THE UNTOUCHABLES 

B. R. AMBEDKAR 

THE 

UNTOUCHABLES 

WHO WERE THEY 
‘AND WHY THEY 
UNTOUCHABLES ° 

BY 
DR. B. R. AMBEDKAR 

AMRIT BOOK CoO., 
CONNAUGHT CIRCUS 
NEW DELHI 

; FIRST PUBLISHED, OCTOBER 1948 

rm em en nr a Re aR RT ee tS A Seen reese 

PRINTED BY AMAR CHANDRA AT RAJHANS PRESS, DELHI. AND PUBLISHED 
BY AMRIT DHAR NULLAY, MG. PROPRIETOR, AMRIT BOOK 50., NEW DELHI 

THE UNTOUCHABLES 

niece to the memory of 

NANDNAR 
RAVIDAS 
CHOKHAMELA 
THREE RENOWNED SAINTS WHO WERE BORN 
AMONG THE UNTOUCHABLES AND WHO 

BY ''HEIR PIETY AND VIRTUE WON THE ESTEEM OF ALL 

CONTENTS 

PREFACE 

PART I 
A Comparative Survey 
Chapter 

I. Untouchability Among Non-Hindus. 
II. Untouchability Among Hindus. 

PART ‘II 
Problem of Habitat, 

III. Why do the Untouchables live outside 

the Village ? 
IV. Are the Untouchables Broken Men’ ? 
V. Are there Parallel cases ? oe 

VI. How did Separate Settlements for Broken 
Men disappear elsewhere ? oe 

PART [III 
Old Theories of the Origin of Untouchability. 

VII. Racial Difference as the —— of seal 
touchability. : ‘4 

VIII. Occupational Origin of Untouchabilty 

PART IV 

New Theories of the Origin of Untouchability. 

IX. Contempt for Buddhism as the Root of 
Untouchability. _... ae es 

X, Beef-eating as the Root of Un- 
touchability. set om sie 

i—Vill 

25 
32. 
35 

39 

43 
65 

71 
80 

XI. 
XII. 

XIII. 
XIV. 

XV. 
XVI. 

INDEX 

PART V 

The New Theories and some Hard Questions. 

Tid the Hindus never Eat Beef ? . 

Why did Non-Brahmins give up 
Beef-eating ? suis “oe Se 

What made the Brahmins’ become 
Vegetarians ? 

Untouchables ? 

Why should Beef-eating make Broken Men 

PART VI 
Untouchability and the Date of its Birth. 

The Impure and The Untouchables. 

When did Broken Men Become Un- 

Untouchables ? 

86 
94 
100 

122 

131 

143 
156 

PREFACE 

This book is a sequel to my treatise called The 
Shudras—Who they were and How they came to be the 
Fourth Varna of the Indo-Aryan Society which was 
published in 1946. Besides the Shudras, the Hindu 
Civilization has produced three social classes whose 

existence has not received the attention it deserves. The 
three classes are :— 

({) The Criminal Tribes who number about 20 
millions or so ; 

(71) The Aboriginal Tribes who number about 15 
millions ; and 

(it) The Untouchables who number about 50 
millions. 

The ‘existence of these classes is an abomination. 
The Hindu Civilization, gauged in the light of these‘ 
social products, could hardly be called civilization. It is/ 
a diabolical contrivance to suppress and enslave humanity.’ 
Its proper name would be Infamy. What else can be 
said of a civilization which has produced a mass of 
people who are taught to accept crime as an approved 
means of earning their livelihood, another mass of people 
who are left to live in full bloom of their primitive 
barbarism in the midst of civilization and a third mass 
of people who are treated as an entity beyond human 

intercourse and whose mere touch is enough to cause 
pollution ? 

In any other country the existence of these classes 
would have led to searching of the heart and to 
investigation of their origin. But neither of these has 
occured to the mind of the Hindu. The reason is simple. 
The Hindu does not regard the existence of these classes 
as a matter of apology or shame and feels no responsibility 
either to atone for it or to inquire into its origin and 
growth. On the other hand, every Hindu is taught to 

il The Untouchables 

believe that his civilization is not only the most ancient 
but that it is also in many respects altogether unique. 
No Hindu ever feels tired of repeating these claims. 
That the Hindu Civilization is the most ancient, one can 
understand and even allow. But it is not quite so easy 
to understand on what grounds they rely for claiming 
that the Hindu Civilization is a unique one. The Hindus 
may not like it, but so far as it strikes non-Hindus, such 
a claim can rest only on one ground. It is the existence 
of these classes for which the Hindu Civilization 1s 
responsible. That the existence of such classes is a unique 
phenomenon, no Hindu need repeat, for nobody can deny 
the fact. One only wishes that the Hindu realized that 
it was a matter for which there was more cause for 
shame than pride. 

The inculcation of these false beliefs in the sanity, 
superiority and sanctity of Hindu Civilization is due 
entirely to the peculiar social psychology of Hindu 
scholars, . 

To-day all scholarship is confined to the Brahmins. 
But unfortunately no Brahamin scholar has so far come 
forward to play the part ofa Voltaire who had the intel- 
lectual honesty to rise against the doctrines of the Catholic 
Church in which he was brought up; nor is one likely 
to appear on the scene in the future. It is a grave 
reflection on the scholarship of the Brahmins that they 
should not have produced a Voltaire. This will not 
cause surprise if it is remembered that the Brahmin 
scholar is only a learned man. He is not an _ intellectual 
There is a world of difference between one who is learned 
and one who is an intellectual. The former is class- 
conscious and is alive to the interests of his class. The 
latter is an emancipated being who is free to act without 
being swayed by class considerations. It is because the 
Brahmins have been only learned men that they have 
not produced a Voltaire. 

Why have the Brahmins not produced a Voltaire ? 
The question can be answered only by another question. 
Why did the Sultan of Turkey not abolish the religion 
of the Mohammedan World ? Why has no Pope denounced 

Preface lil 

Catholicism ? Why has the British Parliament not made 
a law ordering the killing of all blue-eyed babies? The 
reason why the Sultan or the Pope or the British 
Parliament has not done these things is the same as why 
the Brahmins have not been able to produce a Voltaire. 
It must be recognized that the selfish interest of a person 
or of the class to which he belongs always acts as an 
internal limitation which regulates the direction of his, 
intellect. The power and position which the Brahmins‘. 
possess is entirely due to the Hindu Civilization’ which; 
treats them as supermen and subjects the lower asin 
to all sorts of disabilities so that they may never risé 
and challenge or threaten the superiority of the Brahmins 
over them. As is natural, every Brahmin is interested 
in the maintenance of Brahmanic supremacy be he orthodox 
or unorthodox, be he a priest or a grahasta, be he a 
schéiar or not. How can the Brahmins afford to be 
Voltaires ? A Voltaire among the Brahmins would be a 
positive danger to the maintenance of a civilization which 
is contrived to maintain Brahmanic supremacy. The 
point is that the intellect of a Brahmin scholar is severely 
limited by anxiety to preserve his interest. He suffers from 
this internal limitation as a result of which he does not 
allow his intellect full play which honesty and integrity 
demands. For, he fears that it may affect the interests of 
his class and therefore his own. | 

But what annoys one is the intolerance of the 
Brahmin scholar towards any attempt to expose the 
Brahmanic literature. He himself would not play the part 
of an iconoclast even where it is necessary. And he 
would not allow such non-Brahmins as have the capacity 
to do so to play it. If any non-Brahmin were to make 
such an attempt the Brahmin scholars would engage in a 
conspiracy of silence, take no notice of him, condemn 
him outright on some flimsy grounds or dub his work 
useless. As a writer engaged in the exposition of the 
i cigagaa literature I have been a victim of such mean 
tricks. 

Notwithstanding the attitude of the Brahmin 
scholars, I must pursue the task I have undertaken. 

iv . The Untouchables . 
For the origin of these classes is a subject which still awaits 
investigation. This book deals with one of these unfortunate 
classes namely, the Untouchables. The Untouchables are 
the most numerous of the three. Their existence is also 
the most unnatural. And yet there has so far been no 
investigation into their origin. That the Hindus should 
not have undertaken such an investigation is perfectly 
understandable, The old orthodox Hindu does not think 
that there is anything wrong in the observance of 
Untouchability. To him it is a normal and natural thing. 
As such it neither calls for expiation nor _ explanation. 
The new modern Hindu realizes the wrong, But he is 
ashamed to discuss it in public for fear of letting the 
foreigner know that Hindu Civilization can be guilty of such 
a vicious and infamous system or social code as evidenced 
by Untouchability. But what is _ strange is that 
Untouchability should have failed to attract the attention 
of the European student of social institutions. It is 
difficult to understand why. The fact, however, is there. 

This book may, therefore, be taken as a pioneer 
attempt in the exploration of a _ field so completely 
neglected by everybody. The book, if I may say so, deals 
not only with every aspect of the main question set out 
for inquiry, namely, the origin of Untouchability, but it also 
deals with almost all questions connected with it. Some 
of the questions are such that very few people are even 
aware of them; and those who are aware of them are 
puzzled by them and donot know how to answer them. 
To mention only a few, the book deals with such questions 
as: Why do the Untouchables live outside the village ? 
Why did beef-eating. give rise to Untouchability ? 
Did the Hindus never eat beef? Why did non-Brahmins 
give up beef-eating ? What made the Brahmins become 
vegetarians, etc? To each one of these, the book suggests 
an answer. It may be that the answers given in the 
book to these questions are not all-embracing. Nonetheless 
it will be found that the book points to a new way of 
looking at old things. 

The thesis on the origin of Untouchability advanced 
in the book is an altogether novel thesis. It comprises the 
following propositions :— 

Preface Vv 

(1) There is no racial difference between the Hindus 
and the Untouchables ; 

2) The distinction between the Hindus and Un- 
touchables in its. original form, before the 
advent of Untouchability, was the distinction 
between Tribesmen and Broken Men from 
alien Tribes. Itisthe Broken Men who subse- 
quently came to be treated as Untouchables ; 

(3) Just as Untouchability has no racial basis so also 
has it no occupational basis ; 

(4) There are two roots from which Untouchability 
has sprung: 

(a) Contempt and hatred of the Broken Men as 
of Buddhists by the Brahmins; 

(b) Continuation of beef-eaing by the Broken 
Men after it had been given up by others, 

(5) In searching for the origin of Untouchability 
care must be taken to distinguish the Un- 
touchables from the Impure. All orthodox 
Hindu writers have identified the Impure with 
the Untouchables. This is an error. Untouch- 
ables are‘distinct from the Impure. 

(6) While the Impure as a class came into existence 
at the time of the Dharma Sutras the Un- 
touchables came into being much later than 
400 A. D. 

These conclusions are the result of such historieal re- 
search asI have been able to make. The ideal which a 
historian should place before himself has beem well defined 
by Goethe who said? :— 

“The historian’s duty is to separate the true 
from the false, the certain from the uncertain. 
and the doubtful from that which cannot be 
accepted ... ... Every investigator must be- 
ae all things look upon himself as one who 

1.: Maxims and Reflections of Goethe, Nos. 453, 643. 

vi The Untouchables 

is summoned to serve on a jury. He has only 
to consider how far the statement of the case 1s 
complete and clearly set forth by the evidence. 
Then he draws his conclusion and gives his vote, 
whether it be that his opinion coincides with 
that of the foreman or not.” 

There can be no difficulty in giving effect to 
Goethe’s direction when the relevant and necessary facts 
are forthcoming. All this advice is of course very valuable 
and very necessary. But Goethe does not tell what the 
historian is to do when he comes across a missing link, 
when no direct evidence of connected relations between 
important events is available. I mention this because in 
the course of my investigations into the origin of Untouch- 
ability and other inter-connected problems I have been 
confronted with many missing links. It is true that Iam 
not the only one who has ‘been confronted with them. All 
students of ancient Indian history have had to face them. 
For as Mount Stuart Elphinstone has observed in Indian 
history “no date of a public event can be fixed before .the 
invasion of Alexander: and no connected relation of the 
natural transactions can be attempted until ‘after the 
Mohamedan conquest.” This is a sad confession but that 
again does not help. The question is: ‘ What is a student 
of history to do? Is he to cry halt and stop his work 
until the link is discovered?” Ithink not. I believe that 
in such cases it is permissible for him to use his imagina- 
tion and intuition to bridge the gaps left in the chain 
of facts by links not yet discovered and to pro- 
pound a working hypothesis suggesting how facts which 
cannot be connected by known facts might have been 
inter-connected. I must admit that rather than hold up 
the work, I have preferred to resort to this means to 

get over the difficulty created by the missing links which 
have come in my way. 

Critics may use this weakness to condemn the thesis 
as violating the canons of historical research. If such 
be the attitude of the critics I must remind’ them that 
if there is a law which governs the evaluation of the 

Preface Vii 

results of historical results then refusal to accepta thesis 
on the ground that it is based on direct evidence is bad 
law. Instead of concentrating themselves on the issue of 
direct evidence versus inferential evidence and inferential 
evidence versus speculation, what the critics should concern 
themselves with is to examine (7) whether the thesis is 
based on pure conjecture, and (zi) whether the thesis is 
possible and if so does it fit in with facts better than 
mine does ? 

On the first issue I could say that the thesis would 
‘not be unsound merely because in some parts it is based on 
guess. My critics should remember that we are dealing with 
an institution the origin of which is lost in antiquity. The 
_ present attempt to explain the origin of Untouchability is 
not the same as writing history from texts which speak with 
certainty. Itis a case of reconstructing history where there 
are no texts, and if there are, they have no direct bearing on 
the question. In such circumstances what one has to do is 
to strive to divine what the texts conceal or suggest without 
being even quite certain of having found the truth. The task 
is one of gathering survivals of the past, placing them. 
together and making them tell the story of their birth. The! 
task is analogous to that of the archaeologist who constructs a‘ 
city from broken stones or of the palaeontologist who .con- | 
ceives an extinct animal from scattered bones and teeth or of / 
a painter who reads the lines of the horizon and the smallest 
vestiges on the slopés of the hill to make up a scene. In this 
sense the book is a work of art even more than of history. 
, The origin of Untouchability lies buried in a dead past 
/ | which nobody knows. To make it alive is like an attempt 
‘to reclaim to history a city which has been dead since ages 
past and present it as it was in its original condition. It 
cannot but be that imagination and hypothesis should play a 
large part in such a work. But that in itself cannot be a 
ground for the condemnation of the thesis. For without 
trained imagination no scientific inquiry can be fruitful and 
oo is the very soul of science. As Maxim Gorky has 
sald! : 

1. Literature and life. A selection from the writings of Maxim 
Gorky. 

Vili The Untouchables 

“Science and literature have much in common ; 

in both, observation, comparison and study are 
of fundamental importance ; the artist like the 
scientist, needs both imagination and intuition. 
Imagination and intuition bridge the gaps in the 
chain of facts by its as yet undiscovered links 
and permit the scientist to create hypothesis and 
theories which more or less correctly and 
successfully direct the searching of the mind in 
its study of the forms and phenomenon of 
nature. They are of literary creation; the art 
of creating characters and types demands imagina- 
tion, intuition, the ability to make things up in 
one’s own mind”. 

It is therefore unnecessary for me to apolegiee for 
having resorted to constructing links where they were missing. 
Nor can my thesis be said to be vitiated on that account for 
nowhere is the construction of links based on pure conjec- 
ture. The thesis in great part is based on facts and 
inferences from facts. And where it is not based on facts or 
inferences from facts, it is based on circumstantial evidence of 
presumptive character resting on considerable degree of 
probability. There is nothing that I have urged in support 
of my thesis which I have asked my readers to accept on trust. 
I have at least shown that there exists a preponderance of 
probability in favour of what I have asserted. It would be 

|nothing but pedantry to say that a preponderance of 
probability is not a sufficient basis for a valid decision. 

On the second point with the examination of which, I 
said, my critics should concern themselves what I would like 
to say is that I am not so vain as to claim any finality for my 
thesis. I do not ask them to accept it as the last word. Ido 
not wish to influence their judgement. They are of course 
free to come to their own conclusion. All I say to them is 
to consider whether this thesis is not a workable and there- 
fore, for the time being, a valid hypothesis if the test of a 
valid hypothesis is that it should fit in with all surrounding 
facts, explain them and give them a meaning which in its 
absence they do not appear to have. I do not want anything 
more from my critics than a fair and unbiased appraisal. 

January 1, 1948. 

1, Hardinge Avenue, B. R. AMBEDKAR 
New Delhi. 

PART | 

A COMPARATIVE SURVEY. 
Chapter I, Untouchability Among Non-Hindus. 
Chapter II. Untouchability Among Hindus. 

CHAPTER I 

Untouchability Among Non-Hindus 

Who are the Untouchables and what is the origin 
of Untouchability? These are the main topics which it 1s 
sought to investigate and the results of which are contained 
in the following pages. Before launching upon the investi- 
gation it is necessary to deal with certain preliminary 
questions. The first such question is: Are the Hindus 
the only people in the world who observe Untouchability ? 
The second is: If Untouchability is observed by Non 
Hindus -lso how does Untouchability among Hindus 
compare with Untouchability among non-Hindus? Un 
fortunately no such comparative study has so far been 
attempted. The result is that though most people are 
aware of the existence of Untouchability among the 
Hindus they do not know what are its unique features. 
A definite idea of its unique and distinguishing features 
is however essential not merely for a real understanding 
of the position of the Untouchables but also as the best 
means of emphasising the need of investigating into their 
origin. 

It is well to begin by examining how the matter 
stood in Primitive and Ancient Societies, Did they re- 
cognize Untouchability? At the outset it 1s necessary to 
have a clear idea as to what is meant by Untouchability. 
On this point, there can be no difference of opinion. 
It will be agreed on all hands that what underlies, 
Untouchability is the notion of defilement, pollution, ( 
contamination and the ways and means of getting rid of | 
that defilement. : 

Examining the social life of Primitive Society! in 
order to find out whether or noc it recognized Untouch- 
ability in the sense mentioned above there can be no doubt 
that Primitive Society not only did believe in the notion of 
defilement but the belief had given rise to a live system of 

A The facts relating to pollution among non-Hindus are drawn 
from “Hastings Encyclopedia of Religion and Ethics”, Vol. X, Article 
Purification, pp. 455-504. 

4 The Untouchables 

well-defined body of rites and rituals. 

Primitive Man believed that defilement was caused by 
(1) the occurrences of certain events ; 
(2) contact with certain things ; and 
(3) contact with certain persons. 

@ 

Primitive Men also believed in the transmission of 
evil from one person to another. To him the danger of 
such transmission was peculiarly acute at particular times, 
such as the performance of natural functions, eating, 
drinking, etc. Among the events the occurrence of which 
was held by Primitive Man as certain to cause defilement 
were included the following :— 

(1) Birth 

(2) Initiation 
(3) Puberty 

(4) Marriage 

(5) Cohabitation 
(6) Death 

Expectant mothers were regarded as impure and a 
source of defilement to others. The impurity of the 
mother extended to the child also. 

Initiation and puberty are stages which mark the 
introduction of the male and the female to full sexual and 
social life. They were required to observe seclusion, a 
special diet, frequent ablutions, use of pigment for the 
body and bodily mutilation such as circumcision. Among 
the American Tribes not only did the initiates observe a 
special . dietary but also took an emetic at regular intervals. 

The ceremonies which accompanied marriage show that 
marriage was regarded by the Primitive Man as impure. In 
some cases the bride was required to undergo intercourse by 
men of the tribe as in Australia or by the chief or the medicine 
man of the tribe as in America or by the friends of the 
grooms as among the East African Tribes. In some cases 
there takes place the tapping of the bride by a sword by the 
bridegroom. In some cases, as among the Mundas, there 

Untoevchability Among Non-Hindus 5 

‘takes place marriage to a tree before marriage with the bride- 
groom. All these marriage observances are intended to 
neutralize and prepare the individual against the impurity of 
- marriage. 

To the Primitive Man the worst form of pollution was 
death. Not only the corpse, but the possession of the belong- 
ings of the deceased were regarded as infected with pollution. 
- The widespread custom of placing implements, weapons, etc., 
in the grave along with the corpse indicates that their use by 
others was regarded as dangerous and unlucky. 

Turning to pollution arising out of contact with objects 
Primitive Man had learned to regard certain objects as sacred 
and certain others as profane. For a person to touch the 
sacred was to contaminate the sacred and to cause pollution 
to it. A most striking example of the separation of the sacred 
and the profane in Primitive Society is to be found among 
the Todas, the whole of whose elaborate ritual and (it would 
not be too much to say) the whole basis of whose social orga- 
nisation is directed towards securing the ceremonial purity 
of the sacred herds, the sacred dairy, the vessels, and the milk, 
and of those whose duty it is to perform connected rites and 
rituals. In the dairy, the sacred vessels are always kept ina 
separate room and the milk reaches them only by transfer to 
and fro of an intermediate vessel kept in another room. The 
dairyman, who is also the priest, is admitted to office only 
after an elaborate ordination, which in effect is a purification. 
He is thereby removed from the rank of ordinary men toa 
state of fitness for sacred office. His conduct is governed by 
regulations such as those which permit him to sleep in the 
village and only at certain times, or that which entails that a 
dairyman who attends a funeral should cease from that time 
to perform his sacred function. It has, therefore, been conjec- 
‘tured that the aim of much of the ritual is to avert the 
dangers of profanation and prepare or neutralise the sacred 
substance for consumption by those who are themselves 
unclean. . 

The notion of the sacred was not necessarily confined 
to objects. There were certain classes of men who were sacred. 
For a person to touch them was to cause pollution. Among 
‘the Polynesians the tabu character of a Chief is violated by 
the touch of an inferior, although in this case the danger falls 

6 : The Untouchables 

upon the inferior. On the other hand, in Efate the ‘sacred 
man’ who comes into contact with Namin (ceremonial un- 
cleanliness) destroys his sacredness. In Uganda, before build- 
ing a temple, the men were given four days in which to 
— themselves. On the other hand, the Chief and his 

elongings are very often regarded as sacred and, therefore, as 
dangerous to others of an inferior rank. In the Tonga island, 
‘anyone who touches a Chief contacted tabu; it was removed 
by touching. the sole of the foot of a superior chief. The 
sacred quality of the chief in Malaya Peninsula also resided 
in the Royal Regalia and anyone touching it was invited with 
serious illness or death. 

Contact with strange people was also regarded as a 
source of Untouchability by the Primitive Man. Among the 
Bathonga, a tribe in South Africa, it is believed that those 
who travel outside their own country are peculiarly open to 
danger from the influence of foreign spirits and in particular 
from demoniac possession. Strangers are tabu because, wor- 
shipping strange gods, they bring strange influence with them. 
They are, therefore, fumigated or purified in some other way. 
In the Dieri and neighbouring tribes even a member of the 
tribe returning home after a journey was treated as a stranger 
and no notice was taken of him until he sat down. 

The danger of entering a new country is as great as 
that which attaches to those who come from thence. 
In Australia, when one tribe approaches another, the mem- 
bers carry lighted sticks to purify the air, just as the Spartan 
kings in making war had sacred fires from the altar carried 
before them to the frontier. 

In the same manner, those entering a house from the 
outside world were required to perform some ceremony, even 
if it were only to remove their shoes, which would purify 
the incomer from the evil with which otherwise he might 
contaminate those within, while the threshold, door-posts 
and lintel—important as points of contact with outer world— 
are smeared with blood or sprinkled with water when any 
member of household or of the community has become a 
source of pollution, or a horse-shoe is suspended over the 
door to keep out evil and bring goodluck. 

Untouchability Among Non-Hindus a 

Of course,the rites and ceremonies connected with 
birth, death, marriage, etc., do not positively and unequive- 
cally suggest that they were regarded as sources of pollution 
But that pollution is one element among many others is 
indicated by the fact in every case there is segregation. There 
is segregation and isolation in birth, initiation, marriage, 
death and in dealing with the sacred and the strange. 

In birth the mother is segregated. At puberty and initia- 
tion there is segregation and seclusion for a period. In marriage, 
from the time of betrothal until the actual ceremony 
bride and bride groom do not meet. In menstruation a woman 
is subjected to segregation. Segregation is most noticeable in 
the case of death. There is not only isolation of the dead- 
dy but there is isolation of all the relatives of the dead 
from the rest of the community. This segregation is evidenced 
by the growth of hair and nail and wearing of old clothes 
by the relatives of the dead which show that they are not 
served by the rest of the society such as the barber, washer- 
man, etc. The period of segregation and the range of 
segregation differ in the case of death but the fact of 
segregation is beyond dispute. In the case of 
defilement of the sacred by the profane or of defilement 
of the kindred or by intercourse with the non-kindred there 
is also the element of segregation. The profane must keep 
away from the sacred. So the kindred must keep away from 
the non-kindred. It is thus clear that in Primitive Society 
pollution involved segregation of the polluting agent. 

Along with the development of the notion of defile 
ment Primitive Society had developed certain purificatory 
media and purificatory ceremonies for dispelling impurity. 

Among the agents used for dispelling impurity are wate1 
and blood. The sprinkling of water and the sprinkling of 
blood by the person defiled were enough to make him pure. 
Among purificatory rites were included changing of clothes, 
cutting hair, nail, etc., sweat-bath, fire, fumigation, burn- 
ing of incense and fanning with the bough of a tree. 

These were the means of removing impurity. But Pri- 
mitive Society had another method of getting rid of impurity. 
This was to transfer it to another person. It was transferred 
to some one who was already tabu. : | 

8 : The Untouchables 

-In New Zealand, if anyone eandiel the head of another, 
the head being a peculiarly ‘sacred’ part of the body, he 
became tabu. He purified himself by rubbing his hands on 
fernroot, which wasthen eaten by thehead of the family in 
female line. In Tonga, if a man ate tabued food he saved 
himself from the evil consequences by having the toot of a 
chief placed on his stomach. 

The idea of transmission also appears in the custom of 
the scapegoat. In Fiji, a tabued person wiped his hands on 
a pig, which became sacred to the chief, while in Uganda, at 
the end of the period of mourning for a king a ‘scapegoat’ 
along with a cow, a goat, a dog, a fowl and the dust and fire 
from the king’s house was conveyed to the Bunyoro frontier, 
and there the animals were maimed and left todie. This prac- 
tice was held to remove all wncleanliness from the king and 
queen. 

Such are the facts relating to the notion of pollution as 
it prevailed in Primitive Society. 

IT 

Turning to Ancient Society the notion of pollution pre- 
valent therein was not materially different from what was 
prevalent in Primitive Society. There is difference as to the 
sources of pollution. There is difference regarding purificatory 
ceremonies. But barring these differences the pattern of 
pollution and purification in Primitive and Ancient Society 
is the same. 

Comparing the Egyptian system of pollution with the 
Primitive system there is no difference except that in Egypt 
it was practised on an elabprate scale. 

Among the Greeks the causes of impurity were blood- 
shed, the presence of ghost and contact with death, sexual 
intercourse, child-birth, the evacuation of the body, the eat- 
ing of certain food such as pea-soup, cheese and garlic, the 
intrusion of unauthorised persons into holy places, and, in 
certain circumstances, foul speech and quarrelling. The puri- 
ficatory means, usually called Aaopoia by Greeks, were lustral 
water, sulphur, onions, fumigation and fire, incense, certain 
boughs and other vegetative growths, pitch, wool, certain 
stones and amulets, bright things like sunlight and gold, sacri- 
ficed animals, especially the pig and of these specially the 

Untouchability Among Non-Hindus a 

blood. and the skin; finally, certain festivals and- festival - rites. 
particularly the ritual of cursing and the scapegoat. -Qne un- 
usual method was the cutting of the hair fo the polluted per- 
son or sacrificial communion with the deity. 

A striking feature of the Roman notion of pollution and 
purification is to be found in the belief of territorial and com- 
munal pollution and purification. Parallel to the dustratio of 
the house is the periodical purifactory ritual applied to a 
country district (Pagi). The Justractio pagt consisted ina 
religious procession right round its boundaries, with sacrifice. 
There seems to have been in ancient days a similar procession 
round the walls of the city, called amburbium, In historical 
times special purification of the City was carried out when 
acalamity called for it, eg. after the early disasters in the 
Second Punic War. The object of all such expiations was to 
seek reconciliation with the gods. Lustral ceremony accom- 
panied the foundation of acolony. The 7herminalia pro- 
tective of boundaries, and the Compitalia of streets in the 
City were also probably lustral in their origin. Down to the 
late period, priests called Luperci perambulated in the boun- 
daries of the earliest Rome, the settlement on the Palatinate. 
Earlier there was an annual solemn progress round the limits 
of the most ancient territory of the Primitive City. It was 
led by the Archaic priesthood called the Arval brotherhood. 
The ceremony was called ambravalia and it was distinctly 
piacular. When Roman territory was expanded no correspond- 
ing extension of the lustral rite seems ever to have been 
made. These round-about piacular surveys were common else- 
where, inside as well as outside Italy and particularly in 
Greece. The solemn words and prayers of the traditional 
‘chant, duly gone through without slip of tongue, seem to have 
had a sort of magical effect. Any error in the pronounce- 
ment of these forms would involve a need of reparation, just 
as in the earliest Roman legal system, the mispronounciation 
of the established verbal forms would bring loss of the law- 
sult. 

Other forms of quaint ancient ritual were connected 
with the piacular conception. The Salzz, ancient priests of 
Mars, made a journey at certain times round a number of 
stations in the City. They also had a ‘cleaning of the wea- 
pons’ and a ‘cleaning of the trumpets’ which testify to a 

10 The Untouchables 

primitive notion that the efficiency of the army's weapons 
required purification. The ‘washing’ (lustrum) with which 
the census ended was in essence military: for it was connected 
with the Comitia Centuriata, which is merely the army in civil 
garb. Lustratio exercitus was often performed when the army 
was in the field, to remove superstitious dread which some- 
times attacked it’ at other times, it was merely prophylactic 
There was also a lustration of the fleet, 

Like all Primitive people the Hebrews also entertained 
the notion >f defilement. The special feature of their notion 
of defilement was the belief that defilement was also caused by 
contact with the carcass of unclean animals, by eating a 
carcass or by contact with creeping things, or by eating creeping 
things and by contact with animals which are always unclean 
euch as “every beast which divideth the hoof, and is not 
cloven footed, nor cheweth the cud...whatsoever goeth 
upon his pawes, among all manner of beasts that go on all 
four”. Contact with any unclean person was also defilement 
to the Hebrews, Two other special features of the Hebrew 
notion of defilement may be mentioned. The Hebrews believed 
that defilement might be caused to persons by idolatrous prac- 
tices or to a land by the sexual impurities of the people. 

On the basis of this survey, we cat. safely conclude that 
there are no people Primitive or Ancient who did not enter- 
ain the notion of pollution 

CHAPTER II 

Untouchability Among Hindus 

In the matter of pollution there is nothing to 
distinguish the Hindus from the Primitive or Ancient peoples. 
That they recognized pollution is abundantly clear from the 
Manu Smriti. Manu recognises physical defilement and also 
notional defilement. 

Manu treated birth,’ death and menstruation® as sources 
of impurity ; with regard to death, defilement was very ex- 
tensive in its range. It followed the rule of consanguity. 
Death caused defilement to members of the family of the 
dead person technically called Sapindas and Samanodakas.' 
It not only included maternal relatives such as maternal 
uncle* but also remote relatives.> It extended even to non- 
relatives such as (1) teacher’, (2) teacher’s’ son, (3) teacher's® 
wife, (4) pupil, (5) fellow! student, (6) Shrotriya,!! (7) king,!* 
(8) friend,!3 (9) members of the household,’ (10) those who 
carried the corpse,!° and (11) those who touched the corpse.1® 

Anyone within the range of defilement could not 
escape it. There were only certain persons who were exempt. 
In the following verses Manu names them and specifies the 
reasons why he exempts them :—- 

“V. 93. The taint of impurity does not fall on kings 

I, 
a 

ond 

Chapter V. 58, 61-—-63,71,77,79. 
Fa II], 45-46; IV 40-41,57,208 : V. 66,865,108. 

ia 

3. ¥ V. 58,60, 75-77, 83-94. 
4. 9 V. 81. 

b. » V. 4. 

6. re V. 65,80,82 
7. 9 V. 80 

8. ‘s V. 80 

9. . V. 81 
10.—, Vi 

LL. : V. 81 

12. ‘ V. 82 

13. V. 82 

14. oo] V. 81, 

15. ' V. 64.65, 86. 
16. ot V. 64,85. . 

12 The Untouchables 

and those engaged in the performance of a 
vow, or of a Sattra ; for the first are seated on 
the throne of India, and the (last two are) 
ever pure like Brahman. 

94, For a king, on the throne of magnanimity, 
immediate purification is prescribed, and the 
‘reason for that is that he is seated (there) for 
the protection of (his) subjects. | 

95. (The same rule applies to the kinsmen) of 
those who have fallen in a riot or a battle, (of 
those who have been killed) by lightning or by 
the king, and for cows and Brahmins, and 
to those whom the king wishes to be pure 
{in spite of impurity), 

96. ‘A king is an incarnation of the eight guardian 
deities of the world, the Moon, the Fire, the 
Sun, the Wind, Indra, the Lords of wealth and 
water (Kubera and Varuna) and Yama. 

97. Because the king is pervaded by those lords of 

the world, no impurity is ordained for him for 

purity and impurity of mortals is caused and 

removed by those lords of the world,” 
| From this it is clear that the king, the kinsmen of those 
who have fallen ina noble cause as defined by Manu and 
those whom the king chose to exempt were not affected by 
the normal rules of defilement. Manu’s statement that the 
Brahmin was ‘ever pure’ must be understood in its usual 
sense of exhalting the Brahmin above everything. It must 
not be understood to mean that the Brahmin was free from 
defilement. For he was not. Indeed besides being defiled 
by births and deaths the Brahmin also suffered defilement on 
grounds which did not affect the Non-Brahmins. The Manu 
Smriti is full of tabus and don’ts which affect only the Brah- 
mins and which he must observe and failure to observe which 
makes him impure. 

The idea of defilement in Manu is real and not merely 
notional. For he makes the food offered by the polluted 
person unacceptable. 

Manu also prescribes the period of defilement. It varies. 
Fort the death of a Sapinda it is ten days. For children three 

Untouchability Among Hindus 18 

days. For fellow students one day. Defilement does not 
vanish by the mere lapse of the prescribed period. At the’ 
end of the period there must be performed a purificatory 
ceremony appropriate to the occasion. 

For the purposes of purification Manu treats the sub= 
ject of defilement from three aspects : (1) Physical defilement, 
(2) notional or psychological defilement, and (3) ethical 
defilement. The rule! for the purification of ethical defile- 
ment which occurs when a person entertains evil thoughts 
are more admonitions and exhortations. But the rites for the 
removal of notional and physical defilement are the same. 
They include the use of water,? earth? cows urine,‘ the kusa 
grass’ and ashes. Earth, cow’s urine, Kusa grass and ashes 
are prescribed as purifactory agents for removing physical 
impurities caused by the touch of inanimate objects. Water 
is the chief agent for the removal of notional defilement. It 
is used in three ways (1) sipping, (2) bath, and (3) ablution:’ 
Later on panchagavya became the most important agency for. 
removing notional defilement. It consists of a mixture of the 
five products of the cow, namely, milk, urine, dung, curd 
and butter. 

In Manu there is also provision for getting rid ‘of 
defilement by transmission through a scapegoat’ namely by 
touching the cow or looking at the sun after sipping water. | 

Besides the individual pollution the Hindus believe also 
in territorial and communal] pollution and purification very 
much like the system that prevailed among the early Romans. 
Every village has an annual jatva. An animal, generally a he- 
buffalo, is purchased on behalf of the village. The animal is 
taken round the village and is sacrificed, the blood is 
sprinkled round the village and towards the end toe meat 
is distributed among the villagers. Every Hindu, every 
Brahmin even though he may not bea beef eater is bound to 

AS OED AR co oO ee Sree 

pe te 

1. Chapter V. 105-109; 127-128. 

ee V. 1z7, 

V. 184-1386. 

at V. 121, 124. 

as V. 115. 

6 7 V.A11. : 
7. - ¥V.. 148. exe tee eae Se 
8. 7 V. 87, 

Ste oo bo 

14 The Untouchables 

accept his share of the meat. This 1s not mentioned in any 
of the Smritis but it has the sanction of custom which among 
the Hindus is so strong that it always overrides law. 

II 

If one could stop here, one could well say that the 
notion of defilement prevalent among the Hindus is not dif- 
ferent from that which obtained in Primitive and in Ancient 
Societies. But one cannot stop here. For there is another 
form of Untouchability observed by the Hindus which has 
not yet been set out. It is the hereditary Untouchability 
of certain communities. So vast is the list of such commun- 
ities that it would be difficult for an individual with his 
unaided effort to compile an exhaustive list. Fortunately 
such a list was prepared by the Government of India in 1935 
and is attached to the Orders-in-Council issued under the 
Government of India Act of 1935. To this Order-in-Council 
there is attached a Schedule. The Schedule is divided into 
nine parts. One part refers to one province and enumerates 
the castes, races or tribes or parts of or groups within steps 
which are deemed to be Untouchables in that province either 
in the whole of that province or part thereof. The list may 
be taken to be both exhaustive and authentic. To give an 
idea of the vast number of communities which are regarded 
as hereditary Untouchables by the Hindus, I reproduce below 
the list given in the Order-in-Council. 

SCHEDULE 
PART I.—MADRAS 
(1) Scheduled Castes throughout the Province :— 

Adi-Andhra. Chachati. Haddi 
Adi-Dravida. Chakkiliyan. Hasla. 
Adi-Karnataka. Chalavadi. Holeya. 
Ajila. Chamar. Jaggali. 
Arunthuthiyar. Chandala. Jambuvulu. 
Baira. Cheruman. Kalladi. 
Bakuda. Dandasi. Kanakkan. 
Bandi. Devendrakulathan. Kodalo. 
Bariki. Ghasi. Koosa. 
Battada. Godagali. Koraga. 
Savuri. Godari. Kudumkax. 
Bellara. Godda. Kuravan. 

Byagari Gosangi. Madari. 

Untouchability Among Hindus 16 

Madiga. Painda. Raneyar. 
Maila. Paky. Relli. 
Mala. Pallan. Samagara. 
Mala Dasu. Pambada,. Samban. 
Matangi. Pamidi. Sapari. 
Moger. Panchama. Semman. 
Muchi. Paniyan. Thoti. 
Mundala. Panniandi Tiruvalluvar. 
Nalakeyava. Paraiyan. Valluvan. 
Nayadi. Paravan. Valmiki. 
Paga dai. Pulayan. Vettuvan. 
Paidi. Puthirai Vannan. 

(2) Scheduled Castes throughout the Provinces except 
in any special constituency constituted under the Govern- 
ment ot India Act, 1935, for the election of a representative 
of ba:Eward areas and _ backward tribes to the Legislative 
Assembly of the Province :-— 

Arnadan. Kattunayakan, Kuruman. 
Dombo, Kudiya. Malasar. 
Kadan. Kudubi. Mavilan. 
Karimpalan. Kurichchan. Pano. 
PART II.—BOMBAY 
Scheduled Castes :— 
(1) Throughout the Province :— 
Asodi. Dhor. MangGarudi. 
Bakad. Garode. Maghval, or Menghwar. 
Bhambi. Halleer. Mini Madig. 
Bhangi. Halsar, or Haslar. Mukri. 
Chakrawadya-Dasar- Hulsavar. Nadia, 
Chalvadi. Holaya. Shenva. or Shindhbava. 
Chambhar, or Mochi 
gar, or Khalpa. Shinghdav, or Sbingadya 
Samagar. Kolcha, or Kolgha. Sochi. 
Chena-Dasaru. Kohi-Dhor. Timali. 
Chuhar, or Chuhra. Lingader. Turi. 
Dakalern. Madig, or Mang. Vankar. 
Dhed. Mahar. Vitholia, 

Dhegu-Megu. 
(2)Throughout the Province except in the Ahmedabad, 
Kaira, Broach and Panch Mahals and Surat Districts— Mochi. 
(3) In the Kanara district—Kotegar. 

DART ITI.—BENGAL 
Scheduled Castes throughout the Province :— 
Agaria. Bahelia. Bauri. 
Bagdi. Baiti. Bediya. 

‘The Untouchables 

“16 
Beldar. Kadar. Mallah. 
Berua. Kalpahariya. Mech. 
Bhatiya. Kan. Mehtor. 
Bhuimali. Kandh, Muchi. 
Bhuiya. Kandra, Munda. 
Bhumij. Kaora Musahar. 
Bind. Kapuria. Nagesia. 
Binjhia. Karenga. Namasudra& 
Chamar. Kastha. Nat. 
Dhenuar. Kaur. Nuniya. 

Dhoba. Khaira. Oraon. 

Doai. Khatik. Paliya. 

Dom. Koch. Pan. 

Dosadh. Konai. Pasi. 

Garo. Konwar. Patni. 
Ghasi. Kora. Pod. 

Gourhi. . Kotal. Rabha. 

Hadi. Lalbegi. Rajbanshi. 

Hajang. Lodha. Rajwar. 

Halalkhor. Lahor. Santal. 

Hari Mahli. Sunri. 

Ho. | ‘Mal. Tiyar. 

Jalia Kaibartta. Mahar. Turi. . 

Jhalo Malo, or Malo. 
PART IV.—UNITED PROVINCES 

Scheduled Castes :— 
(1) Throughout the Province:— 

Agariva. Bhuiyar. Kanjar. 

Aheriya. Boriya. Kaparlya. 

Badi. . Chamar. Karwal. 

Badhik. Chero. Kharot. 

Baheliya. Dabagar. Kharwar (except 
Benbuu-e) 

Bajaniya. Dhangar. Khatik. 

Bajgi. Whanuk (Bhangi). Kol. 

Balahar. Dharkar. Korwa. 

Balmiki. Dhobi. Lalbegi. 

Banmanus. Dom. Majhwar. 

Bansphor. Domar. Nat. 

Barwar. Gharami. Pankha. 

Basor. Ghasiya. Parahiya. 

Bawariya. Gual. Pasi. 

Beldar. Haburea. Patari. 

Bengali. Hari. Rawat. 

Berya. Hela. Saharya. 

Bhantu. Khairaha. Sanaurhiya. 

Bhuiya. Kalabaz. Sansiya, 

Untouchability Among Hindus 12 

Shilpkar. Turaiha. 

Tharu. 
j (2) Throughout the Province except in the Agra, 
Meerut and Rohilkhand divisions—Kori. 

PART V.—PUNJAB 
Scheduled Castes throughout the Province :— 
Ad Dharmis. Marija, or Marecha. Khatik. 
Bawaria. Bengali. Kori. 
Chamar. Barar. Nat. 
Chuhra, or Balmiki. Bazigar. Pasi. 
Dagi and Koli. Bhanjra. Perna. 
Dumna. Chanal. Sapela. | 
Qd. Dhanak. Sirkiband, 
Sansi. Gagra. Meghs. 
Sarera. Gandhila. Ramdasis. 

PART VI.—BIHAR 

Scheduled Castes :-— 
(1) Throughout the Province :— 

Chamar. Halalkhor. Mochi. 
Chaupal. Hari. Mugahar. 
Dhobi. Kanjar. Nat. 
Dusadh. Kurariar. Pasi. 
Dom. Lalbegi. 

(2) Inthe Patna and Tirhut divisions and the Bhagal- 
pur, Monghyr, Palamau and Purnea districts :— 

Banri. Bhumij. Rajwar. 
Bhogta. Ghasi. Turi. 
Bhuiya. 

Pan. 
(3) In the Dhanbad sub-division of the Manbhum dis- 
trict and the Central Manbhum general rural constituency, 
and the Purulia and Raghunathpur municipalities :-— 

Bauri. Ghasi. Ra)war. 
Bhogta. Pan. Turi. 
Bhuiya. | 
PART VII—CENTRAL PROVINCES AND BERAR 

Scheduled Castes Localities 
Basor, or Burud 
Chamar 
Dom 
i ae ~~ "°° f Dhroughout the Province. 
Mehtar or Bhangi 
Mochi 

Satnami 

18 

Scheduled Castes 
Audhelia : 
Bahna - 
Balahi, or alan 

Bedar 
Chadar 
Chauhan 
Dahayat 
Dewar 

Dhanuk 
Dhimar 
Dhobi 
Dohor 

Ghasia 

Qoliya 
Jangam 
Kaikari 

Katia 

Khangar 

Khatik 

Koli 
Kori 

.. , The, Untouchables 

Localities 

In the Bilaspur district. 

In the Amraoti district. 

In the Berar division and the Balaghat, Bhan- 
dara, Betul, Chanda, Chhindwara, Hoshanga- 
bad, Jubbulpore, Mandla, Nagpur, Nimar, 
Saugor and Wardha districts. 

In the Akola, Amroati, and Buldana districts. 

In the Bhandara and Saugor districts. 

In the Drug district. 

In the Damoh sub-division of the Saugor district. 

In the Bilaspur, Drug and Raipur districts. 

In the Saugor district, except in the Damoh 
sub-division thereof. : 

In the Bhandara district. ; 

In the Bhandara, Bilaspur, Raipur and Saugor 
districts, and the Hoshangabad and Seoni- 
Malwa tahsils of the Hoshangabad district. 

In the Berar division and the Balaghat, Bhan- 
dara, Chanda, Nagpur and Wardha dis- 
tricts, 

In the Berar division and in the Balaghat, 
Bhandara, Bilaspur, Chanda, Drug, Nagpur, 
Raipur and Wardha districts. 

In the Balaghat and Bhandara districts. 

In the Bhandara district. 

In the Berar division, and in Bhandara, Chanda, 
Nagpur and Wardha districts. 

In the Berar division, in the Balaghat, Betul, 
Bhandara, Bilaspur, Chanda, Drug, Nagpur, 
Nimar, Raipur and Wardha districts, in the 
Hoshangabad and Seoni-Malwa_tahsils of the 
Hoshangabad district, in the Chhindwara 
district, except in the Seoni sub-division 
thereof, and in the Saugor district, except in 
the Damoh sub-division thereof. 

In the Bhandara, Buldana and Saugor districts 
and the Hoshangabad and Seoni Malwa tabails 
of the Hoshangahad district. 

Inthe Berar division, inthe Balaghat, Bhan- 
‘dara, Chanda, Nagpur and Wardha districts, 
in the Hoshangabad tahsil of the Hoshangabad 
district, inthe Chhindwara district, except 
in the Seoni sub-division thereof, and in the 
Saugor district, except in the Damoh sub- 
division thereof. 

In the Bhandara and Chanda districts. 

Inthe Amraoti, Balaghat. Betul, Bhandara, 
Buldana. Chhindwara, J nhbulpore, Mandla_ 
Nimar, Raipur and Saugor districts, and in. 

Kumbar 

Madgi 

Mala 

Mehra, or Mahar 

Nagar. bi 
Ojha 

Panka 

Pardhi 

Pradhan 

Rujjhar 

Untouchability Among Hindus 19 
Scheduled Castes 

Localities 
the Hoshangabad district, except in the Harda 
and Sohagpur tahsils thereof. 

In the Bhandara and Saugor districts and the 
Hoshangabad and Seoni-Malwa_tahsils of the 
Hoshangabad district. 

Inthe Berar division and in the Balaghat, 
Bhandara Chanda, Nagpur and Wardha 
districts. 

In the Balaghat, Betul, Chhindwara, Hoshanga- 
bad, Jubbulpore Mandla. Nimar and Saugor 
districts. 

Throughout the Province, except in the Harda 
and Sohagpur tahsils of the Hoshangahad 
district. 

In the Balaghat, Bhandara, Chhindwara, 
Mandla, Nagpur and Raipur districts. 

In the Balaghat, Bhandara and Mandla districts 
and the Hoshangabad tahsil of the Hoshanga- 
bad district. 

In the Berar division, in the Baloghat, Bhan- 
dara, Bilaspur, Chanda, Druz, Nagpur, Raipur, 
Saugor and Wardha districts and in the 
Chhindwara district, except in the Seoni sub- 
division thereof. 

In the Narsinghpura sub-division of the 
Hoshangabad district. 

In the Berar division, in the Bhandara, Chanda, 
Nagpur, Nimar, Raipur and Wardha districts 
and in the Chhindwara district, except in the 
Seoni sub-division thereof. 

Inthe Sohagpur tahsil of the Hoshangabad 
district. 

PART VIII.—ASSAM 

Scheduled Castes :— 
(1) In the Assam Valley :— 

Namasudra. Hira. 
Kaibartta. Lalbegi. 
Bania, or Brittial- 

Bania. 

(2) In the Surma Valley :— 
Mali. or Bhuimali. Sutradhar. 

Dhupi, or Dhobi. Muchi. 
Duala, or Dholi. Patni. 
Jhalo and Malo, Namasudra. 

Mahara. 

Mehtar, or Bhangi. 
Bansphor. 

Kaibartta, or Jaliya. 
Lalbegi. 

Mehtar, or Bhangi. 
Bansphor. 

| 

20 The Untouchables 

PART IX.—ORISSA 

Scheduled Castes :— 

(1) Throughout the Province :-— 
Adi-Andhra. Godra. Mangan. 
Audhelia. Gokha. Mehra, or Mahar, 
Bariki. Aladdi, or Hari. Mehtar, or Bhangi. 
Basor, or Burud. Trika. Mochi, or Muchi. 
Bavuri. Jaggali. Paidi. 
Chachati. Kandra. Painda. 
Chamar. ' Katia. Pamidi. 
Chandala. Kela. | Panchama. 
Dandasi. Kodalo. Panka. 
Dewar. Madari. Relli. 
Dhoba or Dhobi. Madiga. Sapari. 
Ganda. Mahnria. Satnami. 
Ghusuria. Mala. Siyal. 
Godagali. Mang. Valiniki. 
Godari. 

(2) Throughout the Province except in the Khondmals 
district, the district of Sambalpur and the areas transterred 
to Orissa under the provisions of the Government of India 
(Constitution of Orissa) Order, 1936, from the Vizagapatam 
and Ganjam Agencies in the Presidency of Madras :— 

Pan, or Pano. 

(3) Throughout the Province except in the Khondmals 
district and the areas so transferred to Orissa from the said 
Agencies :— 

Dom, or Dambo. 

(4) Throughout the Province except in the district of 
Sambalpur :— 

Bauro, Bhuii). Turi. 
Bhuiya. (thasi, or Ghasia. 

(5) In the Nawapara sub-division of the district of 
Sambalpur :— ' 

Kori. Nagarchi. Pradhan. 

This is a very terrifying list. It includes 429 commu- 
nities. Reduced to numbers it means that today there exist 
in India 50-60 millions of people whose mere touch causes 
pollution to the Hindus. Surely, the phenomenon of 
Untouchability among primitive and ancient society pales 

|into insignificance before this phenomenon of hereditary 

Untouchability Among Hindus 91 

Untouchability for so many millions of people which we find in 
India. This type of Untouchability among Hindus stands in a 
class by itself. It has no parallel in the history of the world. It 

‘is unparalleled not merely by reason of the colossal numbers 
involved which exceed the number of great many nations in 
Asia and in Europe but also on other grounds. 

There are some striking features of the Hindu system of 
Untouchability affecting the 429 Untochable communities 
which are not to be found in the custom of Untochability as 
cbserved by Non-Hindu communities, primitive or ancient. 

The isolation prescribed by Non-Hindu societies as a 
safeguard against defilement, if it is not rational, is at least 
understandable. It is for specified reasons such as birth. 
marriage, death, etc. But the isolation prescribed by Hindu 
st tlety 1s apparently for no cause. 

Defilement as observed by the Primitive Society was of 
a temporary duration which arose during particular times 
such as the performance of natural functions, eating, drinking, 
etc., or a natural crisis in the life of the individual such as 
birth, death, menstruation, etc. After the period of defilement 
-was over and after the purifactory ceremonies were performed 
the defilement vanished and the individual became pure and 
.associable. But the impurity of the 50-60 millions of the 
Untouchables of India, quite unlike the impurity arising fram 
birth, death, etc., is permanent. The Hindus whotouch them 
‘and become polluted thereby can become pure by undergoing 
-purifactory ceremonies. But there is nothing which can make 
the Untouchables pure. They are born impure, they are 
impure while they live, they die the death of the impure, 
and they give birth to children who are born with the stigma 
of Untouchability affixed to them. It is a case of permanent, 
heieditary stain which nothing can cleanse. 

In the third place, Non-Hindu societies which believed 
in defilement isolated the individuals affected or at the mest 
those closely connected with them. But the Untouchability 
among the Hindus involves the isolation of a class—a class 
which today numbers about 50 to 60 million people. 

In the fourth place, Non-Hindu societies only isolated 
the affected individuals. They did not segregate them in 
separate quarters. The Hindu society insists on segregation 

99 The Untouchables 

of the Untouchables. The Hindu will notlivein the quarters of 
the Untouchables and will not allow the Untouchables to 
live inside Hindu quarters. This is a fundamental feature 
-of Uacouchability as it is practised by the Hindus. It 
-is not acase of social separation, a mere stoppage of social 
, intercourse for a temporary period. It is a case of territorial 
‘segregation and of a cordon sanitaire putting the impure 
‘people inside a barbed wire into a sort of acage. Every 
Hindu village has a ghetto. The Hindus live in the village 
and the Untouchables in the ghetto. 

Such is the Hindu system of Untouchability. Who can 
deny that it is not altogether different from what is found to 
exist among Non-Hindu societies? That Untouchability among 
Hindus is a unique phenomenon is beyond question. Persons 
were treated by non-Hindu communities as impure but as 
individuals. Never a whole class was treated as impure. But 
their impurity was of a temporary duration and was curable 
by the performance of some purifactory rites. There has 
never been acase of permanent impurity based on the rule 
‘once impure always impure’. Persons were treated as impure 
by Non-Hindu Communities and they were even cut off from 
social intercourse. But there has never been a case of persons 
having been put into permanent segregation camps. A whole 
body of people have been treated as impure by Non-Hindu 
communities. But they were strangers outside the fold of 
the kindred. There has never been a case of a people 
treating a section of their own people as permanently and 
hereditarily impure. 

Untouchability among Hindus is thus a unique pheno- 
menon, unknown to humanity in other parts of the world, 
Nothing like it 1s to be found in any other society — 
primitive, ancient or modern. The many problems that arise 
out ‘of a study of Untouchability and which call foc 
investigation may be reduced to two: 

(1) Why do the Untouchables live outside the 
village ? 

(2) What made their impurity permanent, and 
ineradicable ? 

The following pages are devoted to finding answers to 
these two questions. / 

PART Il 

PROBLEM OF HABITAT 

Chapter II —Why do the Untouchables live outside the village ? 
Chapter [V—Are the Untouchables Broken Men ? 
Chapter V—Are there Parillel cases ? 

Chapter VI—How did Separate Settlements for Broken Men 
isappear elsewhere ? 

CHAPTER III 

Why Do the Untouchables Live Outside the Village ? 

That the Untouchables live outside the village is so 
notorious a fact that it must be taken to be within the 
cognizance even of those whose knowledge about them is not 
very profound. Yet, nobody has thought that this was a 
serious question calling for satisfactory answer. How did 
the Untouchables come to live outside the village? Were 
they declared to be Untouchables first and then deported 
out of the village and made to live outside? Or were they 
f-om the very beginning living outside the village and were 
subsequently declared to be Untouchables? If the answer 
is that they were living outside the village from the verv 
beginning, there arises a further question, namely, what can 
be the reason for it ? 

As the question of the separate settlement of the Un- 
touchables has never been raised before, naturally there exists 
no theory as to how the Untouchables came to live outside 
the village. There is, of course, the view of the Hindu 
Shastras and if one wants to dignify it by calling it a theory 
one may doso. The Shastras of course say thatthe Antyajas 
should live and have their abode outside the village. For 
instance, Manu says: 

“Xx. 57. But the dwellings of the Chandalas and the 
Shvapakas shall be outside the village, they 
must be made Apapatras and their wealth 
(shall be) dogs and donkeys. 

X.52. Their dress (shall be) the garments of the dead 
(they shall eat) their food from broken dishes, 
black iron (shall be) their ornaments and they 
must always wander from place to place. 

X. 53. Aman who fulfils a religious duty, shall not 
seek intercourse with them; their transactions 
(shall be) among themselves and their 
marriages with their equals. 

X.54. Their food shall be given to them by others 
(than an Aryan giver) in a broken dish; at 

36 The Untouchables 

night they shall not walk about in village and 
in towns. 

X. 55. By day they may go about for the purpose of 
their work, distinguished by marks at king’s 
command, and they shall carry out the corpses 
(of persons) who have no relatives; that is a 
settled rule. 

X. 56. By the King’s order they shall always execute 
the criminals, in accordance with the law, and 
they shall take for themselves the clothes, the 
beds, and the ornaments of (such) criminals.” 

But what conclusion can one draw from these state- 
ments of the Shastras? They are capable of double interpreta- 
tion. When the Shastras say that the Untouchables should 
stay outside the village, they may be purporting to say no more 
than that the Untouchables should stay where they have been 
staying, i.e. outside the village. This is one interpretation. The 
second interpretation is that those who are declared Untoucha- 
bles should not be allowed to stay inside the village but should 
be required to go out of the village and live outside. Follow- 
ing up the alternate interpretations of the Shastras there are 
two different possibilities which call for consideration. One is 
that the Untouchability has nothing to do with the Untoucha- 
bles living outside the village. From the very beginning they 
lived outside the village. Thereafter when the stigma of Un- 
touchability fell on them they were prohibited from coming to 
live inside the village. The other possibility is that Untoucha- 
bility has everything to do with the Untouchables, living out- 
side the village. In other words, the Untouchables originally 
lived inside the village and that thereafter when the stigma 
of untouchability fell on them they were forced to vacate 
and live outside the village. 

Which of the two possibilities is more acceptable? 

The second possibility is on the face of it absurd 
and fantastic. One argument is quite enough to expose its 
absurdity. The phenomenon we are discussing is not con- 
fined toa single village or single area. It exists all over 
India. The transplantation of the Untouchables from 
within the village to outside the village is a vast operation. 
How and who could have carried on an operation of such 

Why Do the Untouchables Live Outside the Village ? 27 

colossal dimensions? It could not have been carried out 
except by the command of an Emperor having his sway over 
the whole of India. Even to him such a transplantation 
would have been impossible. But possible and impossible 
it can only be the work of an Emperor. Who is the Emperor 
to whom the credit or discredit of this task can be assigned? 
Obviously, India had no Emperor to perform this task.’ If 
there was no Emperor to do the transplantation, then the 
second possibility must be abandoned. 

That those who are called Untouchables lived outside 
the village from the very beginning even before they became | 

Untouchables and that they continued to live outside the | 

village because of the supervention of untouchability ata later i 
stax: is the only possibility worth consideration. But this: 
raises a very difficult question: Why did they live outside 
the village? What made them or forced them to do so? The 
answer is that having regard to the factors which are known 
to students of Sociology to have influenced the transformation 
of Primitive Society into Modern Society all over the world 
it is only natural to suppose that the Untouchables should 
have from the beginning lived outside the village. 

Not many will realise why this is natural without some 
explanation of the factors which have affected the condition 
of Primitive Society into Modern Society. For a clear under- 
standing of the matter it is necessary to bear in mind that 
Modern Society differs from Primitive Society in two respects. 
Primitive Society consisted of nomadic communities while 
Modern Society consists of settled communities. Secondly, 
Primitive Society consisted of tribal communities based 
on blood relationship. Modern Society consists of local com- 
municies based on territorial attiliation. In other words there 
are two lines of evolution along which Primitive Society has 
proceeded before it became transformed into Modern Society. 
One line of evolution has led the Primitive Society to become 
a territorial community from being a tribal community. There 
‘can be no doubt that such a change has taken place. Clear 
traces of the change are to be seen in the official style of 
kings. Take the style of the English kings. King John was 
the first to call himself the king of England. His predecessors 
commonly called themselves kings of the English. The former 
represent a territorial community. The latter represent a tribal 

28 The Untouchables 

community. England was once the country which Englishmen 
inhabited. | Englishmen are now the people who inhabit 
England, The same transformation can be seen to have taken 
place in the style of the French kings who were once called 
kings of the Franks and later as kings of France. The second 
line of evolution had led Primitive Society to become a settled 
community instead of the Nomadic community which it was. 
Here again, the change is so definite and so impressive that no 
illustration is required to convince anybody of its reality. 

For the purpose in hand all we need is to confine our- 
selves to a consideration of the second line of evolution. How 
did Primitive Society become a settled community? The 
story of how Primitive Society becamea settled community 
is too long to be detailed in a chapter—much too long to be 
compressed in a section thereof. It is enough to note two 
things. The first thing to understand is what made Primitive 
Society give up its nomadic life and secondly what happened 
in the transition from nomadic to settled life. 

Primitive Society was no doubt nomadic. But it was 
nomadic not because of any migratory instinct. Nor was it 
due to any mental trait peculiar to it. It was the result of the 
fact that the earliest form of the wealth held by Primitive 
Society was cattle. Primitive Society was migratory because 
its wealth, namely the cattle, was migratory. Cattle went 
after new pastures. Primitive Society by reason of its love 
for cattle, therefore, went wherever its cattle carried it. 
Primitive Society became fixed in its abode, in other words 
became a settledcommunity, when a new species of wealth was 
discovered. This new species of wealth was land. This hap- 
pened when Primitive Society learned the art of farming 
and of cultivating land. Wealth became fixed at one 
place when it changed its form from cattle to land. With this 
change Primitive Society also becamesettled at the same place. 

This explains why Primitive Society was at one time 
nomadic and what led it take to settled life. 

The next thing is to note the events that have happened 
when Primitive Society was on the road to becoming a Settled 
Society. The problems which faced Primitive Society in its tran- 

ition from Nomadic life to Settled life were mainly two. One 
confronted the Settled commvnity. The other confronted the 

Why Do the Untouchables Live Ontside the Village ? 99 

Broken men. The problem that confronted the Settled 
community was that of its defence against the Nomadic tribes. 
The problem which confronted the Broken men was that of 
the protection and shelter. It may be desirable to elucidate 
how and why these problems arose. 

For an understanding of the problem which 
confronted the Settled tribes, it is necessary to bear in 
mind the following facts. All tribes did not take 
to settled life at one and the same time. Some became settled 
and some remained nomadic. The second thing to remember 
is that the tribes were never at peace with one another. They 
we. e always at war. When all tribes were in a Nomadic state 
the chief causes for intra-tribal warfare were (1) stealing 
cattle, (2) stealing women, and (3) stealthily grazing of cattle 
in the pastures belonging to other tribes. When some tribes 
became settled the tribes that remained nomadic found it 
more advantageous to concentrate their fight against the 
settled tribes. It was more paying than a war against other 
Nomadic tribes. The Nomadic tribes had come to realize that 
the Settled tribes were doubly wealthy. Like the Nomadic 
tribes, they had cattle. But in addition to cattle, they had 
corn which the Nomadic tribes had not and which they great- 
ly coveted. The Nomadic tribes systematically organized 
raids on the Settled tribes with the object of stealing the 
wealth belonging to the Settled tribes. The third fact is that 
the Settled tribes were greatly handicapped in defending 
themselves against these raiders. Being engaged in more 
gainful occupation, the Settled trives could not always 
convert their ploughs into swords. Nor could they leave their 
homes and go in pursuit of the raiding tribes. There is noth- 
ing strange in this. History shows that peoples with civiliza- 
tion but no means of defence are not able to withstand 
the attacks of the barbarians. Thisexplains how and why 
during the transition period the Settled tribes were faced with 
the problem of their defence. 

How the problem of the Broken men arose is not diffi- 
cult to understand. It is the result of the continuous tribal 
warfare which was the normal life of the tribes in their 
primitive condition. In a tribal war it often happened that a, 
tribe instead of being completely annihilated was defeated and! 
routed. In many cases a defeated tribe became broken into 

80 The Untouchables 

bits. As a consequence of this there always existed in Primi- 
tive times a floating population consisting of groups of Broken 
tribesmen roaming in all directions. To understand what 
gave rise to the problem of the Broken men it is necessary to 
realize that Primitive Society was fundamentally tribal in its 
organization. That Primitive Society was fundamentally 
tribal meant two things. Firstly, every individual in Primi- 
tive Society belonged to a tribe. Nay, he must belong to the 
tribe. Outside the tribe no individual had any existence. He 
could have none. Secondly, tribal organization being based 
on common blood and common kinship an individual born in 
one-tribe could not join another tribe and become a member 
of it. The Broken Men had, therefore, to live as stray indivi- 
duals. In Primitive Society where tribe was fighting against 
tribe a stray collection of Broken Men was always in danger of 
being attacked. They did not know where to go for shelter. 
They did not know who would attack them and to whom they 
could go for protection. That is why shelter and protection 
became the problem of the Broken Men. 

The foregoing summary of the evolution of Primitive 
Society shows that there was a time in the life of Primitive 
Society when there existed two groups — one group consis- 
tins of Settled tribes faced with the problem of finding a body 
of men who would do the work of watch and ward against 
the raiders belonging to Nomadic tribes and the other group 
consisting of Broken Men from defeated tribes with the 
— of finding patrons who would give them food and 
shelter. 

The next question is: How did these two groups solve 
their problems? Although we have no written text of a con- 
tract coming down to us from antiquity we can say that the 
two struck a bargain whereby the Broken Men agreed to do 
the work of watch and ward for the Settled tribes and the 
Settled tribes agreed to give them food and shelter. Indeed, 
it would have been unnatural if such an arrangement had not 
been made between the two especially when the interest of 
the one required the co-operation of the other. 

One difficulty, however, must have arisen in the comple- 
tion of the bargain. that of shelter. Where were the Broken 
. Men to live? In the midst of the settled community or outside 
the Settled community? In deciding this question two con- 

Why Do the Untouchables Live Outside the Village ? $1 

siderations must have played a decisive part. One considera- 
tion is that of blood relationship. The second consideration 
is that of strategy. According to Primitive notions only 
persons of the same tribe, i.e. of the same blood, could live 
together. An alien could not be admitted inside the area occu- 
pied by the homesteads belonging to the tribe. The Broken 
men were aliens. They belonged to a tribe which was diffe- 
rent from the Settled tribe. That being so,-they could not 
be permitted to live in the midst of the Settled tribe. From 
the strategic point of view also it was desirable that these 
Broken men should live on the border of the village so as to meet 
the raidsof the hostile tribes. Both these considerations were 
decisiv.infavour of placing their quarters outside the village. 

We can now return to the main question, namely, why 
do the Untouchables live outside the village? The answer to 
the question can be sought along the lines indicated above. The 
same processes must have taken place in India when the 
Hindu Society was passing from Nomadic life to the life of a 
settled viJlage community. There must have been in Primi- 
tive Hindu society, Settled tribes and Broken Men. The 
Settled tribes founded the village and formed the village com- 
munity and the Broken Men lived in separate quarters outside 
the village for the reason that they belonged toa different tribe © 
and, therefore, to different blood. To put it definitely, the 
Untouchables were originally only Broken Men. It is because 
they were Broken Men that they lived outside the village. 

This explains why it is natural to suppose that the Un- 
touchables from the very beginning lived outside and that 
Untouchability has nothing co do with their living outside 
the village. 

The theory is so novel that critics may not feel satisfied 
without further questioning. They will ask: 

(1) Is there any factual evidence to suggest that the 
Untouchables are Broken Men ? 

(2) Is there evidence that the process of settlement 
suggested above has actually taken place in any 
country ? 

(3) If Broken Men living outside the village is a 
universal feature of all societies, how is it that 
the separate quarters of the Broken Men have 
disappeared outside India but not in India? 

CHAPTER IV 

Are the Untouchables Broken Men ? 

Tothe question Are the Untouchables in their origin 
only Broken Men, my answer is in the affirmative. An affir- 
mative answer is bound to be followed by a call for evidence. 
Direct evidence on this issue could be had if the totems of 
the Touchables and the Untouchables in the Hindu villages 
had been studied. Unfortunately the study of the totemic orga- 
nization of the Hindus and the Untouchables has not yet 
been undertaken by students of anthropology. When such 
data is collected it would enable us to give a decisive opinion 
on the question raised in this Chapter. For the present, I 
am satisfied from. such inquiries as I have made that the 
totems of the Untouchables of a particular village differ from 
the totems of the Hindus of the village. : 

Difference in totems between Hindus and Untouch- 
ables would be the best evidence in support of the thesis that 
the Untouchables are Broken Men belonging to a tribe 
different from the tribe comprising the village community. 
It may, however, be admitted that such direct evidence as has 
a bearing on the question remains to be collected. But facts 
have survived which serve as pointers and from which it can 
be said that the Untouchables were Broken men. There are 
two sets of such evidentiary facts. — 

One set of facts comprise the names Antya, Antyaja and 
Antyavasin given to certain communities by the Hindu 
Shastras. They have come down from very ancient past. 
Why were these names used to indicate a certain class of 
people? There seem to be some meaning behind these 
terms. The words are undoubtedly derivative. They are 
derived from the root Anta. What does the word Anta 
mean? Hindus learned in the Shastras argue that it means 
one who is born last and as the Untouchable according to 
the Hindu order of Divine creation is held to be born last, 
the word Antya means an Untouchable. The argument is 
absurd and does not accord with the Hindu theory of the 
order of creation. According to it, it is the Shudra who is 

Are the Untouchables Broken Men ? 88 

born last. The Untouchable is outside the scheme of crea- 
tion. The Shudra is Savarna. As against him the Untouch- 
able is Avarna, 1t.e. outside the Varna system. The Hindu 
theory of priority in creation does not and cannot apply to 
the Untouchable. In my view, the word Antya means not 
end of creation but end of the village. Itis a name given to 
those people who lived on the outskirts of the village. The 
word Antya has, therefore, a survival value. It tells us that 
there was a time when some people lived inside the village 
and some lived outside the village and that those who lived 
outside the village, t.e. on the Aztya of the village, were 
called Antyaja. | 

Why did some people live on the border of the 
village? Can there be any other reason than that they were 
Broken Men who were aliens and who belonged to tribes 
ditferent from those who lived inside the village? I cannot 
see any. That this is the real reason is to be found in the 
use of these particular words to designate them. The use of 
the words Antya, Antyaja and Antyavasin has thus double 
significance. In the first place, it shows that living in sepa- 
rate quarters was such a peculiar phenomenon that a new 
terminology had to be invented to give expression to it 
Secondly, the words chosen express in exact terms the condi 
tions of the people to whom it applied namelv that they 
were aliens. 

The second set of facts which shows that the Untouch- 
ables were Broken men relates to the position of a commu- 
nity called the Mahars. The Mahar community is a principle 
Untouchable community in Maharashtra. It is the single 
largest Untouchable community found in Maharashtra. The 
following facts showing the relations between the Mahars 
and the Touchable Hindus are worthy of note: (1) The 
Mahars are to be found in every village; (2) Every village in 
Maharashtra has a wall and the Mahars have their quarters 
outside the wall; (3) The Mahars by turn do the duty of 
watch and ward on behalf of the village; and (4) The Mahars 
claim 52 rights against the Hindu villagers. Among these 52 
rights the most important are :— 

(i) The right to collect food from the villagers ; 

34 The Untouchables 

(ii) The right to collect corn from each villager at 
the harvest season ; and 

(iii) The right to appropriate the dead animal 
belonging to the villagers. 

The evidence arising from the position of the Mahars 
is of course confined to Maharastra. Whether similar cases 
are to be found in other parts of India has yet to be investi- 
gated. But if the Mahars case can be taken as typical of the 
Untouchables throughout India it will be accepted that there 
was a stage in the history of India when Broken Men belong- 
ing to other tribes came to the Settled tribes and made a 
bargain whereby the Broken men were allowed to settle on 
the border of the village, were required to do certain duties 
and in return were given certain rights. The Mahars have a 
tradition that the 52 rights claimed by them against the 
villagers were given to them by the Muslim kings of Bedar. 
This can only mean that these rights were very ancient and 
that the kings of Bedar only confirmed them. 

These facts although meagre do furnish some evidence 
in support of the theory that the Untouchables lived outside 
_ the village from the very beginning. They were not deport- 
ed and made to live outside the village because they were 
declared Untouchables. They lived outside the village from 
the beginning becaizse they were Broken Men who belonged 
to a tribe different from the one to which the Settled tribe 
belonged. | 

The difficulty in accepting this explanation arises 
largely from the notion that the Untouchables were always 
Untouchables. This difficulty will vanish if it is borne in 
mind that there was a time when the ancestors of the present 
day Untouchables were not Untouchables vis-a-vis the vill- 
agers but were merely Broken Men, no more and no less, and 
the only difference between them and the villagers was that 
they belonged to different tribes. 

CHAPTER V 
Are There Parallel Cases ? 

Are there any cases known to history of Broken Men 
living outside the village? To this question it is possible to 
give an affirmative answer. Fortunately for us we have two 
reported cases which show that what is said to have 
occurred in India particularly has also actually occurred 
elsewhere. The countries wherein such a development has 

actually been reported to have taken place are Ireland and 
Wa! 2s. 

The organization of the Irish village in primitive times 
can be seen from the Brehon Laws of Ireland. Some idea of 
it as revealed in these Laws may be obtained from the 
following summary given by Sir Henry Maine. Says Sir 
Henry Maine’ :— 

“The Brehon Law discloses a stage when the 
tribe has long been settled, in all probability 
upon the tribal territory. It is of sufficient size 
and importance to constitute a political unit, and 
possibly at its apex is one of the numerous chief- 
tain whom the Irish records call kings. The 
primary assumption is that the whole of the 
tribal territory belongs to the whole of the tribe, 
but in fact large portions of it have been perma- 
nently appropriated to minor bodies of tribes- 
men. A partis allotted in a special way to the 
chief as appurtenant to his office, and descends 
from chief to chief according to a special rule of 
succession. Other portions are occupied by 
fragments of the tribe, some of which are under 
minor chiefs while others, though not strictly 
ruled by a chief, have somebody of noble class to 
act as their representative. All the unappropri- 
ated tribelands are in a more special way the 
property of the tribe as a whole, and no portion 
can theoretically be subjected to more than a 

1. Early History of Institutions, Lecture [II, pp. 92-98. 

86 ‘The Untouchables 
temporary occupation. Such occupations are, 
however, frequent and among the holders of 
tribeland, on these terms, are groups of men call- 
ing themselves tribesmen, but being in reality 
associations formed by contract, chiefly for the 
purpose of pasturing cattle. Much of the com- 
mon tribeland is not occupied at all, but consti- 
tutes, to use the English expression, the ‘waste’ 
of the tribe. Still this waste is constantly brought 
under tillage or permanent pasture by settle- 
ments of tribesmen, and upon it cultivators and 
servile states are permitted to squat, particularly 
towards the border. Itis part of the territory 
over which the authority of the chief tends 
steadily to increase, and here it is that he settles 
his ‘fuidhir’ or stranger—tenants a very tmport- 
ant class—the outlaws and ‘broken men’ from 
other tribes who come to him for protection, and 
who are only connected with their new tribe by 
their dependence on its chief, and through the 
responsibility which he incurs for them”. 

Who were the Fuidhirs? According to Sir Henry 
Maine the Fuidhirs were: 

“Strangers or fugitives from other territories, 
men in fact, who had broken the original tribal 
bond which gave them a place in the community, 
and who had to obtain and then as best they 
might ina new tribe and new place. Society 
was violently disordered. The result was proba- 
bly to fill the country with ‘Broken Men’ and 
such men could only find a home and protection 
by becoming Fuidhir tenants. 

“The Fuidhir was not a tribesman but an alien. 
In all societies cemented together by kinship the 
position of the person who has lost or broken 
the bond of union is always extraordinarily mise- 
rable. He has not only lost his natural place in 
— but they have no room for him anywhere 
else”. 

Are There Paralel Cases ? 37 
II 

Now as to Wales. The organization of the Welsh 
village in primitive times is described by Mr. Seebhom. 

According to Mr. Seebhom a village in Wales was a collec- 
tion of homesteads. The homesteads were separated into two 
groups, the homesteads of the Free-tenants and the home- 

steads of the Unfree-tenants. Mr. Seebhom says that this 
separation in habitation was a common feature of the primi- 
tiv village in Wales. Why were these Unfree-tenants made 
to live in a sepaate and detached placc? The oreason for this 
separation is explained by Mr. Seebhom in the following 
terms:— 

“Ac first sight there is a great confusion in the 
class of men mentioned in the ancient Welsh 
Laws—of tribesmen, Uchelore bryre and innate 
boneddings: of non-tribesmen, talogo Aullte,All- 
tude, etc. The confusion vanishes only when the 
principle underlying the constitution of tribal 
society is grasped. And this principle would appa- 
rently be a very simple one if could be freed 
from the complications of conquest and perma- 
nent settlement of land from the inroads of fore- 
ign law, custom, and nomenclature. To begin 
with there can be little doubt that the ruling 
principle underlying the structure of tribal society 
was that of blood relationship among the free 
tribesmen. Noone who did not belong to a 
kindred could be a member of the tribe, which 
was in fact, a bundle of Welsh kindred. Broadly 
then under the Welsh tribal system there were 
two classes, those of Cymric blood—and those 
who were stranger in blood. There was a deep, 
if not unpassable, gulf between these two classes 
quite apart from any question of land or of con- 
quest. It was a division in blood and it soon 
becomes apparent that the tenacity with which 
the distinction was maintained was at once one 

1. The Tribal System in.Wales. 2. Ibid. p. 9. 
8. Ibid pp. 64-55. 

88 The Untouchables 

_ of the strong distinctive marks of the tribal sys- 
tem and one of the main secrets of its strength. 

IIT 

This description of the organisation of the Irish and the 
Welsh villages in the primitive times leave no doubt that 
the case of the Untouchables of India is not the only case of 
a people living outside the village. It proves that in it was 
exhibited a universal phenomenon, and was marked by the 
following features: 

J. That in primitive times the Village Settlement 

consisted of two parts. One part occupied by the 

community belonging to one tribe and another 
part occupied by the Broken Men of different 
tribes. 

2. The part of the settlement occupied by the tribal 
community was regarded as the village proper. 
The Broken Men lived in the outskirts of the 
village, ° 

3. The reason why the Broken Men lived outside 
the village was because they were aliens and did 
not belong to the tribal community. 

The analogy between the Untouchables of India and the 
Fuidhirs of Ireland and the Alltudes of Wales is complete. 
The Untouchabls lived outside the village for the same 
reason for which the Fuidhirs and Alltudes had to live outside 
the village in Ireland and Wales. It is, therefore, clear that 
what is said about the Untouchable onthe issue of their 
living outside the village is not without a parailel elsewhere. 

CHAPTER VI 

‘How Did Separate Settlements for Broken Men 
Disappear Elsewhere ? 

That the Fuidhirs of Ireland and the Alltudes of Wales 
were Broken Men is true. That they lived in separate quar- 
ters is also a fact. But it is also true that the separate quar- 
ters of those Broken Men disappeared and they became part 
of the Settled tribe and were absorbed in it. This is 
somewhat strange. The Broken Men according to the theory 
set out before were given quarters outside the village because 
they belonged to a different tribe and, therefore, to different 
blood. How is it then that they were absorbed by the tribe 
later on? Why such a thing did not happen in India? These 
are questions which are natural and which call for an answer. 

The question is integrally connected with the process 
of evolution through which Primitive Society came to be 
transferred into Modren Society. As has already been said 
this evolution has proceeded along two different lines. One 
marked the transformation of Primitive Society from Nomadic 
into a settled community. The other marked the transfor- 
mation of Primitive Society from tribal into a territorial com- 
munity. The question with which we are immediately con- 
cerned relates to the second line of evolution. For it is the 
substitution of common territory for common blood as the 
bond of union that is responsible for the disappearance of the 
separate quarters of the Broken Men. Why did Primitive 
Society substitute common territory for common blood as the 
bond of union? This is a question for which there is no 
adequate explanation. The origin of the change is very 
obscure. How the change was brought about is however 
quite clear. 

At some stage there came into being in Primitive Society 
a rule whereby a non-tribesman could become a member. 
of the tribe and become absorbed in it as a kindred. It was 
known as a rule of ennoblement. This rule was that if a 
non-tribesman lived next to the tribe or married within a 
tribe fora given number of generations he became their 

40 The Untouchables 

kindred.1 Mr. Seebhom gives the following rules for a non- 
tribesman becoming a tribesman as it was found in the Welsh 

village system : 

(1) Residence in Cymru (Wales) according to the 
tradition of South Wales made the descendant 
of a stranger at last, a Cymru, but not until con- 
tinued to the ninth generation. 

(2) Intermarriage with innate Cymraeses generation 
after generation made the descendent of a stran- 
ger an innate Cymru inthe fouvih generation. 
In other words, the original stranger’s great- 
grandson, whose blood was at least seven-eighths 
Cymric was allowed to attain the right to claim 
the privileges of a tribesman. 

Should not such a thing have happened in India? It 
could have — indeed it should have. For arule similar to 
that which existed in Ireland and Wales also existed in India. 
It is referred to by Manu. In Chaper X, verses 64-67, he says 
that a Shudra can be a Brahmin if he marries? for seven 
generations within the Brahmin Community. The ordinary 
rule of Chaturvarna was that a Shudra could never become 
a Brahmin. A Shudra was born and he did a Shudra and 
could not be madea Brahmin. But this rule of antiquity 
was so strong that Manu had to apply it to the Shudra. It 
is obvious that if this rule had continued to operate in India, 
the Broken Men of India would have been absorbed in the 
village community and their separate quarters would have 

ceased to exist. 

Why did this not happen? The answer is that the 
notion of Untouchability supervened and perpetuated diffe- 
rence between kindred and non-kindred, tribesmen and non- 
tribesmen in another form; namely; between Touchables and 
Untouchables. It is this new factor which prevented the 
amalgamation taking place in the way in which it took place 
in Ireland and Wales, with the result that the system of 
separate quarters has become a perpetual and a permanent 
feature of the Indian village. 

1, W.E. Hearn; The Aryan Household — Chapter VIII, 

PART Ill 

OLD THEORIES OF THE ORIGIN 
OF UNTOUCHABILITY 

Chapter VII. Racial Difference as the Origin of Untouch- 
ability. 

Chapter VIII, Occupational Origin of Untouchability. 

CHAPTER VII. 
Racial Difference as the Origin of Untouchabliity 

What is the origin of Untouchability? As has been 
said the field is quite unexplored. No student of Sociology 
has paid any attention to it. Writers, other than Sociologists, 
who have written about India and her people have been con- 
tent with merely recording the custom of Untouchability 
with varying degrees of disapprobation and leaving it at that. 
So far as my researches go, I have come across only one author 
who uas attempted to explain how Untouchability has come 
about. It is Mr. Stanley Rice’. According to Mr. Rice— 

“There is a strong probability that the outcasts 
were the survivors of the conquered peoples, who, 
as caste tended to coincide with occupation, be- 
came the drum-beating, leather-working, and farm 
labouring classes to which as serfs they had been 
relegated from early times. They were not the 
races conquered by the Aryans; the Parasyans 
belonged to the aborigines who were conquered by 
the Dravidians and being of a different race they 
were not admitted to the totem of similar clans 
with which marriage is always intimately connec- 
ted, since that would have led to free intercourse 
and the gradual degradation of the race. But this 
prohibition cannot have been absolute; there are 
always exceptions. In the course of the centuries 
some forty or more the inevitable miscegenation 
may very well have obliterated the racial distinc- 
tions between aboriginal and early Dravidian. 
These people have been admitted to a sort of 
lowly participation in the Hindu system in the 
atmosphere of which they have lived for so long, 
for Hinduism is at once the most tolerant and 
intolarent of creeds. It does not proselytize; you 
cannot become a Hindu as you can become a 

1. Hindu Customs And Their Origins : pp. 113-115. (Italics not 
in the original.) 

44 

The Untouchables 

Mussalman, and those within the fold are liable 
to the most rigid restrictions. But it has always 
been ready to embrace aboriginal tribes who are 
willing to submit to its laws, though it may assign 
to them a very lowly place and they have always 
been. kept at adistance and have been excluded 
from the temples. It would seem, therefore, that 

anthropological arguments are in any case not 

conclusive when we consider these factors which 
must have profoundly modified the original racial 
characteristics and must have changed their out: 
look. Thus the Dravidians applied to the Parai- 
yans the sate test which the Aryans are assumed 
to have applied to the conquered inhabitants. They 
reduced them to the posstion of serfs and assigned 
to them those ditties which it was thought 
beneath thetr own dignity to perform. Nor was mat- 
riage the only consideration. The disabilities of 
the Paraiyans were due also—and to an even 
greater degree—to the mystical qualities inherent 
in Tabu. To admit such a man to the totem 
family was not only contrary to the social order; 
it would bring upon the clan the anger of their 
particular god. But to admit him to the worship 
of the god within the sacred precincts of a tem- 
ple was to call down authentic fire from Heaven, 
whereby they would be consumed. It would be 
sacrilege of the same kind as the offering of un- 
consecrated orunorthodox fire by Korah, Dathan 
and Abhiram. But though debarred from taking 
an active part in worship, the Paraiyans might 
yet do the menial services connected with it, pro- 
vided that they did not entail the pollution of 
the sacred building. In Chriistian termino- 
logy the Paraiyan, although he could neither 
officiate at the altar, nor preach a sermon nor 
even be one of the congregation, might still ring 
the bell—on one condition. He could not re- 
gard himself as of the communion; he was, in 
fact, ex-communicate. And as such, he was 
ceremonially unclean. No washing with water 
no cleansing ceremony, could remove that stain 

¢ 

Racial Difference as the Origin of Untouchability 45 

which was indelibly fixed by the operation of 
Tabu. To touch him, to have any dealings with 
him save as it were, at arm’s length, was by a 
sort of contagious magic a defilement. You could 
employ him to till your field because that en- 
tailed no contact of any kind; beyond giving an 
order, you need have no further communication 
with him. The seal of pollution was set on his 
forehead; it was inherent in him as surely as the 
blood in his veins. And so from being the vile, 
degraded fellow which Indian opinion had made 

‘him, he became viler and more degraded from 
the kinds of occupation lett open to him.” 

The theory of Mr. Rice really divides itself into two 
parts. For, according to him, the origin of untouchability 
is to be found in two circumstances—Race and Occupa- 
tion. Obviously, they require separate consideration. This 
Chapter will be devoted to an examination of his theory of 
racial difference as the origin of untouchability. 

The racial theory of Mr. Rice contains two elements:— 

(1) That the Untouchables are non-Aryan, non- 
Dravidian aboriginals ; and 

(2) That they were conquered and subjugated by the 
Dravidians. 

This theory raises the whole question of the invasions 
of India by foreign invaders, the conquests made by them 
and the social and cultural institutions that have resulted 
therefrom. According to Mr. Rice, there have been two 
invasions of India. First is the invasion of India by the Dravi- 
dians. They conquered the non-Dravidian aborigines, the 
ancestors of the Untouchables, and made them Untouchables. 
The second invasion is the invasion of India by the Aryans. 
The Aryans conquered the Dravidians. He does not say 
how the conquering Aryans treated the conquered Dravi- 
dians. If pressed for an answer he might say they made them 
Shudras. So that we get a chain. The Dravidians invaded 
India and conquered the aborigines and made them Untouch- 
ables. After Dravidians came the Aryans. The Aryans 
conquered the Dravidians and made them Shudras. The 
theory is too mechanical, a mere speculation and too simple 

46 The Untouchables 

to explain a complicated set of facts relating to the origin of 
the Shudras and the Untouchables. 

When students of ancient Indian history delve into 
the ancient past they do often come across four names, the 
Aryans, Dravidians, Dasas and Nagas. What do these names 
indicate? This question has never been considered. Are 
these names Aryans, Dravidians, Dasas and Nagas the names 
of different races or are they merely different names 
for a people of the same race? The general assump- 
tion is that they are different races. It is an assumption on 
which theories like that of Mr. Rice, which seek to explain the 
social structure of the Hindu Society, particularly its class 
basis, are built. Before such a theory is accepted it is 
necessary to examine its foundations. 

Starting with the Aryans it is beyond dispute that they 
were not a single homogeneous people. That they were 
divided into two' sections is beyond dispute. It is also 
beyond dispute that the two had different cultures. One of 
them may be called Rig Vedic Aryans and the other the 
Atharva Vedic Aryans. Their cultural cleavage appears to 
be complete. The Rig Vedic Aryans believed in Yajna. The 
Atharva Vedic Aryans believed the Magis. Their mytholo- 
gies were different. The Rig Vedic Aryans believed in the 
Deluge and the creation of their race from Manu. The 
Atharva Vedic Aryans did not believe in Deluge but believ- 
ed in the creation of their race from Brahma or Prajapati. 
Their literary developments also lay along different paths. 
The Rig Vedic Aryans produced Brahmans, Sutras and Aran- 
yakas. The Atharva Vedic Aryans produced the Upanishads. 
Their cultural conflict was so great that the Rig Vedic Aryans 
would not for a long time admit the sanctity of the Atharva 
Veda nor of the Upanishads and when they did recognize it 
they called it Vedanta which contrary to the current mean- 
ing of the word—namely, essence of the Vedas—originally 
meant something outside the boundary of the Vedas and, 
therefore, not so sacred as the Vedas and regarded its 
study as Anuloma. Whether these two sections of Aryans 
were two different races we do not know. We do not know 

ee eer te ek ee ee 

1. For an exhaustive treatment of the subject see “ book “Who 
Were the Shudrag?”’, . 

Racial Difference as the Origin of Untouchability 47 

whether the word Aryan is a term indicative of race. 
Historians have therefore made a mistake in proceeding on 
the assumption that the Aryans were a separate race. 

A greater mistake lies in differentiating the Dasas from 
the Nagas. The Dasas are the same as Nagas. Dasas is 
merely another name for Nagas. It is not difficult to under- 
stand how the Nagas came to be called Dasas in the Vedic 
literature. Dasa isa Sanskritized form of the Indo-Iranian word 
Dahaka. Dahaka was the name of the king of the Nagas.! 
Consequently, the Aryans called the Nagas after the name of 
their king Dahaka, which in its Sanskrit form became Dasa 
a generic name applied to all the Nagas. 

Who were the Nagas? Undoubtedly they were non- 
Aryans. A careful study of the Vedic literature? reveals a 
spirit of conflict, of a dualism, and a race for superiority 
between two distinct types of culture and thought. In the Rig 
Veda, we are first introduced to the Snake-god in the form 
of Ahi Vitra, the enemy of the Aryan god Indra. Naga, the 
name under which the Snake-god was to become so famous 
in later days, does not appear in early Vedic literature. Even 
when it does for the first time in the Satapatha Brahmana (XI. 
2,7,12), itis not clear whether a great snake or a great elephant 
is meant. But this does not conceal the nature of Ahi Vitra, 
since he is described always in Rig Weda as the serpant who 
lay around or hidden in waters, and as holding a full control 
over the waters of heaven and earth alike. 

_ Itis also evident from the hymns that refer to Ahi 
Vitra, that he received no worship from the Aryan tribes and 

was only regarded as an evil spirit of considerable power who 
must be fought down. 

The mention of the Nagas in the Rig Veda shows that 
the Nagas were a very ancient people. It must also be re- 
membered that the Nagas were in no way an aboriginal or 
uncivilized people. History shows a very close association 
by intermarriage between the Naga people with the Royal 

—— rd oe ee ae ee 

1, On this point see my Volume: “Who Were the Shudras ?” 

2. For the facts stated in the next few pages, see a Paper on the 
Nagas and the Naga cult in Ancient Indian History 
by Miss Karunakara Gupta in the Proceedings of the Third 
Session of the Indian History Congress (1939)p,. 214 onwards, 

48 The Untouchables 

families of India. The Devagiri record of the Kadamba king 
Krisnavarmma! connects the beginning of the Kadamba-kula 
with the Nagas. The Royakota’ grant of 9th century A.D. 
mentions the marriage of Asvathama with a Nagi and the 
foundation of the Pallava line by Skandasishya, the issue of 
this marriage. Virakurcha, who according to another Pallava 
inscription dated in the 9th century A.D. was the ruler of 
the dynasty, is also mentioned in the same inscription as 
having married a Nagi and ‘obtained from her the insignia of 
royalty.’ The marriage of Gautamiputra, theson of the 
Vakataka king Pravarasena, with the daughter of the Bhara- 
siva king Bhava Naga, is a historical fact. So is the marriage 
of Chandragupta II with princess Kuvera Naga ‘of Naga Kula’. 
A Tamil poet asserts that Kokkilli, an early Chola king, had 
married a Naga princess.’ Rajendra Chola is also credited 
to have won ‘by his radiant beauty the hand of the noble 
daughter of Naga race’. The Navasahasanka Charita describes 
the marriage of the Paramara king Sindhuraja (who seems to 
have reigned towards the early part of the 10th Century A.D.) 
with the Naga princess Sasiprabha, with such exhaustive details 
in so matter-of-fact-a-manner as to make usalmost feel certain 
that there must have been some historical basis for this 
assertion.? From the Harsha inscription of V.S. 1030-973A.D. 
we know that Guvaka I, who was the sixth king in the 
genealogy upwards from Vigraharaja Chahamana and thus 
might be supposed to have been ruling towards the middle of 
the 9th Century was “famous as a hero in the assemblies of 
the Nagas and other princes.” Sanatikara of the Bhaumn 
dynasty of Orissa, one of whose dates was most probably 921 
A.D., is mentioned in an inscription of his son as having 
married Tribhuana Mahadevi of the Naga family.® 

Not only did the Naga people occupy a high cultural 
level but history shows that they ruled a good part of India. 

LA. VII. p. 34 
E.I. XV. p. 246 
S.LI. II. p. 508 
E.T..XV. p. 41 

I. XV, p, 249 

EL 

LAXXIL. pp- 144-149 
ELI. p. 229 
E.I. I 
J.B.0.R 

I. p. 117 
R.S. XVI. p. 771 

Opa Meise | 

Racial Difference as the Origin of Untouchability 49 

That Maharashtra is the home of the Nagas goes without 
saying. Its people and its kings were Nagas.’ 

That Andhradesa and its neighourhood were under 
the Nagas during the early centuries of the Christian era is 
suggested by evidence from more sources than one, The 
Satavahanas, and their successors, the Chutu Kula Satakarnis 
drew their blood more or less from the Naga stock. As 
Dr. H. C. Roy Chaudhri has pointed out, the Dvatrimasatpu- 
kalitta represents Salivaharana, the mythological representa- 
tive of the Satavahana dynasty, as of mixed Brahmana and 
the Naga origin? This is amply attested to by the typical 
Naga names which occur in their dynastic lists. That the 
Nagas grew to be very powerful towards the end of the 
Satavahana rule is also proved by a number of facts. A chief 
called Skandanaga is found ruling the Bellary district, in the 
reign of Pulumavi, the last king of the main Satavahana 
line. Secondly. Naga Mulanika the daughter of a Chutu 
king, is mentioned as making a gift of a Naga, together with 
her son, who is called Sivakanda-Naga-Sri. All the known 
kings of this line bear the same name and thus prove a close 
association with the Nagas. Thirdly, the name of Uragapura, 
the capital of Soringoi, suggest not an isolated reign of one 
Naga king but a Naga Settlement in that locality of tolerably 
long duration. 

From Buddhist tradition of Ceylon and Siam we also 
know that there was a Naga country called Majerika near 
the Diamond Sands, ie. Karachi.’ 

Then during the third and early part of the 4th Century 
A.D, Northern India also was ruled by a number of Naga 
kings is clearly proved by Furanic as well as numismaric and 
epigraphic evidence. Three independent groups of Vidisa, 
Campavati or Padmavati and Mathura are distinctly men- 
tioned in such a way as to leave little doubt of their impor- 
tance. The name Bhava Naga, the only known king of the 
Bharasiva dynasty, also seems to connect him with the Nagas. 
It is not possible to enter here into a discussion of the coins 
of the second group, or the question of indentification of 

1. Rajwade. 
2. I. P.H.A,I, p. 280. 
$- Cunningham A. Geo. India, pp. 611-12. 

50: The Untouchables 

Achyuta Ganapati Naga or Nagasena of Allahabad Pillar 
inscription with these Puranic Naga kings.! Of all the Nagas 
referred to in ancient Indian History, the North Indian Naga 
houses of the 4th century A.D. stand out as the most proml- 
nent and historically the most tangible. Wedo not know 
whether Nagabhatta and his son Maharaja Mohesvara Naga 
of the Lahore Copper Seal? belonged to any of these three 
groups or formed a separate Naga family by themselves. But 
all this sufficiently justifies the conclusion of Dr. C.C. Roy 
Chaudhri that the Kushana kingdom of Northern India 
disappeared in the 4th Century A.D. having been conquered 
by the Nagas. These Nagas must have been ruling over 
different portions of Uttarapatha till they were themselves 
swept away before the conquering arms of Somudrguprta. 

As late as the time of Skandagupta, however, we find 
one Sarvanaga as the governor of Antarvedi.t In the neigh- 
bourhood of Surashtra and Bharukaccha especially, the Nagas 
seem to have held a prominent position down to the 6th 
Century A.D. From the Junagadh inscription Skandagupta 
appears to have dealt severely with: a Naga rebellion.» In 
570 A.D. Dadda I Gurjara uproofed the Nagas.6 who have 
been indentifled with the jungle tribles ruled over by Brihul 
laka or Broach.?’ Dhruvasena II’s grant of G.S. 334 (645 

A DO.) also mentions as Dutaka the Pramatri Srinaga.° 

The next important revival of the Nagas particularly in 
Central India seems to date about the 9th Century A,D. In 
800 A.D. Maharaja Tivaradeva of Sripura in Kosala most 
probably defeated a Naga tribe.® Sometime after this period, 
we also note two references to Nagas in the inscription of 
Bengal. The Ramganj record of Mahamandalika Isvara 
Ghosha introduces us to a Ghosha Naga family of Dhekkari, . 
which was to be assigned to llth century'® A.D. The: 

C. M. I. pp. 23-24 
.H.A. TL. p. 364 

fad 

H 
I, 
I. 
© 
_ A, 
.G 
I. 

COBNAMAP WE 
moms OOOQ'v 

I 
handarkar’s List No. 2100, 

ond 

Racial Difference as the Origin of Untouchability “51 

Bhuvanesvara Prasasti of Bhatta Bhavadeva, the minister 
of Harivarmadeva in 12th century! A.D also refers to des- 
truction of Naga kings by him. The Ramacharita mentions 
the conquest of Utkala, the kingdom of Bhava-Bhushana- 
Santati, by Ramapala, but it is not clear whether in this case 
the Nagas or the Chandras were meant. The greater pro- 
bability would however lie in favour of the former, since they 
were the more well known. 

It was in the period 10th-12th Century A.D. that the 
different branches of the Sendraka, Sinda, or Chindaka 
family, which called themselves lords of Bhogavati and Naga- 
vamsi gradually spread themselves over different portions of 
Cer.tral India, particularly Baster. The Nagattaras of Begur, 
too, appear in an inscription of the 10th Century? A.D. as 
having fought against king Viramahendra, on behalf of the 
W. Ganga king Ereyappa and being distinguished for bravery 
in the fight. If the evidence of Navasahasanka Charita is 
accepted, then the Naga king, whose daughter Sasiprabha was 
married to Sindhuraja Paramara, must also have been ruling 
in Ratnavati on the Narmada at about this period. 

Who are the Dravidians? Are they different from the 
Nagas? Or are they two different names for a people of the 
same race? The popular view is that the Dravidians and 
Nagas are names of two different races. This statement is 
bound to shock many people. Nonetheless, it is a fact that 
the term Dravidians and Nagas are merely two different 
names for the same people. 

It is not to be denied that very few will be prepared to 
admit the proposition that the Dravidians and Nagas are 
merely two different names for the same people and fewer 
that the Dravidians as Nagas occupied not merely South 
India but that they occupied the whole of India—South as 
well as North. Nonetheless, these are historical truths. 

Let us see what the authorities have to say on the sub- 
ject. This is what Mr. Dikshitiar, a well-known South 
Indian scholar, has to say on the subject in his* Paper on 
South India in the Ramayana: Ol 

1. Inscription of Bengal III pp. 30 ff. 
2. E.I. VI. p. 45 

62 The Untouchables 

“The Nagas, another tribe—semi-divine in char- 
acter, with their tolein as serpent, spread 
throughout India, from Taksasila in the North- 
West to Assam in the North-East and to Ceylon 
and South India in the South. At one time 
they must have been powerful. Contempora- 
neous with the Yakwas or perhaps subsequent to 
their fall as a political entity, the Nagas rose to 
prominence in South India. Not only parts of 
Ceylon but ancient Malabar were the territories 
occupied by the ancient Nagas .. . In 
the Tamil classics of the early centuries after 
Christ, we hear frequent references to Naganadu 
Remnants of Naga _ worship are still 
lingering in Malabar, and the temple in Nager- 
coil in South Travancore is dedicated to Naga 
worship even today. All that can be said about 
them is that they were a sea-faring tribe. Their 
womenfolk were renowned for their beauty. - 
Apparently the Nagas had become merged with 
the Cheras who rose to power and prominence 
at the commencement of the Christian Era.” 

Further light is thrown on the subject by C. F. Oldham 
who has made a deep study of it. According to Mr. Old- 
ham: 2 

“The Dravidian people have been divided, from 

ancient times, into Cheras, Cholas and Pandyas. 

Chera, or Sera (in old Tamil Sarai) is the Dravi- 
dian equivalent for Naga; Cheramandala, Naga- 
dwipa, or the Naga country. This seems to 
point distinctly to the Asura origin of the Dra- 
vidians of the South. But in addition to this 
there still exists, widely spread over the Ganges 
valley, a people who call themselves Cherus or 
Seoris, and who claim descent from the serpent- 
gods. The Cherus are of very ancient race: 

1. Proceedings of the Seventh All-India Oriental Confezence, 
pp. 248-49 

2. The Sun and the Serpent, pp. 157-161 

8. Elliot Sup. Glossary N. W. F., 1835, 136 

Racial Difference as the Origin of Untouchability 

they are believed to have once held a great por- 
tion of the valley of the Ganges, which, as we 
have already seen, was occupied in very early 
times by Naga tribes. The Cherus appear to 
have been gradually ousted from their lands, 
during the troublous times of the Mohammedan 
invasions, and they are now poor and almost 
landless. There can be little doubt that these 
people are kinsmen of the Dravidian Cheras. 

The Cherus have several peculiar customs and 
amongst them one which seems to connect them 
with the Lichavis, as well as with the Newars of 
Nepal. This is the election of a raja for every five 
or six houses, and his investiture, in due form, with 
the tilak or royal frontal mark.! Both Lichavis 
and Newars had many customs in common with 
the Dravidians of the South. Each venerated 
the serpent, Karkotaka Naga being to Nepal 
what Nila Naga wasto Kashmir. A Naga, too, was 
the tutelary deity of Vaisali, the Lichavi capital. 

The marital relations of Newars and Lichavis 
closely resembled those of the Tamil people, and 
go far to show a common origin. 

Property amongst the Newars descended in the 
female line, as it once did amongst the Arattas, 
Bahikas or Takhas of the Punjab, whose sisters’ 
sons, and not their own, were their heirs.2 This 
is still a Dravidian custom. In short, a recent 
Dravidian writer, Mr. Balakrishna Nair, says 
that his people ‘appear to be, in nearly every 
particular, the kinsfolk of the Newars.’ 

Besides all this, however, there are other links 
connecting the Naga people of the South with 
those of the north of India. In an inscription 
discovered by Colonel Tod at Kanswah near the 
river Chambal, a Raja, called Salindra, ‘of the 
race of Sarya, a tribe renowned amongst the 

1. Sherring Races of N.W.P., 376,377 
2. Mahabharatta, Karna, p. xiv 
8. Calcutta Review. July, 1896. 

ba 

‘The Untouchables ~ 

tribes of the mighty’ is said to be ruler of 
Takhya.! 

This was evidently the Takhya or Takha king- 
dom of the Punjab, which was visited by Hiouen 
Tsiang,? and which has been already referred to. 
It seems, therefore, that the Naga people of 
Takhya were known also by the name of Sarya. 

Again, in the outer Himalaya, between the Sutlej 
and Beas Valleys, is atract of country called 
Saraj, or Seoraj. In this district the Naga demi- 
gods are the chief deities worshipped. 

There is another Seoraj in the Upper Chinab 
Valley, and this too is occupied by a Naga- 
worshipping people. 

The name Saraj, or Seoraj, appears to be the same 
as the Sarya of Colonel Tod’s inscription and as 
Seori, which is the alternative name of the Cherus 
of the Ganges Valley. It also seems to be 
identical with Sarai, which we have already seen, 
is the old Tamil name for the Chera or Naga. 
Apparently, therefore, the Saryas or Takhya, the 
Saraj people of the Sutlej Valley, the Seoris or 
Cherus of the valley of the Ganges, and the 
Cheras, Seras, or Keralas of Southern India, are 
but different branches of the same Naga-wor- 
shipping people. 

It may be noted. too, that in some of the Hima- 
layan dialects, Kira or Kiri means a serpent. 
This name, from which was perhaps derived the 
term Kirate so often applied to the people of 
the Himalayas, isfound in the Rajatarangini, 
where it isapplied to a people in or near Kashmir. 

- The Kiras are mentioned by Varaha Mihira, and 

in a copper plate published by Prof. Kielhorn.$ 
An inscription at the Baijnath temple in the’ 

oS ae a a ES 

1. Annals of Rajasthan, 1.795 

2. Hiouen Tsiang, Beal, 1.165 
8. Rajatarangini, Stein, vill. 27, 67 

Rapson J.R.A.S., July 1900, 533 

Racial Difference as the Origin of Untouchability 55 

Kangra valley gives Kiragrams as the then name 
of the’place.1 This, in the local dialect, would 
mean the village of serpents. The Naga is still 
a popular deity at Baijnath, and throughout the 
neighbouring country. The term Kira is thus 
an equivalent for Naga, and it can scarcely be 
doubted that the serpent-worshipping Kiras of 
the Himalayas were closely related to the Dravi- 
dian Keras, Cheras or Keralas of the South. 

Similarity of name is not always to be trusted, 
but here we have something more. These people, 
whose designation is thus apparently the same, 
are all of Solar race; they all venerate the hooded 
serpent; and they all worship, as ancestors, the 
Naga demi-gods. 

From the foregoing it would seem tolerably cer- 
tain that the Dravidians of Southern India were 
of the same stock as the Nagas or Asuras of the 
North.” 

It is thus clear that the Nagas and Dravidians are one 
and the same people. Even with this much of proof, people 
may not be found ready to accept the thesis. The chief 
difficulty in the way of accepting it lies in the designation of 
the people of South India by the name Dravidian. It is 
natural for them to ask why the term Dravidian has come to 
be restricted to the people of South India if they are really 
Nagas. Critics are bound to ask: If the Dravidians and the 
Nagas are the same people, why is the name Nagas not used 
to designate people of South India also. This is no doubt a 
puzzle. But it is a puzzle which is not beyond solution. It 
can be solved if certain facts are borne in mind. 

The first thing to be borne in mind is the situation 
regarding language. Today the language of the Southern 
India differs from that of the people of Northern India. Was 
this always so? On this question the observations of Mr. 
Oldham? are worth attention. 

“It is evident that the old Sanskrit grammarians 

considered the language of the Dravidian 

1. J.R.AS., Jan. 19038, p. 37 
2. The Sun and the Serpent prefer to quthor, 

The Untouchables 

countries to be connected with the vernaculars of 
northern India; and that, in their opinion, it was 
especially related to the speech of those people 
who, as we have seen, were apparently descen- 
dants of the Asuratribes. Thus, in the ‘Sha- 
hasha Chandrika’, Lakshmidhara says that the 
Paisachi language is spoken in the Paisachi coun- 
tries of Pandya, Kekaya, Vahlika, Sahya, Nepala, 
Kuntala, Sudesha, Bhota, Gandhara, Haiva and 
Kanojana; and that these are the Paisachi coun-— 
tries.1 Of all the vernacular dialects, the paisachi 
is said to have contained the smallest infusion of 

Sanskrit.? 

That the Asuras originally spoke a language which 
differed from that of the Aryas seems evident. 
Several passages are quoted by Prof. Muir, from 
the Rig Veda. in which the word ‘mridavach’ is 
applied to the speech of the Asuras (R.v1.74,2; 
v.vi1.3; v.vii.6). Of these passages, Professor Muir 
observes: ‘The word mridavach, which I have 
translated “injuriously speaking”, is explained by 
Sayana as meaning “one whose organs of speech 
are destroyed”, The original meaning of the 
expression was, doubtless that the language of 
the Asuras was more or less unintelligible to the 
Aryas. The same explanation will apply to 
another passage in the Rig Veda, where it is said: 
‘May we (by propitiating Indra) conquer the ill- 
speaking man.’* 

From the Satapatha Brahmana we find that ‘the 
Asuras, being deprived of speech, were undone, 
crying, ‘He lava’, ‘He lava’. Such was the 
unintelligible speech which they uttered. And he 
who speaks thus is a Mlecha. Hence, let no 
Brahman speak barbarous language, since such is 
the speech of Asuras.® 

1 and 2, Muir O:S.T. ii. 49 

8. Muir O:S.T.ii. 49 

4 Rig Veda Wilson VII, xviii. 13 
5, Satapatha Br. iii. 2,1,23 . 

Racial Difference as the Origin of Untouchability 

We learn from Manu, that ‘those tribes who are 
outside of the classes produced from the mouth, 
arms, thighs and feet of Brahman, whether they 
speak the language of the Mlechas or of the 
Aryas, are called Dasyus.’!' In the time of 
Manu, therefore, the Aryan language and that 
of the Mlechas or Asuras were both in use. At 
the period described in the Mahabharata, how- 
ever, the Asura language must have almost died 
out amongst the Aryanized tribes; as Vidura 
addressed Yudishthra in the Mlecha tongue, so 
as to be unintelligible to all except Yudishthra.? 

Ata later period than this, however, the gram- 
marian Rama Tarkavagisa refers to ‘those who 
speak like Nagas.’ It would seem, therefore, 
that the unregenerate Asuras retained the 
language, as well as the religion and customs, of 
their forefathers long after their converted 
brethren had discarded them. It was evidently 
amongst these unregenerate tribes that the Pai- 
sachi dialects were in use; and amongst these 
tribes, as we have just seen, were the Dravidian 
Pandyas.‘ 

This view, that the Tamil and cognate tongues 
were founded upon the ancient Asura speech, is 
very strongly confirmed by the fact that the 
language of the Brahuis, a tribe on the borders 
of Sind, has been found to be very closely allied 
to them. Indeed, Dr, Caldwell says: ‘The Brahui 
(language) enables us to trace the Dravidian 
race, beyond the Indus, to the southern confines 
of Central Asia.® This country, as I have 
already pointed out, was the home of the Asuras 
or Nagas, to which race apparently belonged the 
founders of the Dravidian kingdoms. 

Manu, Haughton x. 45 

Mahabharata Adi, Jatagriha, p. oxlvii. 
Muir, 0.8S.T., ii. 52 
Ibid. 49 

Grammar of Drav. Lang., Intro., 44 

or ® OOS be 

67 

W The Untouchables 

Taking into consideration all the evidence which 

has been brought forward, the only possible con- 

clusion seems to be, that the Dravidians, of the 

south of India, were of the same stock as the 
Asuras or Nagas of the North.” 

The second thing to be borne in mind is that the word 
‘Dravida’ is not an original word. It is the Sanskritized form 
of the word ‘Tamil’. The original word ‘Tamil’ when impor- 
ted into Sanskrit became Damila' and later on Damilla be- 
came Dravida. The word Dravida is the name of the language 
of the people and does not denote the race of the people. 
The third thing to remember is that Tamil or Dravida was 
not merely the language of South India but before the Aryans 
came it was the language of the whole of India,? and was 
spoken from Kashmere to Cape Camorin. In fact, it was the 
language of the Nagas throughout India. The next thing to 
note is the contact between the Aryan andthe Nagas and 
the effect it produced on the Nagas and their language. 
Strange as it may appear the effect of this contact on the 
Nagas of North India was quite different from the effect it 
produced on the Nagas of South India. The Nagas in North 
India gave up Tamil which was their mother tongue and 
adopted Sanskrit in its place. The Nagas in South India 
retained Tamil as their mother tongue and did not adopt 
Sanskrit the language of the Aryans. If this difference is 
borne in mind it will help to explain why the name Dravida 
came to be applied only for the people of South India. The 
necessity for the application of thename Dravidato the Nagas 
of Northern India had ceased because they had ceased to 
speak the Dravida language. But so far as the Nagas of South 
India are concerned not only the propriety of calling them 
Dravida had remained in view of their adherence to the 
Dravida language but the necessity of calling them Dravida 
had become very urgent in view of their being the only 
people speaking the Dravida language after the Nagas of the 
North had ceased to use it. This is the real reason why the 
people of South India have come to be called Dravidians. 

The special application of the use of the word Dravida 
1. B.R. Bhandarkar, Lectures on the Ancient History of India 
(1919), p. 30 
2. bid pp.. 25-28. 

Racial Difference as the Origin of Untouchability 69 

for the people of South India must not, therefore, obscure the 
fact that the Nagas and Dravidas are the one and the same 
people. They are only two different names for the same 
people. Nagas was aracial or cultural name and Dravida 
was their linguistic name. 

Thus the Dasas are the same as the Nagas and the 
Nagas are the same as the Dravidians. In other words what 
we can say about the races of Indiais that there have been 
at the most only two races in the field, the Aryans and the 
Nagas. Obviously the theory of Mr. Rice must fall to the 
ground. For it postulates three races in action when asa 
matter of fact we see that there are only two. 

II 

Granting however that there was a third aboriginal 
race living in India before the advent of the Dravidians, can 
it be said that these pre-Dravidian aboriginals were the 
ancestors of the present day Untouchables of India?. There 
are two tests we can apply to find the truth. One is the 
anthropometric test and the other is the ethnological. 

Considered in the light of the anthropometric chara- 
cteristics of the Indian people Prof. Ghurey has something 
very striking to say in his volum2 on ‘Caste and Race in 
India’ from which the following is an extract : 

“Taking the Brahmin of the United Provinces 
as the typical representative of the ancient Arvans 
we shall start comparisons with him. If we turn 
to the table of differential indices we find that 
he shows a smaller differential index as com- 
pared with the Chuhra and the Khatri of the 
Punjab than with any caste from the United 
Provinces except the Chhatri. The differential 
index between the Khatri and the Chuhra! is 
the only slightly less than that between the 
Brahmin of the United Provinces and the 
Chuhraofthe punjab. This means that the Brahmin 
of the United Provinces has closer 
physical affinities with the Chuhra and the 

1. Chuhra is an Untouchable of the Punjab. 

The Untouchables 

Khatri of the Punjab than with any caste from 
his own province except the very high caste of 
the Chhatri... The reality of this close 
affinity between the United Provinces Brahmin 
and the Punjab Chuhra is more clearly brought 
out if we look at the table of differential indices 
between the United Provinces Brahmin and the 
Brahmins of other regions. Even the differential 
index between the United Provinces Brahmin 
and the Bihar Brahmins, who from what we 
know about the history of spread of the Aryan 
culture, is expected to be very nearly allied to 
the former, is just as high as that between the 
United Provinces Brahmin and the Chuhra... 
On historical ground we expect Bihar to appro- 
ximate to the United Provinces. On referring 
to the table we find that the Kurmi comes near 
to the Brahmin, and the Chamar and the Dom! 
stand much differentiated from him. But the 
Chamar in this case is not as much distinct from 
the Brahmin as the United Provinces Chamar 
is from the United Provinces Brahmin. The 
table for Bengal shows that the Chandal? who 
stands sixth in the scheme of a social precedence 
and whose touch pollutes, is not much differen- 
tiated from the Brahmin, from whom the Ka- 
yasthas, second in rank, can hardly be said to be 
distinguished. In Bombay the Deshastha Brah- 
min bears as closer affinity tothe Son-Koli, a 
fisherman caste, as to his own compeer. the 
Chitpavan Brahmin. The Mahar, the Untouch- 
able of the Maratha region, come next together 
with the Kubi, the peasont. Then follow in 
order the Shenvi Brahmin, the Negar Brahmin 
and the high caste Maratha. These results are 
rather old. Stated in a generalized form they 
mean that there is no correspondence between 
-gocial gradation and physical differentiation in 
Bombay. 

1. Dom is an Untouchable of Bihar. 
2. Chandal is an Untouchable of Bengal. 

Racial Difference as the Origin of Untouchability 

Finally we come to Madras. Here we must treat 
the different linguistic areas separately for the 
schemes of social precedence in the various areas 
are different. According to the average given 
by Risely and by E. Thurston the order of castes is 
as follows: 

Kapu, Sale, Malla, Golla, Madiga, Fogata and 
Komati. 

According to their social status they are ranked 
as below: 

Brahmin, Komati, Golla, Kapu and others and 
Sale, Fagota and others. 

Mala Madiga occupy the lowest rank being the 
Pariahs of the Telugu country. In the Canarese 
the nasal index gives the following order : 

Karnatak Smarts, Brahmin, Bant, Billiva, Mandya 
Brahmin, Vakkaliga, Ganiga, Linga Banayjiga, 
Panchala Kurha, Holeya, Deshastha Brahmin, 
Toreya and Bedar. 

In the scheme of social precedence the castes are 
as under : 

Brahmin, Bant and Vakkaliga, Toreya, etc., 
Kuruba and Ganiga Badaga and Krumba and 
Solaga, Billiva, Beda Holeya. 

The significance of the comparison is enhanced 
when we remember that the nasal index of the 
Holeya, the Untouchables of the Canarese region 
is 75°1 that of the highest of the Brahmin being 
71°55 while those of the jungle Krumba and the 
Solaga, who when Hinduised occupy the rank 
allotted to them in the list, are 86.1 and 85'1 
respectively. 

The Tamil castes may be arranged according to 
their nasal index as follows :- 

Ambattan, Vellai, Ediayan, Agamudaiyan, Tamil 
Brahmin; Palli, Malaiyali, Shanan and Parayan.The 
Nasal indices of four typical Malaylam castes are: 
Tiyan, 75; Nambudir 75°5; Nayar 76°7; [Charuman 
772. The order of social precedence among these 

61 

é 

62 The Untouchables 

is: Nambudri, Nayar, Tiyan and Charuman. The 
- nasal index of the Kanikar, a jungle tribe of 
‘Travancore is 846. Thus, the Charuman (an 
Unapproachable) belonging to the same race as 
the Brahmin rather than to Kanikar.” 

To omit from the above extract what is said about 
other communities and to draw attention to what relates to 
the Untouchables only, it is clear that the nasal index of the 
Chuhra (the Untouchables) of the Punjab is the same as the 
nasal index of the Brahmin of the United Provinces; the 
nasal index of the Chamar (the Untouchables) or Bihar is 
not very much distinct from the Brahmin of Bihar; the nasal 
index of the Holeya (an Untouchable) of the Canarese is far 
higher than that of the Brahmin of Karnatak and that the 
nasal index of the Cheruman (an Unapproachable lower than 
the Pariah) of the Tamil belongs to the same race as the 
Brahmin of the Tamil Nad. If anthropometry ‘is a science 
which can be depended upon to determine the race ofa 
people, then the result obtained by the application of anthro- 
pometry to the various strata of Hindu society disprove that 
the Untouchables belong toa race different from the Aryans 
and the Dravidians. The measurements establish that the 
Brahmin and the Untouchables belong to the same race. 
From this it follows that if the Brahmins are Aryans the 
Untouchables are also Aryans. If the Brahmins are Dravi- 
dians the Untouchables are also Dravidians. If the Brahmins 
are Nagas, the Untouchables are also Nagas. Such being the 
facts, the theory propounded by Mr. Rice must be said to be 
based on a false foundation. 

Ill 

The racial theory of Untouchability not only runs coun- 
ter to the results of anthropometry, butit also finds very little. 
support from such facts as we know about the ethnology of India 
That the people of India were once organized on tribal basis 
is quite well known, and although the tribes have become 
caSites the tribal organization still remains intact. Each 
trrbe was divided into clans and the clans were composed of 
woups of families. Each group of families had a totem which 
gas some object animate or inanimate. Those who had a 
common totem formed an exagomous group popularly known 

Racial Difference as the Origin of Untouchability 63 

as Gotra or Kula. Families having a common gotra were not 
allowed to intermarry for they were supposed to be descen- 
ded from the same ancestor having the same blcod running 
in their veins. Having regard to this fact an examination of 
the distribution of the totems among the different castes and 
communties should serve as good a test for determining race 
ac anthropometry has been. 

Unfortunately, the study of the totems and their distri- 
bution among different communities has been completely 
neglected by students of sociology. This neglect is largely 
due to the current view propagated by the Census Commis- 
sionei: that the real unit of the Hindu social system and the 
basis of the fabric of Hindu society is the sub-caste founded 
on the rule of endogamy. Nothing can be a greater mistake 
than this. The unit of Hindu society is not the sub-caste 
but the family founded on the rule of exogamy. In this sense 
the Hindu family is fundamentally a tribal organization and 
not a social organization as the sub-caste is. The Hindu 
family is primarily guided in the matter of marriage by con- 
sideration of Kul and Gotra and only secondarily by consi- 
derations of caste and sub-caste. Kul and Gotra are Hindu 
equivalents of the totem of the Primitive Society. This shows 
that the Hindu society is still tribal in its organization with 
the family at its base observing the rules of exogamy based on 
Kul and Gotra. Castes and sub-castes are social organizations 
which are superimposed over the tribal organization and the 
rule of endogamy enjoined by them does not do away with 
the rule of exogamy enjoined by the tribal organizations of 
Kuland Gotra. 

The importance of recognizing the fact that it is 
the family which is fundamental and not the sub-caste is 
obvious. It would lead to the study of the names of Kul 
and Gotva prevalent among Hindu families. Such a study 
would be a great help in determining the racial composition 
of the people of India. If the same Kul and Gotra were found 
to exist in different castes and communities it would be possi- 
ble to say that the castes though socially different were racially 
one. Two such studies have been made, onein Maharashtra 
by Risley! and another in the Punjab,? by hu Rose and the 

1. Census of India 1901. Ethnographical Appendices. 
2. Glossary of Tribes and Castes in the Punjab by Rose, Vol, 
It, p.16. 

64 The Untouchables 

result flatly contradict the theory that the Untouchables are 
racially different from the Aryans or the Dravidians. The main 
bulk of the population in Maharastra consists of Marathas. 
The Mahars are the Untouchables of Maharastra. The 
anthropological investigation shows that both have the same 
Aul. Indeed the identity is so great that there is hardly a Kul 
among the Marathas which is not to be found among the 
Mahars and there is no Kul among the Mahars which is not 
to be found among the Marathas. Similarly, in the Punjab 
one main stock of people consists of Jats. The Mazabi Sikhs 
are Untouchables most of them being Chamars by caste. 
Anthropological investigation shows that the two have the 
same Gotras. Given these facts how can it be argued that the 
Untouchables belong to a different race? As I have said if 
totem, kul, and gotra, have any significance it means that 
those who have the same totem must have been kindred. If 
they were kindred they could not be persons of different 
race. 

The racial theory of the origin of Untouchability muse, 

therefore, be abandoned. 

CHAPTER VIII 

Cccurpaticnal origin of Untouckability 

We may now turn to the occupational theory of the 
origin of Untouchability. According to Mr. Rice the origin 
of Untouchability is to be found in the unclean and filthy 
occupations of the Untouchables. The theory 1s a very 
plausible one. But there are certain difficulties in the way 
of its being accepted as a true explanation of the origin of 
Untoachability. The filthy and unclean occupations which 
the Untouchables perform are common to all human 
societies. In every human’ Society there are people 
who perform these occupations. Why were such 
people not treated as Untouchables in other parts of the 
world? The second question is: Did the Dravidians have 
a nausea against such callings or against persons engaged in 
them? Onthis point, there is no evidence. But we have 
evidence about the Aryans. That evidence shows that the 
Aryans were like other people and their notions of purity 
and impurity did not fundamentally differ from those of 
other ancient people. One has only to consider the following 
texts from Narada Smriti to show that the Aryans did not at 
all mind engaging themselves in filthy occupations. In Chap- 
ter V Narada is dealing with the subject matter of breach of 
contract of service’ In this Chapter, there occur the follow- 
ing verses : | 

1. The sages have distinguished five sorts of atten- 
dants according to law. Among these are four 
sorts of labourers; the slaves (are the fifth cate- 
gory of which there are) fifteen species. 

2. Astudent, an apprentice, a hired servant, and 
fourthly an official. 

3. The sages have declared that the state of depen- 
dence is common to all these but that their res- 
pective position and income depends on their 
particular caste and occupations. 

4. Know that there are two sorts of occupations ; 
pure work and impure work; impure work is that 

66 The Untouchables 

done by the slaves, Pure work is that done by 
labourers. 

5. Sweeping the gateway, the privy, the road and 
the place for rubbish; shampooing the secret parts 
of the body; gathering and putting away the 
leaving of food, ovdure and urine. 

6. And lastly, rubbing the master’s lumbs when de- 
sired; this should be regarded as impure work. 
All other work besides this is pure. 

25. Thus have the four classes of servants doing pure 
work been enumerated. All the others who do 
dirty work are slaves, of whom there are 
fifteen kinds:! 

It is clear that impure work was done by the slaves and 
that the impure work included scavenging. The question 
that arises is: Who were these slaves? Were they Aryans 
or non-Aryans? That slavery existed among the Aryans 
admits of no doubt. An Aryan could be a slave of an Aryan. 
No matter to what Varna an Aryan belonged he could bea 
slave. A Kshatriya could be aslave. So could a Vaishya. 
Even a Brahmin was not immune from the law of slavery. 
It is when Chaturvarna came to be recognized asa law of the 
land that a change was made in the system of slavery. What 
this change was can be seen from the following extract from 
the Narada Smriti : 

“39. In the inverse order of the (four) castes slavery 
is not ordained, except where a man violated 

Me rere oe eee oe —_—_ 

The fifteen classes of slaves are defined by the Narada Smiriti 
in the following verses : 

V. 26. One born at (his master’s) house; one purchased one 
received (by gift); one obtained by inkeritance; one 
maintained during a general famine; one pledged by his 
rightful owner. 

V. 27. One released from heavy debt; one made captive in fight; 
one won through a wager; one who has come forward 
declaring ‘Iam thine.’ An apostate from asceticism: 
one enslaved for a stipulated period. 

V. 28. One who has become slave in order to get a maintenance: 
one enslaved on account of his connection with a female 
slave; and one self-sold. These are 16 classes of slaveg 
as declared by law. 

Occupational origin of Untouchability 

- the duties peculiar to his caste. Slavery (in that - 
respect) is analogous to the condition of a wife.” 
Yajnavalkya also says that : 

“183(2) Slavery is in the descending order 
of the Varnas and not in the ascending order.” 

This is explained by Vijnaneswara in his Mitakshara, a 
Commentary on Yajnavalkya Smriti. in the following terms:— 

“Of the Varna such as the Brahmin and the rest, 
a state of slavery shall exist in the descending 
order (Anulomeyna). Thus, of a Brahmin, a 
Kshatriya and the rest may become a slave; of a 
Kshatriya, the Vaishya and the Shudra; and of a 
Vaishya, a Shudra; this state of slavery shall 
operate in the descending order.” 

The change was a mere reorganization of slavery and 
the basis of the principles of graded inequality which is the 
soul of Chaturvarna. To put it in a concrete form, the new 
law declared that a Brahmin could have a Brahmin, Kshat- 
riya, Vaishya and a Shudra as his slave. A Kshatriya could 
have a Kshatriya, a Vaishya and a Shudra as his slave. A 
Vaishya could have a Vaishya and a Shudra as his slave. A 
Shudra could have a Shudra only. With all this, the law of 
slavery remained and all Aryans whether they were Brahmins, 

Kshatriyas, Vaishyas or Shudras if they become slaves were 
subject to it. 

Having regard to the duties prescribed for the slaves, 
this change in the law of salavery does not matter at all. It 
still means that a Brahmin if he-wasa slave, a Kshatriya if he 
was a Slave, a Vaishya if he was a slave, did the work of a 
scavenger. Only a Brahmin would not do scavenging in the - 
house of a Kshatriya, Vaishya or a Shudra. But he would do 
scavenging in the house of a Brahmin. Similarly, a Kshatriya 
would do scavening in the house of a Brahmin and the 
Kshatriya. Only he would notdo in the house of a Vaishya or 
Shudra and a Vaishya would do scavenging in the house of a 
Brahmin; Kshatriya and Vaishya. Only he would not do it 
in the house of a Shudra. It is, therefore, obvious that the 
Brahmins, Kshatriyas and Vaishyas who are admittedly the 
Aryans did the work of scavengers which is the filthiest of 
filthy occupations. If scavenging was not loathsome to an 

64 The Untouchables 

Aryan how can it be said that engaging in filthy occupations 
was the cause of Untouchability. The theory of filthy occu- 

pation as an exaplanation of Untouchability is, therefore, not 
tenable. | 

PART IV 

New Theories of the Origin of Untouchability 
Chapter 8. Contempt for Buddhism as the 
Root of Untouchability. 

Chapter 9. Beef-eating as the Root of 
Untouchability. 

CHAPTER VIII 
Contempt for Buddhists as the Root of Untouchability! 
I 

The Census Reports for India published by the Census 
Cornmissioner at the interval of every ten years from 1870 
onw. rds contain a wealth of information nowhere else to be 
found regarding the Social and religious life of the people 
of India. Before the Census of 1910 the Census Commissio- 
ner had a column called “Population by Religion”. Under 
this heading the population was shown (1) Muslims, (2) 
Hindus, (3) Christains, etc. The Census Report for the year 
1910 marked a new departure from the prevailing practice. 
For the first time it divided the Hindus under three separate 
categories, (i) Hindus. (ii) Annimists and Tribal, and (iii) the 
Depressed Classes or Untouchables. This new classification 
has been continued ever since. 

II 

This departure from the practice of the previous 
Census Commissioners raises three questions. First is what 
led the Commissioner for the Census of 1910 to introduce 
this new classification. The second is what was the criteria 
adopted as a basis for this classification. The third is what 
are the reasons for the growth of certain practices which 
justify the division of Hindus into three separate categories 
mentioned above. 

The answer to the first question will be found in the 
address presented in 1909 by the Muslim Community under 
leadership of H.H. The Aga Khan to the then Viceroy, Lord 
Minto, in which they asked for a separate and adequate 
representation for the Muslim community in the _legis- 

lature, executive and the public services. In the address’ 

en ee 

1, For the text of the address see my Pakistan p. 431, 

72 

The Untouchables 

there occurs the following passage :— 

“The Mohamedans of India number, according to 

the census taken in the year 1901 over sixty-two 
millions or between one-fifth and one-fourth of 
the total population of His Majesty's Indian 
dominions, and if a reduction be made for the 
uncivilised portions of the community enumerated 
under the heads of animist and other minor religions, 
as well as for those classes who are ordinarily 
classified as Hindus but properly speaking are not 
fiindus atall, the proportion of Manomedans to 
the Hindu Majority becomes much larger. We 
therefore desire to submit that under any system ot 
representation extended or limited a community in 
itself more numerous than the entire population of 
any first class European power except Russia may 
justly lay claim to adequate recognition as an impor- 
tant factor in the State. 

“We ventrue, indeed, with Your Excellency’s 
permission to go a step further, and urge that the 
position accorded to the Mohamedan community in 
any kind of representation direct or indirect, and in 
all other ways effecting their status and influence 
should be commensurate, not merely with their 
numercial strength but also with their political 
importance and the value of the contribution which 
they make to the defence of the empire, and we also 
hope that Your Excellency will in this connection be 
pleased to give due consideration to the position 
which they occupied in India a little more than 
hundred years ago and of which thetraditions have 
naturally not faded from their minds. 

The portion in italics has a special significance. It was 

introduced in the address to suggest that in comprising the 
numerical strength of the Muslims with that of the Hindus 
the population of the animists, tribal and the Untouchables 
should be excluded. The reason for this new classification of 
‘Hindus’ adopted by ‘the Census Commissioner in 1910 lies 
in this demand of the Muslim community for separate re- 
presentation on augmented scale. Atany rate this is how 

me wee een. 

1, Italics not in the original. 

Contempt for Buddhists as the Root of Untouchability 78 

the Hindus understood this demand.’ 

Interesting as itis the first question as to why the 
Census Commissioner made this departure in the system of 
classification is of less importance than the second question. 
What is important is to know the basis adopted by the 
Census Commissioner for separating the different classes of 
Hindus into (1) Those who were hundred per cent Hindus 
and (2) those who were not. 

The basis adopted by the Census Commissioner for 
separation is to be found in the circular issued by the Census 
in which he laid down certain tests for the purpose? of distin- 
guishing these two classes. Among those who were not 
hundred per cent Hindus were included castes and tribes 
which:— 

(1) Deny the supremacy of the Brahmins. 

(2) Do not receive the Mantra froma Brahmin or 
other recognized Hindu Guru. 

(3) Deny the authority of the Vedas. 

(4) Do not worship the Hindu gods. 

(5) Are not served by good Brahmins as family 
priests. 

(6) Have no Brahmin priests at all. 

(7) Are denied access to the interior of the Hindu 
temples. 

(8) Cause pollution (a) by touch, or (b) withena 
certain distance. 

(9) Bury their dead. 
(10) Eat beef and do no reverence to the cow. 

1. This operation came soon after the address given by Muslim 
community to Lord Minto in 1909 in which they asked for a separate and 
adequate representation for the Muslim community. The Hindu smelt a 
rat in it. As the Census Commissioner observed:— | 

“Incidentally, the enquiry generated a certain amount of heat, 
because unfortunately it happened to be made at atime when the rival 
claims of Hindus and Mohammedans to representation on the Lagislative 
Councils were being debated and some of the former feared that it would 
lead to the exclusion of certain classes from the category of Hindus and 
would thus react unfavourably on their political importance”. Part I. p. 116,° 

2. See Census of India (1911}. Part I. p. 117. 

14 The Untouchables 

Out of these ten tests some divide the Hindus from the 
Animists and the Tribal. The rest divide the Hindus from 
the Untouchables. Those that divide the Untouchbles from 
the Hindus are (2), (5), (6) , (7) , and (40). Itis with them 

that we are chiefly concerned. 

For the sake of clarity it is better to divide these tests 
into parts and consider them separately. This Chapter will 
be devoted only to the consideration ot (2), (5), and (6). 

The replies received by the Census Commissioner to 
questions embodied in tests (2) , (5) and (6) reveal (1) that 
the Untouchables do not receive the Mantra from a Brahmin; 
(2) that the Untouchables are not served by good 
Brahmin priests at all; and (3) that Untouchables have their 
own priests reared from themselves. On these facts the 
Census Commissioners of all Provinces are unanimous.! 

Of the three questions the third is the most impor- 
tant. Unfortunately the Census Commissioner did not 
realize this. For in making his inquiries he failed to go to 
the root of the matter to find out: Why were the Un- 

‘touchables not receiving the Mantra from the Brahmin? Why 
Brahmins did not serve the Untouchables as their family 
priests? Why do the Untouchables prefer to have their own 
priests? It is the ‘why’ of these facts which is more impor- 
tant than the existence of these facts. It is the ‘why’ of these 
facts which must be investigated. For the clue to the origin 
of Untouchability lies hidden behind it. 

Before entering upon this investigation, it must be 
pointed out that the inquiries by the Census Commissioner 
were in a sense one-sided. They showed that the Brahmins 
shunned the Untouchables. They did not bring to light the 
fact that the Untouchables also shunned the Brahmins. 
Nonetheless, it is a fact. People are somuch accustomed to 
thinking that the Brahmin is the superior of the Untoucha- 
bles and the Untouchable accepts himself as his inferior; that 
this statement that the Untouchables look upon the Beahmin 
as an impure person is sure to come to them as a matter of 

eee 

ES a 
rrr 

eee, 

1. See Census of 1911 for Assam p.40s for Bengal, Bihar & Grisa p. 
232; for C.P.p.73; for Madras p.61: for Punjab p.109; for U.P.p.121; for 

Baroda p.55; for Mysore p.63; for Rajputana pp.94—105; for Travan- 
core p.198,. 

Contempt for Buddhists as the Root of Untouchability 46 

great surprise. The fact has however been noted by many 
writers who have observed and examined the social customs 
of the Untouchables. To remove any doubt on the point, 
attention is drawn to the following extracts from their 
writings:— 

The fact was noticed by Abbe Dubois who says:- 
“Even to this day a Pariah is not allowed to pass a 
Brahmin Street in a village. though nobody can 
prevent, or prevents, his approaching or passing by a 
Brahmin’s house in towns. The Pariahs, on their part 
will under no circumstances, allow a Brahmin to pass 
through their paracherries (collection of Pariah huts) 
as they firmly believe it will lead to their ruin’. 

Mr. Hemingsway, the Editor of the Gazetteer of the 
Tanjore District says:- 
“These casts (Parayan and Pallan or Chakkiliyan castes 
of Tanjore District) strongly object to the entrance of 
a Brahmin into their quarters believing that harm will 
result to them therefrom”. 

Speaking of the Holeyas of the Hasan District of 
Mysore, Captain J.S.F. Mackenzie says:- 

“Every village has its Holigiri ? as the quarters inhabit- 
ed by the Holiars, formerly agrestic serfs, is called 
outside the village boundary hedge. This, I thought 
was because they were considered as impure race, 
whose touch carries defilement with it,’ 

Such is the reason generally given by the Brahmins 
who refuse to receive anything directly from the hands of a 
Holiar, and yet the Brahmins consider great luck will wait 
upon them if they can manage to pass through the Holigirj 
without being molested. To this Holiars have a strong 
objection, and, should a Brahmin attempt to enter their 
quarters, they turn out in a body and slipper him, in former 
times, it is said, to death. Members of the other castes may 
come as far as the door, but they must not enter the house, 
for that would bring the Holiar bad luck. If, by chance, a 

1. Hindu Manners and Customs (3rd Edition) p. 61 f.n. 
2. Gazetteer of Tanjore District (1906) p. 80. 
8. Indian Antiquary 1073 II. 65. 

16 The Untouchables 

person happens to get in, the owner takes care to tear the 
intruder’s cloth, tie up some salt in one corner of it, and turn 
him out. This is supposed to neutralise allthe good luck 
which might have accrued to the tresspasser, and avert any 
evil which ought to have befallen the owner of the house. 

| What is the explanation of this strange phenomenon ? 
The explanation must of course fit in with the situation as 
it stood at the start, 1. e. whenthe Untouchables were not 
Untouchables but were only Broken Men. We must ask 
why the Brahmins refused to officiate at the religious cerem- 
nies of the Broken Men? Is it the case that the Brahmins 
refused to officiate? Or is it that the Broken Men refused to 
invite them? Why did the Brahmin regard Broken Men as 
impure? Why did the Broken Men regard the Brahmins as 
impure? What is the basis of this antipathy? 

This antipathy can be explained on one hypothesis. It 
is that the Broken Men were Buddhists. As such they.did 
not revere the Brahmins, did not employ them as their priests 
and regarded them asimpure. The Brahmin onthe other 
hand disliked the Broken Men because they were Buddhists 
and preached against them contempt and hatred with the 
result that the Broken Men come to be regarded as 

Untouchables. 

We have no direct evidence that the Broken Men were 
Buddhists. No evidence is asa matter of fact necessary 
when the majority of Hindus were Buddhists. We may 

take it that they were. 

That there existed hatred and abhorrence against the 
Buddhists in the mind of the Hindus and that this feeling 
was created by the Brahamins is not without support. 

Nilkant in his Prayaschit Mayukha' quotes a verse from 
Manu which says:- 

“If a person touches a Buddhist or a flower of Pachupat, 

Lokayataka, Nastika and Mahapataki he shall purify 

himself by a bath.” 

ee en ee a ee 

1. Edited by Gharpure, p. 95. 

Contempt for Buddhists as the Root of Untouchability 7% 

The same doctrine is preached by Apararka in his 
Smriti.. Vradha Harit goes further and declares entry into 
the Buddhist Temple as sin requiring a purifactory bath for 
removing the impurity. 

How widespread had become this spirit of hatred and 
contempt against the followers of Buddha can be observed 
from the science depicted in Sanskrit dramas. The most 
striking illustration of this attitude towards the Buddhists is 
to be found in the Mricchakatika. In Act VII of that Drama 
the hero Charudatta and his friend Maitriya are shown 
waiting for Vasantasena in the park outside the city. She 
fails to turn up and Charudatta decides to leave the park. As 
they are leaving, they see the Buddhist monk by name 
Samvahaka. On seeing him, Charudatta says :— 

“Friend Maitrya, I am anxious to meet Vasantsena... 
Come, let us go. (After walking a little) Ah ! here’s 
an tnauspicious sight, a Buddhist monk coming 
towards us. (After a little reflection) well, let him 
come this way, we shall follow this other path. (Exit.) 

In Act VIII, the monk is in the Park of Sakara, the 
King’s brother-in-law, washing his clothes in a pool. Sakara 
accompanied by Vita, turns up and threatens to kill the 
monk. The following conversation between them is 
revealing : 

“Sak— Stay, you wicked monk. 

Monk—Ah! Here’s the king’s brother-in-law ! Be- 
cause some monk has offended him, he 
now beats up any monk he happens to meet. 

Sak— Stay, I will now break your head as one 
breaks a radish in a tavern. (Beats him). 

Vita— Friend, it is not proper to beat a monk who 
has put on the saffron-robes, being disgusted 
with the world. 

Monk—( Welcomes) Be pleased, lay brother. 
Sak— Friend, see. He is abusing me. 
Vita— What does he say ? 

1. Smriti Sammuchaya [I p. 118. 

18 The Untouchables 

Sak— He calls me lay brother (upasaka). Am | 
a barber ? 

Vita— Oh! He is really praising you as a devotee 
of the Buddha. 

Sak— Why has he come here ? 
Monk—To wash these clothes. 

Sak— Ah! you wicked monk. Even I myself do 
not bathe in this pool; I shall kill you with 
one stroke.” 

After a lot of beating, the monk is allowed to go. Here is 
a Buddhist Monk in the midst of the Hindu crowd. He is 
shunned and avoided. The feeling of disgust against him is so 
great that the people even shun the road the monk is travel- 
ling. The feeling of repulsion isso intense that the entry 
of the Buddhist was enough to cause the exit of the 
Hindus. The Buddhist monk is on a par with the Brahmin. 
A Brahmin is immune from death-penalty. He is even free 
from corporal punishment. But the Buddhist monk is 
beaten and assaulted without remorse, without compunction 
as though there was nothing wrong in it. 

If we accept that the Broken Men were the followers 
of Buddhism and did not care to return to Brahmanism 
when it became triumphant over Buddhism as easily as 
other did, we have an explanation for both the questions. It 
explains why the Untouchables regard the Brahmins as 
inauspicious, do not employ them as their priest and do not 
even allow them to enter into their quarters. It also explains 
why the Broken Men came to be regarded as Untouchables. 
The Broken Men hated the Brahmins because the Brahmins 
were the enemies of Buddhism and the Brahmin imposed 
untouchability upon the Broken Man because they would 
not leave Buddhism. Onthisreasoning it is possible to conclude 
that one of the roots of untouchability lies in the hatred and 
contempt which the Brahmins created against those who 
were Buddhist. 

Can the hatred between Buddhism and Brahmanism 
be taken to be the sole cause why Broken Men became 
Untouchables? Obviously, it cannot be. The hatred and 
contempt preached by the Brahmins was directed against 

Contempt for Buddhists as the Root of Untouchability 79 

Buddhists in general and not against the Broken Men in 
particular. Since untouchability stuck to Broken Men only, it 
is obvious that there was some additional circumstance 
which has played its part in fastening untouchability upon 
the Broken Men. What that circumstance could have been ? 
We ‘ee next direct our effort in the direction of ascertain- 
ing it. 

CHAPTER IX 
Beef-eating as the Root of Untouchability 

We now take up test No. 10 referred to in-the circular 
issued by the Census Commissioner and to which reference 
has already been made in the previous chapter. The test 
refers to’ beef-eating. 

The Census Returns show that the meat of the dead 
cow forms the Chief item of food consumed by communities 
which are generally classified as untouchable communities. 
No Hindu community, however low, will touch cow’s flesh. 
On the other hand, there is no community which is really 
an Untouchable community which has not something to d> 
with the dead cow. Some eat her flesh, some remove the 
skin, some manufacture articles out of her skin and bones. 

From the survey of the Census Commissioner, it 1s 
well established that Untouchables eat beaf. The question 
however is : Has beaf-eating any relation to the origin of 
Untouchability ? Or is it merely an incident in the economic 
life of the Untouchables. Can we say that the Broken Men 
came to be treated as Untouchables because they ate beef ? 
There need be no hesitation in returning an affirmative 
answer to this question. No other answer is consistent with 
facts as we know them. 

In the first place, we have the fact that the Untouch- 
ables or the main communities which compose them eat 
the dead cow and those who eat the dead cow are tainted 
with untouchability and no others. The co-relation between 
untouchability and the use of the dead cow is so great and 
so close that the thesis that it is the root of untouchability 
seems to be incontrovertible. In the second place if there 
is anything that separates the Untouchables from the 
Hindus it is beef-eating. Even a superficial view of the food 
taboos of the Hindus will show that there are two taboos 
regarding food which serve as dividing lines. There is one 
taboo against meat-eating. It divides Hindus into vegetarians 
and flesh-eaters. There is another taboo which is against 

Beef-eating as the Root of Untouchability 81 

beef-eating. It divides Hindus into those who eat cow’s flesh 
and those who do not. From the point of view of untouch- 
ability the first dividing lineis of no importance. But the 
second is. For it completely marks off the Touchables from 
the Untouchables. The Touchables whether they are 
vegetarians or flesh-eaters are united in their objection to 
eat cow’s flesh. As against them stand the Untouchables 
who eat cow’s flesh without compunction and as a matter of 
course and habit. 

In this context it is not far-fetched to suggest that 
those who have a nausea against beef-eating should treat 
those who eat beef as Untouchables. 

There is really no necessity to enter upon any specula- 
tion as to whether beef-eating was or was not the principal 
reason for the rise of Untouchability. This new theory 
receives support from the Hindu Shastras. The Veda Vyas 
Smriti contains the following verse which specifies the 
communities which are included in the category of Antyajas 
and the reasons why there were so included. 

L. 12-13 “The Charmakars (Cobbler) the Bhatta (Soldier) 
the Bhilla, the Rajaka (washerman), the 

Puskara, the Nata (actor) the Vrata, the Meda, 
the Chandala, the Dasa, the Sovapaka, and the 
Kolika—these ‘are known as Antyajas as well 
as others who eat cow’s filesh.” 

Generally speaking the Smritikars never care to 
explain the why and the how of their dogmas. But this case 
is exception. For inthis case, Veda Vyas does explain the 
cause of untouchability. The clause “as well as others who 
eat cow’s flesh” is very important. It shows that the 
Smritikars knew that the origin of untouchablity is to be 
found in the eating of beef. The dictum of Veda Vyas must 

1. The Untouchables have felt the force of the accusation levelled 
against them by the Hindus for eating beef. Instead of giving up the 
habit the Untouchables have invented a philosophy which justifies eating 
the beef ofthe dead cow. The gist of the philosophy is that eating the flesh 
of the dead cow is a better way of showing respect to the cow than 
throwing her carcass to the wind. 

2. ee in Kan’s History of Dharma Shastra—Vol. 11, Part 1 
p 7 

82 The Untouchables 

close the arguement. It comes, so to say, straight from the 
horse’s mouth and what is important is that it is also rational 
for it accords with facts as we know them. 

The new approach in the search for the origin of 
Untouchability has brought to the surface two sources of 
the origin of Untouchability. One is the general atmosphere 
of scorn and contempt spread by the Brahamins against 
those who were Buddhists and the second is the habit of beef- 
eating kept on by the Broken Men. As has been said the 
first circumstance could not be sufficient to account for 
stigma of Untouchability attaching itself to the Broken Men. 
For the scorn and contempt for Buddhist spread by the 
Brahmins was too general and affected all Buddhists and not 
merely the Broken Men. The reason why Broken Men only 
became Untouchables was because in addition to being 
Buddhists they retained their habit of beef-eating which 
gave additional ground for offence to the Brahmins to carry 
their new-found love and reverence to the cow to its 
logical conclusion. We may therefore conclude that the 
Broken Men were exposed to scorn and contempt on the 
ground that they were Buddhist the main cause of their 
Untouchability was beef-eating. 

The theory of beef-eating as the cause of untouchability 
also gives rise to many questions. Critics are sure to ask: 
What is the cause of the nausea which the Hindus have 
against beef-eating? Were the Hindus always opposed to 
beef-eating? It not, why did they develop such a nausea 
against it? Were the Untouchables given to beef-eating 
from the very start? Why did they not give up becf-eating 
when it was abandoned by the Hindus? Were the Untou- 
chables always Untouchables? If there was a time when the 
Untouchables were not Untouchables even though they ate 
beef why should beef-eating give rise to Untouchability at a 
later-stage? If the Hindus were eating beef, when did they 
give it up? If Untouchability is a reflex of the nausea of the 
Hindus against beef-eating, how long after the Hindus had 
given up beef-eating did Untouchability come in to being? 
These questions must be answered. Without an answer to 
these questions, the theory will remain under cloud. It will be 
regarded as plausible but may not be accepted as conclusive, 

Beef-eating as the Root of Untouchability 83 

Having put forth the theory, I am bound to answer these 
questions. I propose to take up the following heads :— 

(1) Did the Hindus never eat beef ? 
(2) What led the Hindus to give up beef-eating ? 

(3) What led the Brahmins to become vegetarians ? 

(4) alg did beef-eating give rise to Untouchability ? 
an 

(5) When was Untouchability born ? 

PART ¥ 

The New Theories and Some Questions. 

Chapter XI. Did the Hindus never eat beef ? 
Chapter NII. Why did non-Brahmins give up beef-cating ? 

Chapter NITI. What made the Brahmins to become vege- 
tarians ? 

Chapter XIV. Why should -eef-eating make Broken Men 
Untouchables ? 

CHAPTER XI 
Did the Hindus Never Eat Beef ? 

To the question whether the Hindus ever ate beef, 
every Touchable Hindu, whether he is a Brahmin or a non- 
Brahmin, will say ‘no, never.’ In a certain sense, he is right. 
From times no Hindu has eaten beef. If this is all that the 
Touchable Hindu wants to convey by hiis answer there need 
be no quarrel over it. But when the learned Brahmins argue 
that the Hindus not only never ate beef but that they always 
held the cow to be sacred and were always opposed to the 
killing of the cow, it is impossible to accept their view. 

What is the evidence in support of the construction 

that the Hindus never ate beef and were opposed to the 
killing of the cow ? 

There are two series of references in the Rig Veda op 
which reliance is placed. In one of these, the cow is spoken 
of as Aghnya. They are Rig Veda 1. 164,27; IV. 1.6; V.82-8; 
VII. 69 71; X.87. Aghnya means ‘one who does not deserve 
to be killed” From this, it is argued that this was a_ prohibi- 
tion against the killing of the cow and that since the Vedas 
are the final authority in the matter of religion, itis conclu- 
ded that the Aryans could not have killed the cows, much 
less could they have eaten beef. In another series of 
references the cow is spoken of as sacred. They are Rig 
Veda V1.28.1.8. and VIIL10115, In these verses the cow is 
addressed as Mother of Rudras, the Daughter of Vasus, the 
Sister of the Adityas and the Centre of Nectar. Another 
reference on the subject is in Rig Veda VIII101,16 where 
the cow is called Devi (Goddess). 

Raliance is also placed on certain passages in ‘the 
Brahmanas and Sutras. 

There are two passages in the Satapatha Brahmana 
which relate to animal sacrifice and beef-eating. One is at 
IT. 1.2.21 and reads as follows :— 

“ He (the Adhvaryu) then makes him enter the 
hall. Let him not eat (the flesh) of either the 

Did the Hindus Never Eat Beef 87 

cow or the ox, for the cow and the ox doubtless 
support everything here onearth. The goods 
spake, ‘verily, the cow and the ox support every- 
thing here; come, let us bestow on the cow and 
the ox whatever vigour belonged to other species 
(of animals); and therefore the cow and the ox 
eat most. Hence were one to eat (the flesh) of 
an ox or acow, there would be, as it were, an 
eating of everything, or, as it were. a going to 
the end (or, to destruction)... Let him therefore 
not eat (the flesh) of the cow and the ox.” 

The other passage is at 1,2,3,6. It speaks against 
animal sacrifice and on ethical grounds. 

A similar statement is contained in the Apastambha 
Dharma Sutra at 1.5.17, 29. Apastambha lays a general 
embargo on the eating or cow’s flesh. 

Such is vidence in support of the contention that 
the Hindus never ate beef. What conclusion can be drawn 
from this evidence ? 

So far as the evidence from the Rig Veda is concerned 
the conclusion is based on a misreading and misunderstand- 
ing of the texts. The adjective Aghnya applied to the cow in 
the Rig Veda means a cow that was yielding milk and 
therefore not fit for being killed. That the cow is venerated 
in the Rig Veda is: of course true. But this regard and 
venerations of the cow are only to be expected from an 
agricultural community like the Indo-Aryans. This applica- 
tion of the utility of the cow did not prevent the Aryan 
from killing the cow for purposes of food. Indeed the cow 
was killed because the cow was regarded as sacred. As 
observed by Mr. Kane: 

“It was not that the cow was not sacred‘in Vedic 
times, it was because of her sacredness that it is 
ordained in the Vajnasaneyi Samhita that beef should 
be eaten.”! 

That the Aryans of the Rig Veda did kill cows for 
purposes of food and ate beef is abundantly clear from the 
Rig Veda itself. In Rig Veda (X. 86. 14) Indra. says: —“They 

1, Dharma Shastra Vichar (Marathi) p. 180, 

88 . The Untouchables 

cook for one 15 plus twenty oxen. The Rig Veda (X. 91. 14) 
says that for Agni were sacrificed horses, bulls, oxen, barren 
cows and rams. From the Rig Veda (X. 72. 6) it appears that 
the cow was killed with a sword or axe. 

As to the testimony of the Satapatha Bramhana, can 
it be said to be conclusive? Obviously, it cannot be. For 
there are passages in the other Bramhanas which give a 

different opinion. 

To give only one instance. Among the Kamyashtis 
set forth in the Taittiriya Bramhana, not only the 
sacrifice of oxen and cows are laid down, but we are even 
told what kind and description of oxen and cow are to he 
offered to what dieties. Thus, a dwarf ox. is_ tobe 
chosen for sacrifice to Vishnu; a drooping horned bull with 
a blaze on the forehead to Indra as _ the destroyer of Vrita; 
a black cow to Pushan; a red cow to Rudra; and so on. The 
Taithiriya Bramhana notes another sacrifice called 
Panchasavadiya-seva, the most important element of which 
was the immolation of seventeen five-year old humpless, 
dwraf-bulls, and as many dwarf heifers under three year-old. 

As against the statement of the Apasthamba Dharma 
Sutra, the following points may be noted. 
First is the contrary statement contained in that 

Very Sutra, At 1.5,14,29, the Sutra says:- 

“The cow and the bull are sacred and therefore 
should be eaten”. 

The second is the prescription of Madhuparka contain- 
ed in the Grahya Sutras. Among the Aryans the etipuette 
for receiving important guests had become settled in to 
custom and had become a ceremony. The most important 
offering was Madhupark. A Detailed descriptions regarding 
Madhuparka are to be found in the various Grahya Sutras. 
According to most of the Grahya Sutras there are six 
persons who have a right to be served with Madhuparka 
namely, (1) Ritwija or the Brahmin called to perform a 
a sacrifice, (2) Acharya the teacher, (3) The bridegroom (4) 
The King (5) The Snatak, the student who has just finished 
his studies at the Gurukul and (6) Any person who is dear to 

Did the Hindus Never Eat Beef 89 

the host. Some add Atithi to this list. Except in the case of 
Ritvija, King and Acharya Madhuparka is to be offered to the 
rest once in a year. To the Ritvija, King and Acharya it 1s 
to be offered each time they come. : 

What wasthis Madhuparka made of ? There is divergence 
about the substances mixed in offering Madhuparka. Asv.gr 
and Ap.gr. (13. 10) prescribe a mixture of honey and 
curds or clarified butter and curds. Others like Par.gr.13 
prescribe a mixture of three (curds, honey and butter). Ap. 
gr. (13.11-12) states the view of some that those three may 
be mixed or five (those three with fried yava grain and 
barley’. Hir.gr.I.,.1210-12 give the option of mixing three 
of five (curds, honey, ghee, water and ground grain). The 
Kausika Satra (92) speaks of nine kinds of mixtures, sz., 
Brahma (honey and curds). Aindra (of payasa), Saumya 
(curds and ghee), Pausna (ghee and mantha), Sarasvata 
(milk and ghee), Mausala (wine and ghee, this being used only 
in Sautramanai and Rajasuya sacrifices), Parivrajaka (sesame 
oil and oil cake). The Madava gr.I.9,22 says that the veda 
declares that the Madhuparka must not be without flesh and 
so it recommends that if the cow is let loose, goat’s meat or 
payase (rice cookad in milk) may be offered; the Hir.gr. 1.13, 
14 says that other meat should be offered; Baud.gr. (1.2,51-54) 
says that when the cow is let off the flesh of a goat or ram 
may be offered or some forest flesh (of a deer, etc.) may be 
offered, asthere can be no Madhuparka without flesh or if 
one is unable to offer flesh one may cook ground grains. 

Thus the essential element in Madhuparka is flesh and 
particularly cow’s flesh. 

The killing of cow for the guest had grown to such an 
extent that the guest came to be called ‘Go-gnha’ which means 
the killer of the cow. To avoid this slaughter of the cows 
the Ashvalayana Grahya Sutra (1.24.25) suggests that the 
cow should be let loose when the guest comes so as to escape 
the rule of etiquette. 

Thirdly, reference may be to the ritual relating to disp- 
osal of the dead to counter the testimony of the Apastambha 
Dharma Sutra. The Sutra says:- 

ee a ee 

J. Kane's vol. If. Part I p.645 

“1. 

Ww 

‘13. 
14. 

18. 

19. 

The Untouchables 

He should then put the following (sacrificial) 
implements (on the deadbody). 

Into the right hand the (spoon called) Guhu, 
Into the left the (other spoon called) Upabhrit. 
On his right side the wooden sacrificial sword 
ey Sphya, on his left side the Agnihotraha- 
vani {i4.e., the laddle with which the Agnihotra 
oblations are sacrificed). 

On his chest the (big sacificial laddle called) 
Dhruva. On his head the dishes. On _ his 

_ teeth the pressing stones. 

On the two sides of his nose the two smaller 
sacrificial laddles called Sruvas. 

Or, if there is only one (Sruva). breaking it 
(in two pieces). 

On his two ears the two Prasitraharanas (i.e, 
the vessels into which the portion of the sacri- 
ficial food belonging to the Brahmin) is put 
Or, if there is only one (Prasitraharana), breaking 
it (in two pieces), 

On his belly the (vessel called) Patri. 

And the cup into which the cut-off portion (of 
the sacrificial food) are put. 

On his secret parts the (staff called) Samya. 
On his thighs two kindling woods. 

On his legs the mortar and the pestle. 

On his feet the two baskets. 

Or, if there is only one(basket), bearing it in 
two pleces. 

Those of the implements which have a hollow 
(into which liquids can be poured) are filled 
with sprinkled butter. | 
The son (of the deceased person) should take 
the under and the upper mill-stone for himself. 
And the implements made of copper. iron and. 
earthenware. 

20. 

21. 

22. 
23. 
24. 

‘20, 

26. 

27. 

Did the Hindus Never Eat Beef 91 

Taking out the omentum of the she-animal he 
should cover therewith the head and the 
mouth (of the dead person) with the verse, ‘But 
on the armour (which will protect thee) against 
Agni, by that which comes from the cows.’ (Rig 
Ved.X.16.7. 

Taking out the kidneys of the animal he should 

lay them into the hands (of the dead body) 

with the verse escape the two hounds, the sons 

of Sarma (Rig Veda X 1410) the right kidney 

—_—— right hand and the left into the left 
and. 

The heart of the animals he puts on the heart 
of the deceased. 

And two lumps of flour or rice according to 
some teachers. 

Only if there are no kidneys according to some 
teachers. 

Having distributed the whole (animal), limb by 
limb (placing its different limbs on the corresp- 
onding limbs of the deceased) and having 
covered it with its hide, he recites when the 
Pranita water is carried forward (the verse), 
‘Agni’ do not overturn this cup. (Rig Veda, 
X,16.8). 

Bending his left knee he should sacrifice Yugya 
oblation into the Dakshina fire with the formu- 
las‘To Agni Svahai; to Kama Svaha To the 
world Svaha to Anumati Svaha’. 

A fifth (oblation) on the chest of the deceased 
with the formula ‘from this one verily thou- 
hast been born. May he now be born out of 
thee. To the heaven worlds avaha,.” | 7 

From the above passage quoted from the Ashvalayan 
Grahya Sutra it is clear that among the ancient Indo-Aryans 
when a person died an animal had to be killed and the parts 
of the animal were placed on the appropriate parts of the 

deadbody before the deadbody was burned. 

49 he Untouchables 

Such is the state of the evidence on the subject of cow- 
killing and beef-eating. Which part of it is to be accepted 
as true? The correct view is that the testimony of the Sata- 
patha Brahmana and the Apastambha Dharma Sutra in so far 
as it supports the view that Hindus were against cow-killing 
and beef-eating, are merely exhortation against the excesses of 
cow-killing and not prohibitions against cow-killing. Indeed 
the exhortations prove that cow-killing and eating of beef 
had become a common practice. That notwithstanding these 
exhortations cow-killing and _ beef-eating continued. That 
most often they fell on deaf ears is proved by the conduct 
of Yajnavalkya, the great Rishi of the Aryans. The first 
passage quoted above from the Satapatha Brahmana was 
really addressed to Yajnavalkya as an exhortation. How did 
Yajnavalkya respond? After listening to the exhotation this 
is what Yajnavalkya said:- : 

“I, for one, eat it, provided that it is tender” ‘ 

That the Hindus at one time did kill cows and did eat 
beef is proved abundantly by the description of the Yajnas 
given in the Buddhist Sutras which relate to periods much 
later than the Vedas and the Brahmanas. The scale on which 
the slaughter of cows and animals took place was collosal. It is 
not possible to give a total of such slaughter on all accounts 
committed by the Brahmins in the name of religion. Some 
idea of the extent of this slaughter can however be had from 
references to it in the Buddhist literature. As an illustration 
refernce may be made tothe Kutadanta Sutta in which 
Buddha preached against the performance of animal sacrifices 
to Brahmin Kutadanta. Buddha though speaking in a tone of 
sarcastic travesty gives a good idea of the practices and rituals 
of the Vedic sacrifices when he said: 

“ And further, O Brahmin, at that sacrifice 
neither were any oxen slain, neither goats, nor 
fowls, nor fatted pigs, nor were any kind of 
living creatures put to death. No trees were 
* cut down to be used as posts, no Darbha 
grasses mowen to stressround the sacrificial spot. 
And the slaves and messengers and workmen 
there employed were driven neither by rods nor 

Did the Hindus Never Eat Beef 93 

fear, nor carried on their work weeping with 
tears upon their faces.” 

Kutadanta on the other hand in thanking Buddha for 
his conversion gives an idea of the magnitude of the slaughter 
of animals which took place at such sacrifices when he says:- 

“TI, even I, betake myself to the venerable Gotama 
as my guide, to the Doctrine and the Order, May 
the venerable One accept me as a disciple, as one 
who, from this day forth, as long as life endures, 
has taken him as his guide, and I myself, O, Got- 
ama, will have the seven hundred bulls, and the 
seven hundred steers, and the seven hundred 
heifers, and the seven hundred goats,and the 
seven hundred rams set free. To thee I grant 
their life. Let them eat grass and drink fresh 
water and may cool breezes waft round them.” 

In the Samyuta Nikaya ([1I,1-9) we have another descrip- 
tion of a Yajna performed by Pasenadi, king of Kosala. It 
is said that five hundred bulls, five hundred calves and many 
heifers, goats and rams were led to the pillar to be sacrificed. 

With this evidence no one can doubt that there was a time 

when Hindus-both Brahmins and non--Brahmins ate not only 
flesh but also beef. 

CHAPTER XII 
Why Did Non-Brahmins give up Beef-eating ? 

The food habits of the different classes of Hindus 
heve been as fixed and stratified as their cults. Just as 
Hindus can be classified on their basis of their cults so also 
they can be classified onthe basis of their habits of tood. 
On the basis of their cults, Hindusare either Suaivites 
(followers of Siva) or Vaishnavites (followers of Vishnu). 
Similarly, Hindus are either Mansahari (those who eat 
flesh) or Shakahari (those who are vegitarians). 

For ordinary purposes the division of Hindus into two 
classes Mansahari and Shakahart may be enough. But it 
must be admitted that it is not exhaustive and does not take 
account of all the classes which exist in Hindu society. For 
an exhaustive classification, the class of Hindus called 
Manssahuri shall have to be further divided into two sub- 
clas es (i) Those who eat flesh but do not eat cow’s flesh; 
and (ii) Those who eat flesh including caw’s flesh. In other 
words, on the basis of food taboos, Hindu — society follows 
into three classes: (i) Those who are vegetarians; (ii) Those 
who eat flesh but do not eat cow’s flesh; and (ii1) Those 
who eat flesh including cow’s flesh. Corresponding to this 
classification, we have in Hindu society three classes: 
(1) Brahmins; (2) Non-Brahmins; and (3) The Untouch- 
ables. This division though not in accord with the fourfold 
division of society called Chaturvarnya, yet it is .in accord 
with facts as they exist. For, in the Brahmins! we have a 
class which is vegetarian, in the non-Brahmins the class which 
eats flesh but does not eat cow’s flesh and in the Untouchables 
a class which eats flesh including cow’s flesh. 

This threefold division is therefore substantial and is in 
accord with facts. Anyone who spots to turn over this class- 
ification in his mind is bound to be struck by the position of 

oe = pe ee ee = ce eee co ene 

I. The Brahmins of India fall into two divisions (1) Pancha Dravid 
and (2) Panch Ganda The former are vegetarians, the later are 
not. 

Why Did Non-Brahmins give up Beef-eating 95 

the Non-Brahmins. One can quite understand vegetarianism. 
One can quite understand meat-eating. But it is difficult to 
understand why a person who is a flesh-eater should object 
to one kind of flesh namely cow’s flesh. This is an anamoly 
which call for explanation. Why did the Non-Brahmin give 
up beef-eating? For this purpose it is necessary to examine 
laws on the subject. The relevant legislation must be found 
either in the Law of Asoka or the Law of Manu. 

To begin with Asoka. The edicts of Asoka which have 
reference to this matter are Rock Edict No. I and Pillar Edicts 
Nos.Ii end V. Rock Edict No.I read as follows:- 

: “This pious Edict has been written by command 
of His Sacred and Gracious Majesty the King. 
Here (in the capital) no animal may be slaughtered 
for sacrifice, nor may the holiday feast be held, 
because His Sacred and Gracious Majesty the 
king sees much offence in the holiday feasts, 
although in certain places holiday feasts are 
excellent in the sight of His Sacred and Gracious 
Majesty the king. 

“Formerly, in the kitchen of His Sacred and 
Gracious Majesty. the King eachday many 
hundred thousands of living creatures were slau- 
ghtered to make curries, But now, when this 
pious edict is being written, only three living 
creatures are slaughtered (daily) for curry, to wit, 
two peacocks and one antelope: the antelope, 
however, not invariably. Even those three living 
creatures henceforth shall not be slaughtered.” 

Pillar Edict No.II was in the following terms:- 

“Thus saith His Sacred and Gracious Majesty the King:- 

“The Law of piety is excellent. But wherein consists 
the Law of Piety? In these things, to wit, little impiety, 
many good deeds, compassion, liberality, truthfulness and 
purity. 

The gift of spiritual insight I have given in manifold 
ways: whilst on two-footed and four-footed’ beings, on birds 
-and the denizens of the waters. I have conferred various 
favours-even unto the boon of life; and many other good deed 
have I done. : 

98 The Untouchables 

For this my purpose, have I caused this pj 
| IS plous edj 
be written, that men may walk after its teaching. and ae 

ni _ endure; and he who will follow its teaching will do 

Pillar Edict V says :- 

“Thus said His Sacred and Gracious Majesty, the king: 
When I had been consecrated twenty-six years the 

following species were declared exempt Jrom slaughicr, 
namely. 

Parrots, starkings(?) adjutants, Brahmany ducks, geese 
pandimukhas, gelatas, bats, queen-ants, female tortosises, bone- 
less fish, vedaveyakas, gangaptuputakas, skate, (river) tortoise. 
porcupines tree-squirrels, barasingha stage, Brahmany bulls. 
monkeys, rhinocerous, grey doves village piegeons, and all four 
footed animals which are not utillised or eaten. : 

She-goats, ewes, sows, that is to say, those either with 
young or in milk, are exempt from slaughter as well as their 
off-spring up to six months of age. 

The caponing of cocks must not be done. 

__ Chaff must not be burned along with the living things 
in it. 

Forests must not be burned either for mischief or so as 
to destroy living creatures. 

The living must not be fed with the living. At each of 
the three seasonal full moons, and at the full moon of the 
month Tishya (December-January) for three days in each 
case, namely, the fourteenth and fifteenth days of the first 
fortnight, and the first day of the second fortnight, as well as 
on the first days throughout, the year, fish is exempt from 
killing and may not be sold- 

“On the same days, in elephant-preserves or fish-ponds 
no other classes of animals may be destroyed. 

On the eighth, fourteenth and fifteenth days of each 
fortnight, as well as on the Tishya and Punarvasa days and 
festival davs, the castration of bulls must not be performed, 
nor may he-goats, rams, boars and other animals liable to 
castration be castrated. 

On the Tishya and Punarvasa days, on the seasonal full- 
moon days, and during the fortnights of the seasonal full moons 

Why Did Non-Brahmins give up Beef-eating ? 97 

the branding of horses and oxen must not be done. 

During the time up to the twenty-sixth anniversary oi 

my consecration twenty-five jail deliveries have been effected.” 
So much for the legislation of Asoka.” 

Ii 

Let us turn to Manu. His Laws contain the fo:lowing 

provisions regarding meat-eating:- 

“V 11. Let him avoid all carnivorous birds and those living in 

NV W2: 

V 13. 

V.16. 

V.18. 

villages, and one-hoofed animals which are not 
specially permitted (to be eaten), and the Tithbha 
(Parra) Jacana. 

The sparrow, the Plava, the Hamsa, the Brahmani duck 
the village-cock, the Sarasa crane, the Reggudalz, 
the wood-pecker, the parrot, and the starling. 

Those which feed striking with their beaks, web-footed 
birds, the Koyashti, those which scratch with _ their 
toes, those which dive and live on fish, meat from a 
slaughter-house and dried meat. : 

The Baka and the Balaka crane, the raven, the Khangar- 
taka(animals) that eat fish, village-pigs, and all kind of 
fishes. 

He who eats the flesh of any (animals) is called the 
eater of the flesh of that (particular) creature, he 
who eats flesh is an eater of every (kind of) flesh; let 
him therefore avoid fish. 

(But the fish called) Pathine and (that called) 
Rohita may be eaten, if used for offering to the gods or 
to the manes (one may eat) likewise Ragivas, Simhat- 
undas, and Sasalkas on all occasions. 

Let him not eat solitary or unknown beasts and bird,s 
though they my fall under (the categories of) eatable 
creatures, not any five-footed animal. 

The porcupine,the hedgehog, the iguana, the rhino- 
ceros, the tortoise, and the hare they declare to be 
eatable; likewise those domestic animals that have 
teeth in one jaw excepting camels,” 

98 The Untouchables 

IV 

Here is survey of the legislation both by Asoka and by 
Manu on the slaughter of animals, We are of course prin- 
cipally concerned with the cow. Examining the legislation 
of Asoka the question is: Did he prohibit — the 
killing of the cow? On this issue there seem to be a difference 
of opinion. Prof. Vincent Smith is of opinion that Asoka 
did not prohibit the killing of the cow. Commenting on the 
legislation of Asoka on the subject Prof. Smith says: 

“It is noteworthy that Asoka’s rules do not 
forbid the slaughter of cow, which, apparently. 
continued to be lawful.” 

Prof. Radhakmud Mookerji joins issue with Prof. Smith 
and says? that Asoka did prohibit the slaughter of the cow. Prof 
Mookerji relies upon the reference in Pillar Edict V to the 
rule of exemption which was made applicable to all four-foot- 
ed animals and argues that under this rule cow was exempced 
from killing. This is not a correct readring of the statement 
in the Edict. The Statement in the Edict is a qualified 
statement. Itdoes not refer to all four-footed animals but 
only to four-footed animals, ‘which are not utilized or eaten.” 
A cow cannot be said tt be a_ four-footed animal 
which was not utilized or eaten. Pref. Vincent 
Smith seems to be correct in saying that Asoka 
did not prohibit the slaughter of the cow. Prof. Mookerji 
tries to get out of the difficulty by saying that at the time of 
Asoka the cow was not eaten and therefore came within the 
prohibition. His statement is simply absurd for the cow 
was an animal which was very much eaten by all class. 

It 1s quite unnecessary to resort as does Prof. Mookerji 
to a forced construction of the Edict and to make Asoka 
prohibit the slaughter of the cow as though it was his duty 
to do so. Asoka had no particular interest in the cow and 
owed no special duty to protect her against killing. Asoka was 
interested in the sanctity of all life human as well as animal. 
He felt his duty to prohibit the taking of life where taking 
of life was not necessary. That is why he prohibited slaugh- 
ter of animal for sacrifice} which he regarded as unnecessary 

1, Asoka p. 58 2. Asoka pp. 21,181,184, 8. See Rock Edict No, I, 

Why Did Non-Brahmins give up Beef-eating ? 99 

and of animals which are not utilized nor eaten which again 
would be wanton and unnecessary. That he did not prohibit 
the slaughter of the cow in specie may well be taken as a fact 
which for having regard to the Buddhist attitude in the matter 
cannot be used against Asoka as a ground for casting 
blame. 

Coming to Manu there is no doubt that he too did not 
prohibit the slaughter of the cow. On the other hand he 
made the eating of cow’s flesh on certain occasions obligatory. 

Why then did the non-Brahmins give up eating beef ? 
There appears to be no apparent reason for this departure 
on their part. But there must be some reason behind it. 
The reason I like to suggest is that it was due to their desire 
to imitate the Brahmins that the non-Brahmins gave up 
beef-eating. This may be a novel theory but it is not an 
impossible theory. As the French author, Gabriel Tarde has 
explained culture within a society spreads by imitations of 
the ways and manners of the superior classes by the inferior 
classes, This imitation is so regular in its flow that its 
working is as mechanical as the working of a natural law. 
Gabriel Tarde speaks ot the laws of imitations. One of these 
laws is that the lower classes always imitate the higher 
classes. This isa matter of such common knowledge that 
hardly any individual can be found to question its validity. 

That the spread of the cow-worship among and cessa- 
tion of beaf-eating by the non-Brahmins has taken place by 
reason of the habit of the non-Brahmins to imitate the 
Brahmins who were undoubtedly their superiors is beyond 
dispute. Of course there was an extensive propaganda in 
favour of cow-worship by the Brahmins. The Gayatri 
Purana isa piece of this propaganda. But initially it is the 
result of the natural law of imitation. This, of course, 
raises another question: Why did the Brahmins give up 
beef-eating ? 

CHAPTER XIil 
What Made the Brahmins Become Vegetarians ? 

The non-Brahmins have evidently undergone a revo- 
lution. From beings beef-eaters to have become non-beef- 
eaters was indeed a revolution. But if the non-Brahmins 
underwent one revolution, the Brahmins had undergone two. 
They gave up beef-eating which was one revolution. To 

have given up meat-eating altogether and become vegetarians 
was another revolution. 

That this was a revolution is beyond question. For 

es has been shown in the previous chapters there was a 
time when the Brahmins were the greatest beef-eaters. 
Although the non-Brahmins did eat beef they could not 
have had it every day. The cow wasacostly animal and 
the non-Brahmins could ill afford to slaughter it just for 
food. He only did it on special occasion when his religious 
duty or personal interest to propitiate a deity compelled 
him to do. But the case with the Brahmin was different. 
He wasa priest. Ina period overridden by ritualism there 
was hardly a day on which there was no cow sacrifice to 
which the Branmin was not invited by some non-Brahmin. 
For the Brahmin every day was a beef-steak day. The Brah- 
mins were therefore the greatest beef-eaters. The Yajna of 
the Brahmins was nothing but the killing of innocent ani- 
mals carried on in the name of religion with pomp and 
ceremony with an attempt to enshroud it in mystely with 
a view to conceal their appetite for beef. Some idea of this 
mystery pomp and ceremony can be had from the directions 

contained in the Atreya Brahamana touching the killing of 
animals ina Yajna. 

The actual killing of the animal is preceded by certain 
Initiatory Rites accompanied by incantations too long and 
too many to be detailed here. I[t isenough to give an idea 
of the main features of the Sacrifice. The Sacrifice com- 
mences with the erection of the Sacrificial post called the 
Yupa to which the animal is tied before it is slaughtered. 

What Made the Brahmins Become Vegetarians ? 101 

After setting out why the Yupa is necessary the Atreya 
Brahamana proceeds to state what-it stands for. It says2 

“This Yupa is a weapon. Its point must have 
eight edges. For a weapon (or iron club) has 
eight edges. Whenever he strikes with it an 
enemy or adversary, he kills him. (This weapon 
serves) to put down him (every one) who is to 
be put down by him (the sacrificer), The 
Yupa is a weapon which stands erected (being 
ready) to slay an enemy. Thence an enemy 
(of the sacrificer) who might be present (at 
the sacrifice) comes of all ill after having seen 
the Yupa of such or such one.” 

The selection of the wood to be used for the Yupa 
is made to vary with the purposes which the sacrificer 
wishes to achieve by the sacrifice. The Atreya Brahamana 
Says: 

“He who desires heaven, ought to make his Yupa of 
Khadira wood. For the gods conquered the celestial world 
by means of a Yupa, made of Khadira wood. In the same 
way the sacrificer conquers the celestial world by means of 
a Yupa, made of Khadira wood. 

“He who desires food and wishes to grow fat ought to 
make his Yupa of Bilva wood. For the Bilva tree bears 
fruits every year; it is the symbol of fertility; for it increases 
(every year) in size from the roots up to the branches, 
therefore it is a symbol of fatness. He who having such a 
knowledge makes his Yupa of Bilva wood, makes fat his 
children and cattle. 

“As regards the Yupa made of Bilva wood Cit is further 
to be remarked), that they call ‘light’ Bilva. He who has 
such a knowledge becomes a ‘light’ among his own people, 
the most distinguished among his own people. 

“He who desires beauty and sacred knowledge ought 
to make his Yupa of Palasa wood. For the Palasa is among 
the trees of beauty and sacred knowledge. He who having 
such a knowledge makes his Yupa of Palasa wood, becomes 
beautiful and acquires sacred knowledge. 

a a a cs ek 

1. Atreya Brahamana II pp. 72-74. 

102 

The Untouchables 

“As regards the Yupa made of Palasa wood (there 1s 
further to be remarked), that the Palasa is the womb of all 
trees. Thence they speak on account of the palasam (foliage) 
of this or that tree (ie. they call the foliage of every tree 
palasam). He who has such a knowledge obtains (the gratifi- 
cation of) any desire, he might have regarding all trees (i.e. he 

obtains from all trees any thing he might wish for).” 

This is followed by the ceremony of anointing the sacri- 

ficial post?. 

“The Adhvaryu says (to the Hotar): “We anoint 
the sacrificial post (Yupa); repeat the mantra 
(required)”. The Hotar then repeats the verse: 
“Amjanti tvam adhvare” (3,8,1),1e. “The priests 
anoint thee, O tree! with celestial honey (butter); 
provide (us) with wealth if thou standest here 
erected, or if thou art lying on thy mother 
(earth).” The “celestial honey” is the melted 
butter (with which the priests anoint the Yupa), 
(The second half verse from) “ provide us ” &c. 
means: “thou mayest stand or lie, provide us with 
wealth.” 

“(The Hotar then repeats:) “jato jayate sudinatve” 
&c, (3,8,5-) ie. “After having been born, he (the 
Yupa) is growing (to serve) in the prime of his 
life the sacrifice of mortal men. The wise are 
busy in decorating (him, the Yupa) with skill. He, 
as an eloquent messenger of the gods, lifts his 
voice (that it might be heard by the gods).” He 
(the Yupa) is called jata, i.e, born, because he is 
born by this (by the recital of the first quarter 
of this verse). (By the word) vardhamana, ie 
growing, they make him(the Yupa) grow in this 
manner. (By the words:) punanti (i.e. to clean, 
decorate), they clean him in this manner. (By 
the words:) “he as an eloquent messenger, &c.” 
he announces the Yupa (the fact of his existence) 
to the gods. 

1. Atreya Brahmana (Martin Haug) II pp. 74-78 

What Made the Brahmins Become Vegetarians ? 108 

T he Hotar then concludes (the ceremony of anointing 
the sacrificial post) with the verse “yuva suvasah parivitah” 
(3,8,4.), ie. “the youth decorated with ribands, has arrived: he 
is finer (than all trees) which ever grew; the wise priests raise 
him up under recital of well-frsmed thoughts of their mind.” 
The youth decorated with ribands, is the vital air (the soul), 
which is covered by the limbs of the body. (By the words:) 
“he is finer,” &c. he means that he (the Yupa) is becoming 
finer (more excellent, beautiful ) by this (mantra).” 

The next ceremony is the carrying of fire round the sacri- 
ficial animal. The Atreya Brahmana gives the following 
directions on this point. It says? :-- 

“When the fire is carried round (the animal) the Adhvar- 
yusays to the Hotar: repeat (thy mantras). The Hotar.then 
repeats this triplet of verses, addressed to Agni, and 
composed in the Gayatri metre: Agniy Hota no adhvare 
(4.15.1-8) i.e (1) Agni, our priest, is carried round about 
like a horse, ke who is among gods the god of sacrifices, 
(2) Like a charioteer Agni passes thrice by the sacrifice: 
to the gods he carries the offerfig. (8) The master of 
food, the seer of Agni, went round the offering; he bestows 
riches on the sacrificer. ' 

“When the fire is carried round (the animal) then he 
makes him (Agni) prosper by means of his own deity and 
his own metre. ‘As a horse heis carried’ means: they 
carry him as if he were a horse, round about. Like a 
charioteer Agni passes thrice by the sacrifice means: he 
goes round the sacrifice like a eharioteer (swiftly). He 
is called vajapati (master of food) because he is the 
master of (different kinds of) food. 

“The Advaryu says : give Hotar ! the additional order 
for despatching offerings to the gods. 

“The Hotar then says (to the slaughterers) : Ye divine 
slaughterers, commence (your work), as well as ye who 
are human ! that is to say, he orders all the slaughterers 
among gods as well as among men (to commence). 

Bring hither the instruments for killing, ye who are 
ordering the sacrifice, in behalf of the two masters of the 
sacrifice. 

1, Atreya Brahmana (Martin Haug) II - pp. 84-86, 

104 The Untouchables 

“The animal is the offering, the sacrificer the master of the 
offering. Thus he (the Hotar) makes prosper the 
sacrificer by means of his (the sacrificer’s) own offering. 
Thence they truly say : for whatever deity the animal 
is killed, that one is the master of the offering. If the 
animal is to be offered to one deity only, the priest should 
say : Medhapataye ‘to the master of the sacrifice (singular); 
if to two deities, then he should use the dual ‘to both 
masters of the offering’, and if to several deities, then he 
should use the plural, “to the masters of the offering’, This 
ia the established custom. 

Bring ye for him ftrel For the animal when carried 
(to the slaughter) saw death before it. Not wishing to go 
to the gods, the gods said to it : Come, we will bring thee 
to heaven ! The animal consented and said: One of you 
should walk before me. They consented. Agni then 
walked before it, and it followed after Agni. Thence 
they say, every animal belongs to Agni, for it followed 
after him. Thence they carry before the animal fire . 

(Agni). 

Spread the (sacred) grass! The animal lives on herbs, He 
(the Hotar ) thus provides the animal with its entire soul 
(the herbs being supposed to form part of it). 

After the ceremony of carrying fire round the animal 
comes the delivery of the animal to the priests for sacrifice. 
Who should offer the animal for sacrifice? On this point the 
direction of the Atreya Brahmana is'- 

“The mother, the father, the brother, sister, friend, 
and companions should give this (animal) up (ror 
bemg slaughtered)! When these words are 
pronounced, they seize the animal which is 
(regarded as) entirely given up by its relations 
(parents, &c.)’’. 

On reading this direction one wonders why almost every- 
body is required to join in offering the animal for _ sacrifice 
The reason is simple. There were altogether seventeen Brah- 
min priests who were entitled to take part in performing the 

} Atreya Brahmana (Martin Haug) II p. 86, 

What Made the Brahmins Become Vegetarians ? 108 

sacrifice, Naturally enough they wanted the whole carcass 
to themselves. Indeed they could not give enough to each 
of the seventeen priests unless they had the whole carcass to 
distribute. Legally the Brahmins could not claim the whole 
carcass unless everybody who could not claim any right over 
the animal had been divested of it. Hence the direction 
requiring even the companion of the sacrificer to take part im 
offering the animal. 

_ Then comes the ceremony of actually killing the 
animal. The Atreya Brahamana gives the details of the 
mcde and manner of killing the animal. Its directions are’—- 

“Turn its feet northwards! Make its eye go to the 
sun, dismiss its breath to the wind, its life to the 
air, its hearing to the “directions, its body to the 
earth. In this way he (the Hotar) places it 
(connects it) with these worlds. 

Take off the skin entire (without cutting it). Be- 
fore opening the naval, tear out omentum. Stop tts 
breathing within (by stopping its mouth). Thus 
he (the Hotar) puts its breath in the animals. 

Make of its breast a prece like aneagle, of tts arms 

ewe pieces like) two shatchets, ofits forearnis 

two pieces like) two spikes, ofits shouldérs (two 

pieces like) two Kashyapas, its loins should be 

un-broken (entire) ; (make of) ws thighs (two pieces 

like) two shields, of the two knecpans (two pieces 

like) two oleander leaves ; take cut ws twentysix 

ribs according to their order; preserve every limb 

of it in its integrity. Thus he benefits all its limbs,” 
There remain two ceremonies to complete 
the sacrificial killing of the animal. One isto absolve the 
Brahmin priests who played the butcher’s part. Theoreti- 
cally they are guilty of murder for the animal is only a 
substitute for the sacrificer. To absolve them from the 
consequences of murder, the Hotar is directed by the Atreya 
Brahamana to observe the following injunction’ : 

er ne ee 8 ee 
re ~- 7 - - 

rene ee, 

oe 

1.. As a matter of fact the Brahmins took the whole carcass, Only one leg 
each was given tv the sacrificer and his wife. 

2, Atreya Brahmana (Martin Haug) II pp. 86-87, 

8. Ibid pp. 88-90 

106 The Untouchables 

“Do not cut the entrails which resemble an owl 
(when taking out the omentum), nor should 
among your children, O slaughterers ! or among 
they offspring any one be found who might cut 
them. By speaking these words, he presents these 
entrails to the slaughterers among the gods as well 
as to those among men. 

The Hotar shall then say thrice: O Adhrigu 
(and ye others), kill (the animal), do it well ; kill 
it, O Adhrigu. 

After the animal has been killed, (he should say 
thrice:) Far may it (the consequences of 
murder) be (from us). For Adhrigu among the 
gcds is he who silences (the animal) and the Apapa 
(away, away!) is he who puts it down. By 
speaking those words he surrenders the animal 
to those who silence it (by stopping its mouth) : 
and to those who butcher it. 

The Hotar then mutters (he makes Japa); “O 

.slaughterers! may all good you might do abide by 
us ! and all mischief you might do go elsewhere !” 
The Hotar gives by (this) speech the order (for 
killing the animal), for Agni had given the order 
for killing (the animal) with the same words 
when he was the Hotar of the gods. 

By those words (the Japa mentioned) the Hotar 
removes (all evil consequences) from those who 
suffocate the animal and those who butcher it, 
in all that they might transgress the rule by 
cutting one piece too soon, the other too late, or 
by cutting a too large, or atoosmall piece. The 
Hotar enjoying this happiness clears himself 

(from all guilt) and attains the full length of his 
life (and it serves the sacrificer) for obtaining 
his full life. He who has such a knowledge, 
attains the full length of his life.” 

The Atreya Bramhana next deals with the question 
of disposing of the parts of the dead animal. In this connec: 
tion its direction is!— | 

1. Atreya Brahmana (Martin Haug) II p. 87 

What Made the Brahmins Become Vegetarians ? 107 

“Dig a ditch in the earth to hide its excrements. 
The excrements consist of vegetable food; for 
the earth is the place for the herbs. Thus the 
Hotar puts them (the excrements) tinally in 
their proper places. Present the evil spirits 
with the blood! For the gods having deprived 
(once) the evil spirits of their share in the 
Haviryajnas (such as the Full and New Moon 
offerings) apportioned to them the husks and 
smallest grains, and after having them 
turned out of the great sacrifice (such as the 
Soma and animal sacrifices), presented to them 
the blood. Thencethe Hotar pronounces the 
words: present the evil spirits with the blood! 
By giving them this share he deprives the evil 
spirits of any other share in the sacrifice. They 
say: one should not address the evil spirits in 
the sacrifice, and evil spirits whichever they 
might be (Rakshasas, Asuras etc.); for the 
sacrifice is to be without (the) evil spirits (not to 
be disturbed by them). But others say: one 
should address them; for (he) who deprives anyone, 
“entitled to a share, of this share, will be punish- 
ed (by him whom he deprives); and if he him- 
self does not suffer the penalty, then his son, and 
if his son be spared, then his grandson will suffer 
it, and thus he resents on him (the son or grand- 
son) what he wanted to resent on you.” 

“However, if the Hotar addresses them, he should 
do so with a low voice. For both, the low voice 
and the evil spirits, are, as it were, hidden. 
If he addresses them with a loud voice, then such 
one speaks in the voice of the evil spirits, and is 
capable of producing Rakshasa sounds (a horrible, 
terrific voice). The voice in which the haughty 
man and the drunkard speak is that of the evil 
spirits (Rakshasas). He who has such a know- 
ledge will neither himself become haughty nor 
will such a man be among his offspring.” 

Then follows the last and the concluding ceremony -- 
that of offering parts of the body of the animal tothe gods, 

108 The Untouchables 
It iscalled the Manota. According to the Atreya Braha- 

mana'— 

“The Adhvaryu says (to the Hotar): recite the 
verses appropriate to the offering of the parts of 
the sacrificial animal which are cut off for the 
Manota. He then repeats the hymn: Thou, O 
Agni, art the first Manota? (6.1)” 

There remains the question of sharing the flesh of the 
animal. On this issue the division was settled by the Atreya 
Brahamana in the following terms? : 

“Now follows the division of the different parts 
of the sacrificial animal (among the priests). We 
shall describe it. The two jawbones with the 
tongue are to be given to the Prastotar; the breast 
in the form of an eagle to the Udgatar; the throat 
with the palate to the Pratihartar; the lower part 
of the right loins tothe Hotar ; the left to the 
Brahma; the right thigh to the Maitravaruna ; 
the left to the Brahmanachhanmsi ; the right side 
with the shoulder to the Adhvaryu ; the left side 
to those who accompany the chants; the left 
shoulder to the Pratipashatar; the lower part of 
the right arm to the Neshtar; the lower part 
of the left arm to the Potar; the upper of 
of the right thigh to the Achhavaka; the 
left to the Agnidhara; the upper part of 
the right arm to the Atreya; the left to the 
Sadasya; the back bone and the urinal bladder 
tothe Grihapati (sacrificer); the right feet to 
the Grihapati who gives a feasting; theleft feet 
to the wife of that Grihapati who gives a feasting; 
the upper lip is common to both (the Grihapati 
and his wife), whichis to be divided by the 
Grihapati. They offer the tail of the animal to 
wives, but they should give it to a Brahmana; 
the fleshy processes (manitkah) on the neck and 
three gristles (Atkasah) to the ‘Gravastut; three 

—_— ea er a eh a ree ae ein in a ee ie 

1, “Atreya Braiinane (Martin Haug) IL p. 93. 
2. - Manota means the deity to whom the offering i+ dedicated. 
3, Atreya Brahmana (Martin Haug) II pp. 441-42. 

pene eee wee once en te ae a a a 

What Made the Brahmins Become Vegetarians ? 109 

other gristles and one-half of the fleshy part on 
the back (vaikartta) to the Unnetar; the other 
half of the fleshy part on the neck and the left 
lobe (kloma) to the slaughterer, who should 
present it toa Brahmana, if he himself would not 
happen to be a Brahmana. The head isto be 
given to the Subrahmanya, the skin belongs to 
him (the Subrahmanya), who spoke, svah sutyam 
(tomorrow at the Soma sacrifice); that part of 
the sacrificial animal at a Soma sacrifice which 
belongs to Ila (sacrificial food) is common to all 
the priests; only for the Hotar it is optional. 

All these portions ofthe sacrificial animal amount 
to thirtysix single pieces, each of which represents 
the pada (foot) of a verse by which the sacrifice 
is carried up. The Brihati metre consists of thirty- 
six syllables; and the heavenly worlds are of the 
Brihati nature. In this way (by dividing the 
animal into thirtysix parts) they gain life (in this 
world) and the heavens, and having become 
established in both (this and that world) they 
walk there. 

To those who divide the sacrificial animal in the 
way mentioned, it becomes the guide to heaven. 
But those who make the division otherwise are 
like scoundrels and miscreants who kill an 
animal merely (for gratifying their lust after flesh). 
This division of the sacrificial animal was inven- 
ted by the Rishi (Devabhaga, a son of Sruta). 
When he was departing from this life, he did not 
entrust (the secret to anyone). But a superna- 
tural being communicated it to Girtja, the son of 
Babhru. Since his time men study it.” 

What is said by the Atreya Brahmana places two things 
beyond dispute. One is that the Brahmins monopolised the 
whole of the flesh of the sacrificial animal. Except for a paltry 
bit they did not even allow the sacrificer to share in it. The 
second is that the Brahmins themselves played the part of 
butchers in the slaughter of the animal. Asa matter of 
principle the Brahmins should not eat the flesh of the 

110 The Untouchables 

animal killed at a sacrifice. The principle underlying Yajna 
is that man should offer himself as sacrifice to the gods. He 
offers an animal only to release himself from this obligation. 
From this it followed that the animal, being only a substitute 
for the man, eating the flesh of animal meant eating human 
flesh. This theory was very detrimental to the interest of the 
Brahmins who had a complete monopoly of the flesh of the 
animal offered for sacrifice. The Atreya Brahamana which 
had seen in this theory the danger of the Brahmins being 
deprived of the flesh of sacrificial animal takes pains to 
explain away the theo-y by a simple negation. It says! : 

“The man who is initiated (into the sacrificial 
mysteries) offers himself to all deities. Agni re- 
presents all deities and Soma represents all 
deities. When he (the sacrificer) offers the 
animal to Agni-Soma he releases himself (by. 
being represented by the animal) from being 
offered to all deities. 

They say: “do not eat from the animal offered 
to Agni-Soma. Who eats from this animal, 
eats from human flesh; because the sacrificer 
releases himself (from being sacrificed) by means 
of the animal”. But this (precept) is not to be 

attended to. 

Given these facts, no further evidence seems to be 
necessary to support thé statement that the Brahmins 
were not merely beef-eaters but they were also butchers. 

Why then did the Brahmins change front? Let us 
deal with their change of front in two stages. First, why did 
they give up beef-eating ? 

II 

As has already been shown cow-killing was not legally 
prohibited by Asoka. Even if it had been prohibitéd, a law 
made by the Buddhist Emperor could never have been 
accepted by the Brahmins as binding upon them. 

Did Manu prohibit beef-eating ? If he did, then that 

GEREN Sto eed LE 

1, Atreya Brahmana (Martin Haug) IT p. 30. 

What Made the Brahmins Become Vegetarians ? 111 

would be binding on the Brahmins and would afford an 
adequate explanation of their change of front. Looking into 
the Manu Smriti one does find the following verses : 

“V,46. He who does not seek to cause the sufferings 
of bonds and death to living creatures, (but) 
desires the good of all (beings), obtains end- 
less bliss. 

“V. 47. He who does not injure any (creature) attains 
without an effort what he thinks of, what he 
ur. lertakes, and what he fixes his mind on. 

“V. 48. Meat can never be obtained without injury to 
living creatures, and injury to sentient being is 
detrimental to (the attainment of) heavenly 
bliss; let him therefore shun (the use of) meat. 

"V. 49. Having well considered the (disgusting) origin 
of flesh and the (cruelty of) fettering and slay- 
ing corporeal’ beings, let him entirely abstain 
from eating flesh.” 

If these verses can be treated as containing positive in- 
junctions they would be sufficient to explain why the 
Brahmins gave up meat-eating and became vegetarians. But 
it is impossible to treat these verses as positive injunctions, 
carrying the force of law. They are either exhortations or 
interpolations introduced after the Brahmins had become 
vegetarians in praise of the change. That the latter is the 
correct view is proved by the following verses which occur in 
the same chapter of the Manu Snrriti. 

“V. 28: The Lord of creatures (Prajapati) created this 
whole world to be the sustenance of the vital 
spirit; both the immovable and the movable 
creation is the food of the vital spirit. 

"'V. 29. What is destitute of motion is the food of those 
endowed with locomotion; (animals) without 
fangs (ave the food) of those with fangs, those 
without hands of those who _ possess hands, and 
the timid of the bold, 

112 The Untouchables 

“\7. 30. The eater who daily even devours those des- 
tined to be his food, commits no sin; for the 
creator himself created both the eaters and 
those who are to be eaten (for those special 
purposes). _ 

“V, 56. There is nosin in eating meat, in drinking 
spirituous liquor, and in carnal intercourse for 
that isthe natural way of created beings, but 
abstention brings great rewards. 

“V.27. One may eat meat when it has been sprinkled 
with water, while mantras were recited, when 
Brahmans desire (one’s doing it) when one is 
engaged (in the performance ofa rite) accord- 
ing to the law, and when one’s life is in danger. 

V. 31. The consumption of meat (is befitting) for 
sacrifices, ‘that is declared to be a rule made by ° 
the gods; but to persist (in using it) on other 
(occasions) is said to be a proceeding worthy 
of Rakshasas. 

“V.32. He who eats meat, when he honours the gods 
and manes, commits no sin, whether he has 
bought it, or himself has killed the animal or has 
received it as a present for others. 

“V. 42. A twice-born man who, knowing the true 
meaning of the Veda, slays an animal for these 
purposes, causes both himself and the animal to 
enter a most blessed state. 

“V. 39. Swayambhu (the self-existent) himself created 
animalsfor the sake of sacrifices; sacrifices 
(have been instituted) for the good of this 
whole (world) hence the slaughtering (of beasts) 
for sacrifice is not slaughtering (in the ordi- 
nary) sense of the word. | 

“W740. Herbs, trees, cattle, birds, and other animals 
that have been destrcyed for sacrifices, receive 
(being reborn) higher existence.’ 

M anu goes further and makes eating of flesh compul- 
sory, No t2 the following verse :— 

What Made the Brahmins Become Vegetarians ? 113 

“V.35, But a man who, being duly engaged (to 
officiate or to dine at a sacred rite), refuses to 

eat meat becomes after death an animal during 
twentyone existences.” 

That Manu did not prohibit meat-eating is evident 
enough, That Manu Smriti did not prohibit cow-kiliing 
can also be proved from the Smriti itself. In the first place, 
the only references to cowin the Manu Smriti are to be 
found in the catalogue of rules which are made applicable 
by Manu tothe Snataka. They are set out below :— . 

1. A Snataka should not eat food whicha cow has 
smelt.' 

2. A Snataka should not step over arope to which 
a calf is tied.? 

3. A Snataka should not urinate in a cowpan, 

4. A Snataka should not answer call of nature facing 
a cow.’ 

5. A Snataka should keep his right arm uncovered 
when he enters a cowpan.5 

6. A Snataka should not interrupt a cow which is 
sucking her calf, nor tell anybody of it.® 

7. A Snataka should not ride on the back of the cow.’ 
8. A Snataka should not offend the cow.? 

9, A Snataka who is impure must not touch a cow 
with his hand.® 

From these references it will be seen that Manu did 
not regard the cow asa sacredanimal, On the other hand, 

he regarded it as an impure animal whose touch caused 
ceremonial pollution. 

There are verses in Manu which show that he did not 
prohibit the eating of beef. In this connection, reference 
may be made to Chapter III, 3, It says :-— 

an at a A St A as eh Se 
ne eat 

ooo or re ee ne eres 

1. IV.209 5. IV.58 9. IV.142 
2. IV.38 6. IV.59 

3. IV.45 7. IV.70 

4. IV.48 8. IV 162 

114 The Untouchables 

“He (Snataka) who is famous (for the strict 
performance of) his duties and has received his 
heritage, the Veda from his father, shall be - 
honoured, sitting on couch and adorned witha 
garland with the present of acow (the honey- 
mixture),” 

The question is why should Manu recommend the gift 
of a cow to a Snataka? Obviously, to enable him to perform 
Madhuparka. If that is so, it follows that Manu knew that 
Brahmins did eat beef and he had no objection to it, 

Another reference would be to Manu’s discussion of 
the animals whose meat is eatable and those whose meat 
is not. In Chapter V. 18, he says :— 

The porcupine, the hedgehog, the iguana, the 
rhinoceros, the tortoise, and the hare they de- 
clare to be eatable, likewise those (domestic ani- 
mals) that have teeth in one jaw only, excepting 
camels.” 

In this verse Manu gives general permission to eat the 
flesh of all domestic animals that have teeth in one jaw only. 
To this rule Manu makes one exception, namely, the camel. 
In this class of domestic animals - those that have teeth in 
one jaw only - falls not only the camel but also the cow. 
It is noteworthy that Manu does not make an exception in 
the case of the cow, This means that Manu had no objection 
to the eating of the cow's flesh. 

Manu did not make the killing of the cow an offence. 
Manu divides sins into two classes (i) mortal sins and (ii) 
minor sins, Among the mortal sins Manu includes: 

“X1.55, Killing a Brahmana, drinking (the — spirituos 
liquor called Sura) stealing the (gold of the 
Brahmana) adultery with a Guru's wife, and 
associating with such offenders.” , 
Among minor sins Manu includes: 

“XI, 60. Killing the cow, sacrificing for those unworthy 
to sacrifice, adultery, setting oneself, casting 
off one’s teacher, mother, father or son, giving 
up the (daily) study of the Veda and neglect- 
ing the (sacred domestic) fire,” 

What Made the Brahmins Become Vegetarians ? 115 

From this it will be clear that according to Manu cow- 
killing was only a minor sin. It was reprehensible only if the 
cow was killed without good and sufficient reason. Even 
if it was ‘otherwise, it was not heinous or inexplicable. The 
same was the attitude of Yajnavalkya'. 

All this proves that for generations the Brahmins had 
been eating beef. Why did they give up beef-eating? 
Why did they, as an extreme step, give up. meat-eating 
altogether and become vegetarians? It is two revolutions 
rolled into one, As has been shown it has not been done as a 
result of the preachings of Manu, their Divine Law-maker. 
The revolution has taken place in spite of Manu and contrary 
to his directions. What made the Brahmins take this 
step ? Was philosophy responsible for it? Or was it 
dictated by strategy ? 

Two explanations are offered. One explanation is 
that this deification of the cow was a manifestation of the 
Advaita philosophy that one supreme entity pervaded the 
whole universe, that on that account all life human as well 
as animal was sacred. This explanation is obviously un- 
satisfactory. In the first place, it does not fit in with facts. 
The Vedanta Sutra which proclaims the doctrine of oneness 
of life does not prohibit the killing of animals for sacrificial 
purposes as is evident from IJ.1.28. Inthe second place, 
if the transformation was due to the desire to realize the 
ideal of Advaita then there is no reason why it should have 

stopped with the cow. It should have extended to all other 
animals. 

Another explanation’ more ingenious than the first, 
is that this transformation in the life of the Brahmin 
was due to the rise of the doctrine of the Transmigration 
of the Soul. Even this explanation does not fit in 
with facts. The Brahadranyaka Upanishad upholds 
the doctrine of transmigration (vi, 2) and yet recommends 
that if a man desires to have a learned son born to 
him he should prepare a mass of the flesh of the bull 
or ox or of other flesh with rice and ghee. Again, 
how is it that this doctrine which is propounded in 
the Upanishads did not have any effect on the Brahmins 

1. Yaj. II. 227 and ILL 234, a 
2. Kane's Dharma Shastra II. Part II. P 776. 

116 The Untouchables 

up to the time of the Manu Smriti, a period of at least 400 
years. Obviously, this explanation is no explanation. 
Thirdly,if Brahmins became vegetarians by reason of the 
doctrine of transmigration of the soul how is it, it did not 
make the non-Brahmins take to vegetarianism ? 

To my mind, it was strategy which made the Brahmins 
give up beef-eating and start worshipping the cow. The clue 
to the worship of the cow is to be found in the struggle 
between Buddhism and Brahmanism and the means adopted 
by Brahmanism to establish its supremacy cver Buddhism. 
The strife between Buddhism and Brahmanism isa _ crucial 
fact in Indian history. Without the realisation of this fact, 
it is impossible tu explain some of the features of Hinduism. 
Unfortunately students of Indian history have entirely missed 
the importance of this strife. They knew there was Brahman- 
ism. But they seem to be entirely unaware of the struggle 
for supremacy in which these creeds were engaged and that 
their struggle which extended for 400 years has left some 
indelible marks on religion, society and politics of India. 

This is not the place for describing the full story of the 
struggle. All one can do is to mention afew salient points, 
Buddhism was at one time the religion of the majority of the 
people of India. It continued to be the religion of the masses 
for hundreds of years. It attacked Brahmanism on all sides 
as no religion had done before. Brahmanism was on the wane 
and if not on the wane, it was certainly on the defensive. 
As a result of the spread of Buddhism, the Brahmins had lost 
all power and prestige at the Royal Court and among the 
people. They were smarting under the defeat they had 
suffered at the hands of Buddhism and were making all 
possible efforts to regain their power and prestige. Buddh- 
ism had made so deep an impression on the minds of the 
masses and had taken such a hold of them that it was absolutely 
impossible for the Brahmins to fight the Buddhists except 
by accepting their ways and means and practising the Buddh- 
ist creed inits extreme form. After the death of Buddha 
his followers started setting up the images of the Buddha and 
building stupas. The Brahmins followed it. They, in their 
turn, built temples and installed in them images of Shiva, 
Vishnu and Ram and Krishna etc.,- all with the object of 

What Made the Brahmins Become Vegetarians ? 117 

drawing away the crowd that was attracted by the image 
worship of Buddha. That is how temples and images which 
had no place in Brahmanism came into Hinduism. The 
Buddhists rejected the Brahmanic religion which consisted of 
Yajna and animal sacrifice, particularly of the cow. The 
objection to the sacrifice ot the cow had taken a strong hold 
of the minds of the masses especially as they were an agricul- 
tural population and the cow was a very useful animal. The 
Brahmins in all probability had come to be hated as the killer 
of cows in the same way as the guest had come tobe 
hated as Gognha, the killer of the cow by the householder, 
because vhenever he came a cow had to be killed in his hon- 
our. That being the case, the Brahmins could do nothing to 
improve their position against the Buddhists except by giving 
up the Yajna asaform of worship and the sacrifice of the 
cow. 

That the object of the Brahmins in giving up beef-eat- 
ing was to snatch away from the Buddhist Bikhus the 
supremacy they had acquired is evidenced by the adoption of 
vegetarianism by Brahmins. Why did the Brahmin become 
vegetarian ? The answer is that without becoming vegetarian 
the Brahmins could have recovered the ground they had lost 
in its revival namely, Buddhism. In this connection it must be 
remembered that there was one aspect in which Brahmanism 
suffered in public esteem as compared to Buddhism. That 
was the practice of animal sacrifice which was the essence of 
Brahmanism and to which Buddhism was deadly opposed. 
That in an agricultural population there should be respect 
for Buddhism and revulsion against Brahmanism which 
involved slaughter of animals including cows and _ bullocks is 
only natural. What could the Brahmins do to recover the 
lost ground? To go one better than the Buddhist Bhikshus - 
not only to give up meat-eating but to become vegetarians - 
which they did. That this was the object of the Brahmins 
in becoming vegetarians can be proved in various ways. 

If the Brahmins had acted from conviction that animal 
sacrifice was bad, all that was necessary for-them todo was 
to give up killing animals for sacrifice. It was unnecessary for 
them to be vegetarians. That they did go in for vegetarianism 
makes it obvious that their motive was far-reaching. 

118 Tue Untouebables 

Secondly, it was unnecessary for them to become vegeta- 
rians, For the Buddhist Bhikshus were not vegetarians. 
This statement might surprise many people owing to the 
popular belief that the connection between Ahimsa and 
Buddhism was immediate and essential. It is generally 
believed that the Buddhist Bhikshus eschewed animal food. 
Thisisanerror. The fact is that the Buddhist Bhikshus 
were permitted to eat three kinds of flesh that were deemed 
pure. Later on they were extended to five classes, Yuan 
Chwang the Chinese traveller was aware of this and spoke of 
the pure kinds of flesh as San-Ching. The origin of this 
practice among the Bhikshus is explained by Mr Thomas 
Walters. According to the story told by him!— 

“In the time of Buddha there was in Vaisali a 
wealthy general named Siha who was a convert 
to Buddhism. He became a liberal supporter of 
the Brethren and kept them constantly supplied 
with good flesh- food. When it was noticed 
abroad that the Bhikshus were in the habit of 
eating such food specially provided for them, 
the Tirthikas made the practice a matter of angry 
reproach. Then the abstemious ascetic Brethren, 
learning this, reported the circumstances to the 
Master, who thereupon called the Brethren 
together. When they assembled, he announced 
to them the law that they were not to eat the 
flesh of any animal which they had seen put to 
death for them, or about which they had been 
told that it had been slain for them. But he 
permitted to the Brethren as ‘pure’ (that is, law- 
ful) food the flesh of animals the slaughter of 
which had not been seen by the Bhikshus, not 
heard of by them, and not suspected by them to 
have been on their account. In the Pali and 
Ssiu-fen Vinaya it was after a breakfast given by 
Siha to the Buddha and some of the Brethren, 
for which the carcase of a large ox was procured 
that the Nirgranthas reviled the Bhikshus and 
Buddha instituted this new rule declaring fish 
and flesh ‘pure’ in the three conditions. The 

ae ES te ene 

1. Yuan Chwang (1904) Vol. I. p. 6. 

eee we 

ee eae a ame 

oe 

What Made the Brahmins Become Vegetarians ? 119 

animal food now permitted to the Bhikshus came 
to be known as the ‘three pures’ or ‘three pure 
kinds of flesh’, and it was tersely described as 
‘unseen, unheard, unsuspected’, or as the Chinese 
translations sometimes have it ‘not seen, not heard 
nor suspected to be on my account’. Then two 
more kinds of animal food were declared “lawful 
for the Brethren viz., the flesh of animals which 
had dieda natural death, and that of animals 
which had been killed by a bird of prey or other 
savage creature. So there came to be five class- 
es or descriptions of flesh which the professed 
Buddhist was'‘at liberty to use as food. Then 
the ‘unseen, unheard, unsuspected’ came to be 
treated as one class, and this together with 
the ‘natural death’ and ‘bird killed’ made a 
San-ching.” 

As the Buddhist Bhikshus did eat meat the Brahmins 
had no reason to give it up. Why then did the Brahmins give 
up meat-eating and become vegetarians? It was because 
they did not want to put themselves merely on the same 
footing in the eyes of the public as the Buddhist Bhikshus. 

‘The giving up of the Yajna system and abandonment 
of the sacrifice of the cow could have had only a limited effect. 
Atthe most it would have put the Brahmins on the same 
footing as the Buddhists. The same would have been the 
case if they had followed the rules observed by the Buddhist 
Bhikshus in the matter of meat-eating. It could not have 
given the Brahmins the means of achieving supremacy over 
the Buddhists which was their ambition, They wanted to 
oust the Buddhists from the place of honour and respect 
which they had acquired in the minds of the masses by their 
opposition to the killing of the cow for sacrificial purposes. 
To achieve their purpose the Brahmins had to adopt the 
usual tactics of a wreckless adventurer. It is to beat extrem- 
ism by extremism. It is the strategy which all rightists use to 
overcome the leftists. The only waytobeat the Buddhists 
was to go a step further and be vegetarians. 

There is another reason which can be relied upon to 
support the thesis that the Brahmins started cow-worship, 

120 The Untouchables 

gave up beef-eating and became vegetarians in order to vanq- 
uish Buddhism. It is the date when cow-killing became a 
mortal sin. It is well-known that cow-killing was not made 
an offence by Asoka. Many people expect him to have come 
forward to prohibit the killing of the cow. Prof. Vincent 
Smith regards it as surprising. But there is nothing surpris- 
ing in It. 

Buddhism was against animal sacrifice in general. It 
had no particular affection for the cow. Asoka had there- 
fore no particular reason to make alaw to save the cow. 
What is more astonishing is the fact that cow-killing was 
made a Mahapataka, a mortal sin or acapital offence by the 
Gupta Kings who were champions of Hinduism which recog- 
nised and sanctioned the killing of the cow for sacrificial 
purposes. As pointed out by Mr. D.R. Bhandarkar! — 

“We have got the incontrovertible evidence of 
inscriptions to show that early in the 5th 
century A.D. killing acow was looked upon as 
an offence of the deepest turpitude, turpitude 
as deep as that involved in murdering a Brahman. 
We have thus a copper-plate inscription dated 
465 A.D. and referring itself to the reign of Skan- 
dagupta of the Imperial Gupta dynasty. It 
registers a grant and ends with a verse saying : 
‘Whosoever will transgress this grant that has 
been assigned (shall become as guilty as) the 
slayer of a cow, the slayer of aspiritual preceptor 
(or) the slayer of a Brahman. A. still earlier 
record placing go-fatya on the same footing as 
brahma hatya is that of Chandragupta II, grand- 
father of Skandagupta just mentioned. It bears 
the Gupta date 93, which is equivalent to 412 
A.D. It is engraved on the railing which sur- 
rounds the celebrated Buddhist stupa at Sanchi, in 
Central India. This also speaks of a benefaction 
made by an officer of Chadragupta and ends as 
follows: ... sies “Whosoever shall inter- 
fere with this arrangement - he shall become 
invested with (the guilt of) the slaughter 

1. Some Aspects of Ancient Indian Culture. (1940). pp. 78-79. 

What Made the Brahmins Become Vegetarains ? 121 
of a cow or of a Brahman, and with (the guilt 
of) the five anantarya.” Here the object of this 
statement is to threaten the resumer of the grant, 
be he a Brahminist or a Buddhist , with the sins 
regarded as mortal by each community. The 
anantaryas are the five mahapatakas according to 
Buddhist theology. They are: matricide, patri- 
cide, killing an Arhat, shedding the blood of a 
Buddha, and causing a split among the priesthood. 
The mahapatakas with whicha Brahmuinist is 
here threatened are only two: viz., the killing of a 
cow and the murdering of a Brahman. The 
latter is obviously a mahapataka as it is mentioned 
as such in all the Smritis, but the former has 
been specified only an upapataka by Apastamba, 
Manu, Yajnavalkyaand so forth. But the very 
fact that it is here associated with brahma-hatya 
and both have been put on a par with the anant- 
aryas of the Buddhists shows that in the begin- 
ning of the fifth century A.D.,it wasraised to the 
category of mahapatakas. Thus go-hatya must 
have come to be considered a mahapaltaka at 
least one century earlier, i.e, about the com- 
mencement of the fourth century A.D.” 

The question is why should a Hindu king have cone 
forward to make a law against cow-killing, that is to say, against 
the Laws of Manu? The answer is that the Brahmins had to 
suspend or abrogate a requirement of their Vedic religion in 
order to overcome the supremacy of the Buddhist Bhikshus. 
If the analysis is correct then it is obvious that the worship 
of the cow is the result of the struggle between Buddhism 

and Brahminism. It wasa means adopted by the Brahmins 
to regain their lost position. 

CHAPTER XIV 
Why should Beef-eating make Broken Men Untouchables ? 

The stoppage of beef-eating by the Brahmins and the 
non-Brahmins and the continued use thereof by the Broken 
Men had produced a situation which was different from the 
old. This difference lay in the fact that while in the old 
situation everybody ate beef, in the new situation one scction 
did not and another did. The difference was a glaring differ- 
ence. Everybody could see it. It divided society as nothing 
else did before. All the same, this difference need not have 
given rise to such extreme division of society as is marked by 
Untouchability. It could have remained a social difference. 
There are many cases where different sections of the commu: 
nity differ in their foods. What one likes the other dislikes 
and yet this difference does not create a bar between the two. 

There must therefore be some special reason why in 
India the difference between the Settled Community and the 
Broken Men in the matter of beef-eating created a bar bet- 
ween the two. What can that be? The answer is that if 
beef-eating had remained a secular affair—a mere matter of 
individual taste—such a bar between those who ate beef and 
those who did not -would not have arisen. Unfortunately 
beef-eating, instead of being treated as a purely secular matter, 
was made a matter of religion. This happened because the 
Brahmins made the cow a sacred animal. This made beef- 
eating a sacrilege. The Broken Men being guilty of sacrilege 
necessarily became beyond the pale of Society. 

The answer may not be quite clear to those who have 
no idea of the scope and function of religion in the life of 
the society. They may ask: Why should religion make 
such a difference? It will be clear if the following points regar- 
ding the scope and function of religion are borne in mind. 

To begin with the definition’ of religion. There is one 

This definition of religion is by Prof. E’nvile Durkhiem,See his ‘The 
Elementary Forms of the Religious Life’ p. 47. For the discussion 
that follows I have drawn upon the same authority. 

Why should Beef-eating make Broken Men Untonchables ? 123 

universal feature which characterises all religions. This 
feature lies in religion being a unified system of beliefs and 
practices which (1) relate to sacred things and (2) which 
unite into one single community all those who adhere to 
them. To put it slightly differently, there are two elements 
in every religion. One is that religion is inseparable from 
cacted things. The other is that religion is a collective 
thing inseparable from society. 

The first element in religion presupposes a classification 
of all things, real and ideal, which are the subject-matter of 
man’s thougut, into two distinct classes which are generally 
designated by two distinct terms the sacred and the profane, 
popularly spoken of as secular. 

This defines the scope of religion. For understanding 
the function of religioa the following points regarding things 
sacred should be noted: 

The first thing to note is that things sacred are not 
merely higher than or superior in dignity and status to those 
that are profane. They are just different. The sacred and 
the profane do not belong to the same class. There isa 
complete dichotomy between the two. As Prof. Durkhiem 
observes! :— 

“The traditional opposition of good and bad is 
nothing beside this; for the good and the bad are 
only two opposed species of the same class, 
namely, morals, just as sickness and health are 
two different aspects of the same order of facts, 
life, while the sacred and the profane have 
always and everywhere been conceived by the 
human mind as two distinct classes, as two worlds 
between which there is nothing in common.” 

The curious may want to know what has led men to 
see in this world this dichotomy between the sacred and 
profane. We must however refuse to enter into this discus- 
sion as it is unnecessary for the immediate purpose we have 
in mind. 

1. Prof. Durkhiem’s ‘The Elementary Forms of the Religious J.ife.’ p. 38. 
2. The curious may refer to page 317 of the above book. 

124 The Untouchables 

Confining ourselves to the issue the next thing to note 
is that the circle of sacred objects is not fixed. Its extent 
varies infinitely from religion to religion. Gods and spirits 
are not the only sacred things. A rock, a tree, an animal, a 
spring, a pebble, a piece of wood, a house, in a word anything 
can be sacred. 

Things sacred are always associated with interdictions 
otherwise called taboos. To quote Prof. Durkhiem! again: 

“Sacred things are those which the interdictions 
protect and isolate; profane things, those to which 
these interdictions are applied and which must 
remain at a distance from the first.” 

Religious interdicts take multiple forms. Most impor- 
tant of these is the interdiction on contact. The interdiction 
on contact rests upon the principle that the profane should 
never touch the sacred. Contact may be established in a 
variety of ways other than touch. A look is a means of 
contact. That is why the sight of sacred things is forbidden 
to the profane in certain cases. For instance, women are not 
allowed to see certain things which are regarded as sacred. 
The word (ie., the breath which forms part of man and which 
spreads outside him) 1s another means of contact. That is 
why the profane is forbidden to address the sacred things or 
to utter them. For instance, the Veda must be uttered only 
by the Brahmin and not by the Shudra. An exceptionally 
intimate contact is the one resulting from the absorption ot 
food. Hence comes the interdiction against eating the sacred 
animals or vegetables. 

The interdictions relating to the sacred are not open to 
discussion, They are beyond discussion and must be accepted 
without question. The sacred is ‘untouchable’ in-the sense 
that it is beyond the pale of debate. All that one can do is 
to respect and obey. 

| Lastly the interdictions relating to the sacred are bind- 
ing on all. They are not maxims. They are injunctions. 
They are obligatory but not in the ordinary sense of the word. 

1. ‘The Elementary Forms of the Religions Life’ p.41. Interdictions 
which come from religion must be distinguished from those which 
proceed from magic. Fora discussion of this subject see Ibid. p. 800. 

et en ee ee 

rn ne et oe en 

Why should Beef-eating make Broken Men Untouchables ? 126 

They partake of the nature of a categorical imperative. Their 
breach js more than acrime. It is a sacrilege. 

The above summary should be enough for an under- 
standing of the scope and function of religion. It is unneces- 
sary to enlarge upon the subject further. The analysis of the 
working of the laws of the sacred which is the core 
of religion should enable any one to see that my answer to 
the question why beef-eating should make the Broken Men 
untouchables is the correct one. All that is necessary to reach 
the answer I have proposed is to read the analysis of the 
working f the laws of the sacred with the cow as the sacred 
object. lt will be found that Untouchability is the result of 
the breach of the interdiction against the eating of the sacred 
animal, namely, the cow. 

As has been said, the Brahmins made the cow a sacred 
animal. They did not stop to make a difference between a 
living cow and a dead cow. The cow was sacred, living or 
dead. Beef-eating was not merely acrime. If it was only a 
crime it would have involved nothing more than punishment. 
Beef-eating was made a sacrilege. Anyone who treated the 
cow as profane was guilty of sin and unfit for association. 
The Broken Men who continued to eat beef became guilty 
of sacrilege. 

Once the cow became sacred and the Broken Men con- 
tinued to eat beef, there was no other fate left for the Broken 
Men except to be treated unfit for association, Le., as 
Untouchables. 

Before closing the subject it may be desirable to dispose 
of possible objections to the thesis. Two such objections to 
the thesis appear obvious. One is what evidence is there 
that the Eroken Men did eat the flesh of the dead cow. The 
second is why did they not give up beef-eating when the 
Brahmins and the non-Brahmins abandoned it. These ques- 
tions have an important bearing upon the theory of the 
origin of untouchability advanced in this book and must 
therefore be dealt with. 

The first question is relevant as well as crucial. If the 
Broken Men were eating beef from the very beginning, then 
obviously the theory cannot stand. For, if they were eating 

126 The Untouchables 

beef from the very beginning and nonetheless were not trea- 
ted as Untouchables, to say that the Broken Men became Un- 
touchables because of beef-eating would be illogical if not 
senseless. The second question is relevant, if not crucial. 
If the Brahmins gave up beef-eating and the non-Brahmins 
imitat2d them why did the Broken Men not do the same? 
If the law made the killing of the cow a capital sin because 
the cow became a sacred animal to the Brahmins and non- 
Brahmins, why were the Broken Men not stopped from eating 
beef? If they had been stopped from eating beef there would 
have been no Untouchability. 

The answer to the first question is that even during the 
period when beef-eating was commonto both the Settled 
Tribesmen and the Broken Men a system had grown up 
whereby the Settled Community ate fresh beef, while the 
Broken Men ate the flesh of the dead cow. We have no 
positive evidence to show that members of the Settled Com- 
munity never ate the flesh of the dead cow. But we have 
negative evidence which shows that the dead cow had become 
an exclusive possession and perquisite of the Broken Men. 
The evidence consists of facts which relate to the Mahars of 
the Maharashtra to whom reference has already been made. 
As has already been pointed out, the Mahars of the Maha- 
rashtra claim the right to take the dead animal. This right 
they claim against every Hindu in the village. This means 
that no Hindu can eat the flesh of his own animal when it. 
dies. Efe has to surrender it to the Mahar. This is merely 
another way of stating that when eating beef was a common 
practice the Mahars ate dead beef and the Hindus ate fresh 
beef. The only questions that arise are : Whether what is 
true of the present is true of the ancient past ? Can this fact 
which ts true of the Maharashtra be taken as typical of the 
arrangement between the Settled Tribes and the Broken Men 
throughout India ? 

In this connection reference may be made to the tradi- 
tion current among the Mahars according to which they claim 
that they were given 52 rights against the Hindu villagers by 
the Muslim King of Bedar. Assuming that they were given 
by the King of Bedar, the King obviously did not create them 
for the first time. They must have been in existence from 

Why should Beef-eatiag make Broken Men Untouchables ? 127 

the ancient past. What the King did was merely to confirm 
them. This means that the practice of the Broken Men eating 
dead meat and the Settled Tribes eating fresh meat must have 
grown in the ancient past. That such an arrangement should 
grow up is certainly most natural. The Settled Community 
was a wealthy community with agricultural and cattle as 
means of livelihood. The Broken Men were a community 
of paupers with no means of livelihood and entirely dependent 
upon the Settled Community. The principal item of food for 
both was beef. It was possible for the Settled Community to 
kill an animal for food because it was possessed of cattle. The 
Broken Men ceculd not for they had none. Would it be 
unnatural in these circumstances for the Settled Community 
to have agreed to give to the Broken Men its dead animals as 
part of their wages of watch and ward? Surely not. It can 
therefore be taken for granted that in the ancient past when 
both the Settled Community and Broken Men did eat beet 
the former ate fresh beef and the latter of the dead cow and 
that this svstem represented a_ universal state of affairs 
ke a India and was not confined to the Maharashtra 
alone. 

This disposes of the first objection. To turn to the 
second objection. The law made by the Gupta Emperors 
was intended to prevent those who killed cows. It did not 
apply to the Broken Men. For they did not kill the cow. 
They only ate the dead cow. Their conduct did not contra= 
vene the law against cow-killing. The practice of eating the 
flesh of.the dead cow therefore was allowed to continue. 
Nor did their conduct contravene the doctrine of Ahimsa 
assuming that it had anything to do with the abandonment of 
beef-eating by the Brahmins and the non-raBhmins. Killing 
the cow was Himsa. But eating the dead cow was not. The 
Broken Men had therefore no cause for feeling qualms of 
conscience in continuing to eat the dead cow. Neither the 
law nor the doctrine of Himsa could interdict what they were 
doing, for what they were doing was neither contrary to law 
nor to the doctrine. 

As to why they did not imitate the Brahmins and the 
non-Brahmins the answer is twofold. In the first place, 
Imitation was too costly. They could not afford it. The 
flesh of the dead cow was their principal sustenance. Wia£ith- 

128 The Untouchables 

out it they would starve. In the second place, carrying the 
dead cow had become an obligation! though originally it was 
a privilege. As they could not escape carrying the dead cow 
they did not mind using the flesh as food in the manner in 
which they were doing previously. 

The objections therefore do not invalidate the thesis in 
any way. 

1. Owing to the reform movement among the Mahars the position has be- 
come just the reverse. The Mahars refuse to take the dead animal 
while the Hindu villagers force them to take it. 

PART VI 

Untouchability and the Date of its Birth 
Chapter XV. The Impure and The Untouchables. 
Chapter XVI. When did Broken Men become Untouchables 

CHAPTER XV 
The Impure and The Untouchables 
I 

When did Untouchability come into. existence? The 
orthodox Hindus insist that it is very ancient in its origin. In 
support of their contention reliance is placed on the fact that 
the observance of Untouchability is enjoined not merely by 
the Smritis which are ofa later date but it is also enjoined 
by the Dharma Sutras which are much earlier and 

which, according to certain authors,-date some centuries 
before B.C. 

In a study devoted to exploring the origin of Untouch- 
ability the question one must begin withis: Is Un- 
touchability as old as is suggested to be ? 

For an answer to this question one has to examine the 
Dharma Sutras in order to ascertain what they mean when 
they. refer to Untouchability and to the Untouchables. 
Do they mean by Untouchability what we understand by 
it to-day ? Do the class, to which they refer, Untouch- 
ie in the sense in which we use the term Untouchables 
to-day ? 

To begin with the first question. An examination of 
the Dharma Sutras no doubt shows that they speak of a class 
whom they call Asprashya. There is also no doubt that the 
term Asprashya does mean Untouchable. The question 
however remains whether the Asprashya of the Dharma 
Sutras are the same as the Asprashya of modern India. This 
question becomes important when it is realized that the 
Dharma Sutras also use a variety of other terms such as 
Antya, Antyaja, Antyavasin and Bahya- These terms are 
also used by the later Smritis. It might be well to have some 
idea of the use of these terms by the different Sutras and 
Smritis. The following table is intended to serve that 
purpose :—— 

132 The Untouchables 

I. Asprashya 

Dharma Sutra | Smriti 

et tr ae: 

1. Vishnu V. 104. 

oe fe a = ee ett 

1. Katyayana verses 433, 783. 

Il. Antya 

Dharma Sutras | Smriti 

ee ee 

CT TR A NTS ee a ORL ee et 8 

1. Manu IV. 79; VIII. 68 
1. Vasishta. (16-30) 
2. Yajnavalkya I. 148. 197. 
3. Atri 25, 
4 

. Likhita 92. 

2. Apastambha (III1) 

Iii, Bahya 
Dharma Sutra Smriti 
1. Apastambha 1.2.39.18 1. Manu 28. 

2. Vishnu 16. 14 2. Narada I.155. 

IV. Antyavasin 

Dharma Sutra | Smriti 

22) a, 

1. Gautama XXXI; XXIII 32 | 1. Manu IV. 79; X.39 

a ee een 

ret Ne eR 

2. Vasishta XVIII, 3 2. Shanti Parvan of the 
Mahabharatha 141; 29-32 

3. Madhyamangiras (quoted 
in Mitakshara on Yaj. 
3.280. 

The Impure and The Untouchables 133 
V. Antyaja 

Ey 

Dharma Sutra Smriti 

| 
1. Vishnu 36.7 1. Manu IV. 61; VIII. 279 

2. Yajnavalkya 12.73 
3. Brihadyama Smriti (quoted 
by Mitakshara on Yajna- 
valkya III. 200) 
4. Atri. 199 

5. Veda Vyas 1. 12. 13. 

II 

The next question is whether the classes indicated by 
the terms Antya, Antyaja, Antyavasin and Babya are the same 
as those indicated by the term Asprashya which etymologically 
means an Untouchable. In other words are they only 
different namcs for the same class of people ? 

It is an unfortunate fact that the Dharma Sutras do not 
enable us to answer this question. The term Asprashya 
occurs in two places (in one Sutra and one Smriti). But not 
one gives an enumeration of the classes included init. The 
same is the case with the term Antya. Although the word 
Antya occurs in six places (in two Sutras and four Smritis) 
not one enumerates who they are. Similarly, the word Bahya 
occurs in four places (in two Sutras and two Smritis), but none 
of them mentions what communities are included under this 
term. Theonly exception is with regard to the terms 
Antyavasin and Antyajas, Here again no Dharma Sutra enu- 
merates them. But there is an enumeration of them in the 
Smritis, The enumeration of the Antyavasin occurs in the 
Smriti known as Madhyamangiras and that of the Antyajas in 
the Atri Smriti and Veda Vyas Smriti. Who they are, will 
be apparent from the following table -- 

134 The Untouchables 

ANTYAVASIN ANTYAJA 
Madhyamangiras. Atri Veda Vyas 
1. Chandala. Nata. 1. Chandala. 
2. Shvapaka. Med.; 2. Shvapaka. 
3. Kshatta. Bhilla. j J. Nata. 

4. Suta. . Rajaka, 4. Meda. 
5. Vaidehika. _ Charmkar. 5. Bhilla. 
6. Magadha. . Buruda. 6. Rajaka 
7: Ayogava. _ Kayavarta. 7. Charmkar. 
8. Virat. 
9. Dasa. 
10. Bhatt. 
11. Kolika. 
12. Pushkar 

From this table it is quite clear that there is neither 
precision nor agreement with regard to the use of the terms 
Antyavasin and Antyaja. For instance Chandala and Shvapak 
fall in both the categories Antyavasin and Antvyaja according 
to Madhyamangiras and Veda Vyas. But when one compares 
Madhyamangiras with Atri they fall in different categories. 
The same is true with regard to the term Antyaja. For 
example while (1) Chandala and (2) Shvapaka are Antyajas 
according to Veda Vyas, according to Atri they are not 

The Impure and The Untouchables 135 

Again according to Atri (1) Buruda and (2) Kayavarta are 
Antyajas while according to Veda Vyas they are not. Again 
(1) Virat (2) Dasa (3) Bhatt (4) Kolika and (5) Pushkar 
are Antyaja according to Veda Vyas but according to Atri 
they are not. 

.To sum up the position reached so far: neither the 
Dharma Sutras nor the Smritis help us to ascertain who were 
included in the category of Asprashya. Equally useless are the 
Dharma Sutras and the Smritis to enable us to ascertain whe- 
ther the classes spoken of as Antyavasin, Antyaja and Bahya 
were the same as Asprashya. Is there any other way of ascer- 
taining whether any of these formed into the category of 
Asprashya or Untouchables? It would be better to collect 
together whatever information is available about each of 
these classes. 

What about the Bahyas? Who are they? What are 
they? Are they Untouchables? They are mentioned by 
Manu. To understand their position, it is necessary to refer 
to Manu’s scheme of social classification. Manu divides the 
people into various categories. He first! makes a broad divi- 
sion between (1) Vaidikas and (2) Dasyus. He then proceeds 
to divide the Vaidikas into four sub-divisions: (1) Those 
inside Chaturvarnya (2) Those outside Chaturvarnya (3)Vratya 
and (4) Patitas or outcastes. 

Whether a person was inside Chaturvarnya or outside, 
was a question to be determined by the Varna of the parents. 
If he was born of the parents of the same Varnas, he was in- 
side the Chaturvarnya. If, on the other hand, he was born of 
parents of different Varnas 1.e. he was the progeny of mixed 
marriages or what Manu calls Vavna Samkara, then he was 
outside the Chaturvarnya. Those outside Chaturvarnya are 
further sub-divided by Manu into two classes (1) Anulomas 
and (2) Pratilomas. Anulomas’ were those whose fathers 
were of a higher Varna and mothers of a lower Varna. 
Pratilomas, on the other hand, were those whose fathers were 
of a lower Varna and the mothers of a higher ‘Varna, 
Though both the Anulomas and Pratilomas were alike for the 
reason that they were outside the Chaturvarnya, Manu pro- 
ceeds to make a distinction between them. The Anulomas, 

1. See Manu 1. 45. 2. See Manu 1. 46. 

rere ea ne ee ne 

136 The Untouchables 

he calls Varna Bahya or shortly Bakyas, while Pratilomas he 
calls Hinas. The Hinas are lower than the Bahyas. But 
neither the Bahyas nor the Hinas does Manu regard as 
Untouchables. 

Antya as aclass is mentioned in Manu IV.79. Manu 
however does not enumerate them. Medhatithiin his com- 
mentary suggests that Antya means Mlecha, such as Meda etc. 
Buhler translates Antya as a low-caste man. 

There is thus nothing to indicate that the Antyas were 
Untouchables. In all probability, it is the name given to those 
people who were living in the outskirts or end (Anta) of ‘he 
village. The reason why they came to be regarded as low 1s 
to be found in the story narrated in the Brihadranyaka 
Upanishad (1.3) to which reference is made by Mr. Kane} 
The story is that— 

“Gods and Asuras had a strike and the gods 
thought that they might rise superior to the 
Asuras by the Udgithana. In this occurs 
the passage ‘this devata (Prana) throwing aside 
the sin that was death to these devatas (vak etc.) 
sent it to ends of these devatas there ; therefore 
one should not go to the people outside the Ary- 
an pale nor to disam anta (the ends of the 
quarters) thinking ‘otherwise I may fall in with 
papmani i.e,, death”. 

The meaning of Antya turns on the connotation of 
the phrase ‘disam Anta’ which occurs in the passage quoted 
above, If the phrase ‘ends of the quarters’ can be translated 
as meaning the end of the periphery of the village, without its 
being called a far-fetched translation, we have here an 
explanation of what Antya originally meant. It does not 
suggest that the Antyas were Untouchables. It only meant 
that they were living on the outskirts of the village. 

Asto the Antyajas, what we know about them is 
enough to refute the view that they were Untouchables. 
Attention may be drawn to the following facts? : 

In the Shanti Parvan (109. 9) of the Mahabharat there 

ae ea —_— re Oo eo ce ee pe ee 

I, History of ‘Dhariia: Shantta II. Part J, p. 167. 
° Kane— History of Dharma Shastra. Vol. II. part I. p. 70. 

The Impure and The Untouchables 137 

is a refernce to Antyajas who are spoken of as Soldiers in the 
Army. According to Sarasvativilasa, Pitamaha speaks of the 
seven castes of Rajakas included in the term Antyaja as Prak- 
ritis. That Prakritis mean trade guilds such as of washermen 
and others is quite clear from the Sangamner Plate of Bhilla- 
ma II dated Saka 922 which records the grant of a village to 
eighteen Prakritis. Viramitrodya says that Srenis mean the 
eighteen castes such as the Kajaka etc., which are collectively 
called Antyajas. In view of these facts how could the Antya- 
jas be said to have been regarded as the Untouchables ? 

Coming to the Antyavasin, who were they? Were they 
Untouchables ? The term Antyavasin has been used in two 
different senses. In one sense it was applied to a Brahmacha- 
ri living in the house ot the Guru during his term of student- 
ship. A Brahmachari was referred to as Antyavasin.! It probab- 
ly meant one who was served last. Whatever the reason for 
calling a Brahmachari Antyavasin itis beyond dispute that 
the word in that connection could not connote Untouchability. 
How could it when only Brahmins, Kshatriyas and Vaishyas 
could become Brahmacharis. In another sense they refer to 
a body otf people. But even in this sense it is doubtful if it 
means Untouchables. 

According to Vas.Dh.Sutra (18.3) they are the offspring 
of aSudra father and Vaishya mother. But according to 
Manu (V.39) they are the offspring of a Chandala father and 
a Nishad mother. As to the class to which they belong the 
Mitakshara says they are a sub-group of the Antyajas which 
means that the Antyavasin were not different from the 
Antyajas. What is therefore true of the Antyajas may also 
be taken as true of the Antyavasin. 

III 

Stopping here to take stock of the situation as it emerges 
from such information as we have regarding the social condi- 
tion of the people called Antyavasin, Antya, Antyaja, as is 
available from ancient literature, obviously it is not open to 
say that these classes were Untouchables in the modern sense 
of theterm. However, for the satisfaction of those who may 
still have some doubt, the matter may be further examined 

— ew 

1. Amarkosh II Kanda Brahmabarga Verse II. 

Veen Sen ee ee 

138 The Untouchables 

from another point of view. Granting that they were desc- 
ribed as Asprashya we may proceed to inquire as to what was 
the connotation of the term inthe days of the Dharma 
Sutras. 

For this purpose we must ascertain the rules of atone- 
ment prescribed by the Shastras. From the study of these 
rules we will be able to see whether the term Asprashya had 
the same connotationin the times of the Dharma Sutras as 
it has now. 

Let us take the case of the Chandalas as an illustration 
of the class called Asprashya. In the first place, it should be 
remembered that the word Chandala does not denote one 
single homogeneous class of people. It is one word for many 
classes of people, all different from one another. There are 
altogether five different classes of Chandalas who are referred 
to in the Shastras. They are (i) the offspring of a Shudra father 
and a Brahmin mother;! (ii) the offspring of an unmarried 
woman! (iii) the offspring of union with a sagotra woman’ 
(iv) the offspring of a person who after becoming an ascetic 
turns back to the householder’s life‘ and (v) the offspring 
of a barber father and a Brahmin mother’. 

It is difficult to say which Chandala calls for purifica— 
tion. We shall assume that purification is necessary in the 
case of all the Chandalas. Whatis the rule of purification 
prescribed by the Shastras ? 

Gautama in his Dharma Sutra (Chapter XIV, Verse 30) 
also refers to it in the following terms:— 

“On touching an outcaste, a Chandala, a woman 
impure on account of her confinement, a woman 
in her courses, or a corpse and on touching per- 
sons who have touched them, he shall purify him- 
self by bathing dressed in his clothes.” 

Below is the text of the rule given by the Vasishta 
Dl arma Sutra (Chapter IV, Verse 37):— 

ee eee ee 

1. According to all Dharma Sutras and Smritis including Manu Smriti. 
2.8. According to Veda Vyas Smriti (1.-9!0) 

4. According to Yama quoted in Parasura Madhavya. 

5, Apusasan Parva (29-17). He is also called Matanga. 

The Impure and The Untouchables 139 

“When he has touched a sacrificial post, a pyre, a 
burial ground, a menstruating or a lately confined 
woman, impure men or Chandalas and so forth, 
he shall bathe, submerging both his body and his 
head.” 

Baudhayana agrees with Vasishta for he too in his 
Dharma Sutra (Prasna (, Adhyaya 5, Khanda 6, Verse 5) says: 

“On touching a tree standing ona sacred spot, a 
funeral pyre, a _ sacrificial post, a Chandala ora 
person who sells the Veda, a Brahmin shall bathe 
dressed in his clothes.” 

The following are the rules contained in Manu:— 
V.85: When he (the Brahmin) has touched a 

Chandala, a menstruating woman, an 
outcaste, a woman in childbed, a corpse, 
or one who has touched a (corpse), he be- 
comes pure by bathing. 

V.131: Manu _ has declared that the flesh of an 
animal killed by dogs is pure, likewise 
(that) of a (beast) slain by carnivorous 
(animals) or by men of low caste (Dasya) 
such as Chandalas. 

V.143:He who, while carrying anything in any 
manner, is touched by an impure (person 
or thing), shall become pure, if he per- 
forms an ablution, without pulling down 
that object. 

From these texts drawn from the Dharma Sutras as well 
as Manu, the following points are clear :-- 

(1) That the pollution by the touch of the Chandala 
was observed by the Brahmin only. 

(2) That the pollution was probably observed on cere- 
monial occasions only. 

IV 

__ Tf these conclusions are right then this is a case of Im- 
purity as distinguished from Untouchability. The distinction 
between the Impure and the Untouchable is very clear. The 

140 The Untouchables 

Untouchable pollutes all while the Impure pollutes only the 
Brahmin. The touch of the Impure causes pollution only on 
a ceremonial occasion. The touch of the Untouchable causes 
pollution at all times. 

There is another argument to which so far no 
reference has been made which completely disproves the 
theory that the communities mentioned in the Dharma 
Sutras were Untouchables. That argument emerges out of 
a comparison of the list of communities given in the 
Order-in-Council (which is reproduced in Chapter II) with 
the list given in this chapter prepared from the Smritis. 
hese does the comparison show ? As anyone can see, it 
shows :— 

fustly: The maximum number of communities 
mentioned in the Smritis is only 12, while the number of 
communities mentioned in the Order-in-Council comes 
to 429, 

Secondly: There are communities which find a place 
in the-Order-in-Council but which do not find’a place in the 
Smritis.' Out of the total of 429 there are nearly 427 which 
are unknown to the Smritis. 

Thirdly: There are communities mentioned in the 

— which do not find a place in the Order-in-Council at 
all. 

Fourthly: There is only one community which finds 
a place in both. It is the Charmakar community.” 

Those who do not admit that the Impure are different 
from the Untouchables do not seemto be aware of these 
facts. But they will have to reckon with them. These facts 
are so significant and so telling that they cannot but force 
the conclusion that the two are. different. 

Take the first fact. It raises a very important question. 

Ltememmee teens tana 
OVW OTTER WOOT COS CU STU ESS EAESDE EF 

20 eo PP Oe Es ween 5s CeO eUEC TERE Et eremetETeT © we en ret en ee ee gene enn et as ee 

1, Out of the 429 communities mentioned in the Order-in-Council, there 
are only 3 which are to be fuund in the list given by the Smritis. 

2. There are also two other communities mentioned in both lists (1) Nata 

and (2) Rajaka. But according to the Order-in-Council they are 
Untouchables in some parts of the country only. The Chamar is 
Untouchable throughout India. 

The Impure and The Untouchables 141 

If the two lists refer to one and the same class of people, 
why do they differ and differ so widely? How is it that the 
communities mentioned in the Shastras do not appear in the 
list given in the Order-in-Council? Contrarywise, how is it 
that the communities mentioned in the Order-in-Council are 
not to be found in the list given by the Shastras? This is 
the first difficulty we have to face. 

On the assumption that they refer to the same class of 
people, the question assumes a serious character. If they ref- 
er to the same class of people then obviously Untouchability 
which was originally confined to 12 communities came to be 
extended to 429 communities! What has led to this vast 
extension of the Empire of Untouchability? If these 429 com- 
munities belong to the same class as the 12 mentioned by the 
Shastras why none of the Shastras mention them? It cannot 
be that none of the 429 communities were not in existence 
at the time when the Shastras were written. Ifall of them 
were not in existence at least some of them must have been. 
Why even such as did exist find no mention ? 

On the footing that both the lists belong to the same 
class of people, it is difficult to give any satisfactory answer 
to these questions. If, on the other hand, it is assumed that 
these lists refer totwo different classes of people, all these 
questions disappear. The two lists are different because the 
list contained in the Shastras is a list of the Impure and the 
list contained in the Order-in-Council is a list of the Un- 
touchables. This is the reason why the two lists differ. The 
divergence in the two lists merely emhasizes what has been 
urged on other grounds, namely, that the classes mentioned in 
Shastras are only Impure and it is a mistake to confound them 
with the Untouchables of the present day. 

Now turn to the second. If the Impure are the same as 
the Untouchables, why is it as many as 427 out 429 should be 
unknown to the Smritis ? As communities, they must have 
been in existence at the time of the Smritis. If they are 
Untouchables now, they must have been Untouchables then. 
Why then did the Smritis fail to mention them? 

What about the third? If the Impure andthe Untouch- 
ables are one and the same, why those communities which 

142 The Untouchables 

find a place in the Smritis do not find a place in the list given 
in the Order-in-Council? There are only two answers to this 
question. One is that though Untouchables at one time, they 
ceased to be Untouchables subsequently. The other is that 
the two lists contain names of communities who fall 
in altogether different categories. The first answer 1s 
untenable. For, Untouchability is permanent, Time cannot 
erase it or cleanse it. The only possible conclusion is the 
second. 

Take the fourth. Why should Chamar alone find a 
place in the lists? The answer is not that the two lists inc- 
lude the same class of people. If it wasthe true answer, then 
not only the Chamar but all others included in the list given 
by the Smritis should appear in both the lists. But they do 
not. The true answer is that the two lists contain two 
different classes of people. The reason why some of those 
in the list of the Impure appear in the list of the Untouch- 
ables is that the Impure ‘at one time became Untouchables. 
That the Chamar appears in both is far from being ,evidence 
to support the view that there is no difference between the 
Impure and the Untouchables. It proves that the Chamar who 
was at one time an Impure, subsequently became an Untouch- 
able and had therefore to be included in both the lists. Of 
the twelve communities mentioned in the Smritis as Impure 
communities, only the Chamar should have been degraded to 
the status of an Untouchable is not difficult to explain. What 
has made the difference between the Chamar and the other 
impure communities is the fact of beet-eating. Itis only 
those among the Impure who were eating beef that became 
Untouchables, when the cow became sacred and beef-eating 
became a sin. The Chamar is the only beef-eating communi- 
ty. Thatis why it alone appears in both the lists. The 
answer to the question relating to the Chamars is decisive on 
two points. It is conclusive on the point that the Impure 
are different from the Untouchables. It is also decisive on 
the point that it is beef-eating which is the root of Untouch- 
ability and which divides the Impure and the Untouchables. 

The conclusion that Untouchability is not the same as 
Impurity has an important bearing on the determination of 
the date of birth of Untouchability. Without it any attempt 
at fixing the date would be missing the mark. 

CHAPTER XVI | 
When did Broken Men become Untouchables ? 

The foregoing researches and discussions have proved 
that there was atime when the village in India consisted of a 
Settled Community and Broken Men and that though both 
lived apart, the former inside the village and the latter out- 
side it, there was no bar to social intercourse between the 
members of the Settled Community and the Broken Men. 
When the cow became sacred and beef-eating became taboo, 
society became divided into two- the Settled Community 
became a touchable community and Broken Men became an 
untouchable community. When did the Broken Men come 
to be regarded as Untouchables? That isthe last question 
that remains to be considered. There are obvious difficulties 
in the way of fixing a precise date for the birth of Untouch- 
ability. Untouchability is an aspect of social psychology. It 
is a sort of social nausea of one group against another group. 
Being an outgrowth of social psychology which must have 
taken some time to acquire form and shape, nobody can ven- 
ture to fix a precise date to a phenomenon which probably 
began asa cloud no bigger than man’s hand and grew till 
it took its final all-pervading shape as we know it today. 
When could the seed of Untcuchability be said to have been 
sown? If it is not possible to fix an exact date, is it possible 
to fix an approximate date? 

An exact date is not possible. But it is -possible tu 
give an approximate date. For this the first thing to do is to 
begin by fixing the upper time-limit at which Untouchability 
did not exist and the lower time-limit at which it had come 
into operation. 

To begin with the question of fixing the upper limit 
the first thing to note is that those who are called Antyajas 
are mentioned in the Vedas. But they were not only not 
regatded as Untouchables but they were noteven regarded 
as Impure. The following extract from Kane may be quoted 
in support of this couclusion. Says Kane’. 

Cb re OS Se re) ey ee a 8 ee ee a ee a ei eT RO pee 

1. Discus Sins Vol IL Part L p 165. 

yO reer rere ny ee ate EY HEE ee oe ns oe we Lemar 

144 Tae Untouchables 

“In the early Vedic literature several of the names 
cf castes that are spoken of in the Smritis as 
Antyajas occur. We have Carmanna (a tanner 
of hides) in the Rig Veda (VI1II.8,38) the Chan- 
dala and Paulkasa occur in Vaj:S., the Vepa or 
Vapta (barber) éven in the Rig., the Vidalakara 
or Bidalakar (corresponding to the Buruda of the 
Smritis) occurs in the Vaj.S. and the Tai.Br. Vas- 
ahpalpuli (washer woman) corresponding to the 
Rajakas of the Smritis in Vaj.S. But there is no 
indication in these passages whether they, even 
if they formed castes, were at all Untouchables.” 

Thus in Vedic times there was no Untouchability. As 
to the period of the Dharma Sutras, we have seen that there 
was Impurity but there was no Untouchability. 

Was there Untouchability in the time of Manu? 
This question cannot be answered offhand. There is a 
passage' in which he says. that there are only four varnas 
and that there is no fifth varna. The passage is enigmatical. 
It is difficult to make out what it means. Quite obviously 
the statement by Manu is an attempt by him to settlea 
controversy that must have been going on at the time he 
wrote. Quite obviously the controversy was about the 
Status of a certain class in relation to the system of Chatur- 
varnya. Equally obvious is the point which was the centre 
of the controversy. To put briefly, the point was whether 
this class was to be deemed to be included within the 
Chaturvarnya or whether it was to be a fifth varna quite 
distinct from the original four varnas. All this is quite 
clear. What is, however, not clear is the class to which it 
refers. This is because Manu makes no specific mention of 
the class involved in the controversy. 

The verse is also enigmatical because of the ambiguity 
in the decision given by Manu. Manu’s decision is that 
there is no fifth varna. As a general proposition it has a 
meaning which everybody can understand. But what does™ 
this decision mean in the concrete application to the class 
whose status was the subject-matter of controversy. Obvi- 
ously it is capable of two interpretations. It may mean that 

— 

1. Manu X, 4. 

W hen did Broken Men become Untouchables ? 145 

as according to the scheme of Chaturvarna there is no fifth 
varna the class in question must be deemed to belong to one 
of the four recognized varnas. But it may also mean that 
as in the original Varna System there is no provision for a 
fifth varna the class in question must be deemed fo be aut- 
side the Varna System altogether. 

The traditional interpretation adopted by the orthodox 
Hindu is that the statement in Manu refers to the Untouch- 
ables, that it was the Untouchables whose status was in 
controversy and that it was their status which is the subject- 
matter of Manu’s decision. This interpretation is so firmly 
established that it has given rise to a division of Hindus into 
two classes called by different names, Savarnas or Hindus 
(those included in the Chaturvarna) and Avarnas or 
Untouchables (those excluded from the Chaturvarna). 
The question is, isthis view correct? To whom does the 
text refer? Does it refer to the Untouchables? A discus- 
sion of this question may appear to be out of place and 
remote from the question under consideration. But it is 
not so. For if the text does refer to the Untouchables then it 
follows that Untouchability did exist in the time of Manu— 
a conclusion which touches the very heart of the question 
under consideration. The matter must, therefore, be 
thrashed out. 

I am sure this interpretation is wrong. I hold that 
the passage does not refer to the Untouchables at all. 
Manu does rot say which was the fifth class whose status 
was in controversy and about whose status he has given 
a decision in this passage. Was it the class of Untouchables 
or was it some other class? In support of my conclusion 
that the passage does not refer to Untouchables at all 1 rely 
on two circumstances. In the first place, there was no Un- 
touchability in the time of Manu. There was only Impurity. 
Even the Chandala for whom Manu has nothing but con- 
tempt is only an impure person. That being so, this passage 
cannot possibly have any reference to Untouchables. In the 
second place, there is evidence to support the view that this 
passage has reference to slaves and not to Untouchables. 
This view is based on the language of the passage quoted from 
the Narada Smriti in the chapter on the Occupational Theory 
of Untouchability. It will be noticed that the Narada 

146 The Untouchables 

Smriti speaks of the slaves as the fifth class. lf the expres- 
sion fifth class in the Narada Smriti refers to slaves, I see no 
reason why the expression fifth class in Manu Smriti should 
not be taken to have reference to slaves. If this reasoning 
is correct, it cuts at the very root of the contention that 
Untouchability existed in the time of Manu and that Manu 
was not prepared co include them as part of the Varna 
System. For the reasons stated, the passage does not refer 
to Untouchability and there 1s, therefore, no reason tu 
conclude that there was Untouchability in the time of Manu. 

Thus we can be sure of fixing the upper limit for the 
date of the birth of Untouchability. We can definitely 
say that Manu Smriti did not enjoin’ Untouchability. 
There, however, remains one important question. What 
is the date of Manu Smriti? Without an answer to this 
question it would not be possible for the average to relate the 
existence or non-existence of Untouchability to any parti- 
cular point in time. There is no unanimity dmong savants 
regarding the date of Manu Smriti. Some regard it as very 
ancient and some regard it as very recent. After taking all 
facts into consideration Prof. Buhler has fixed a date which 
appears to strike the truth. According to Buhler, Manu 
Smriti in the shape in which it exists now, came into exis- 
tence in the Second Century A.D.' In assigning so recent a 
date to the Manu Smriti Prof. Buhler is not quite alone. 
Mr. Diphtary has also come to the same conclusion. 
According to him Manu Smriti came into being after the 
year 185 B.C. and not before. The reason given by Mr. 
Daphtary ts that Manu Smriti has a close connection with 
the murder of the Buddhist Emperor Brihadratha of the 
Maurya dynasty by his Brahmin Commander-in-Chief 
Pushyamitra Sunga and as even that took place in 185 B.C., 
he concludes that Manu Smriti must have been written after 
185 B.C. To give support to so important a conclusion it is 
necessary to establish a nexus between the murder of Brihad- 
ratha Maurya by Pushyamitra and the writing of Manu Smriti 
hy strong and convincing evidence. Mr. Daphatry has un- 
fortunately omitted to do so. Consequently his conclusion 
appears to hang in the air. The establishment of sucha 

me ee = 

1. Bohler=laws nf Ma ann (S, B. E) Vol. XXV. Int. CXN. 

When did Broken Men become Uutouchables + 147 

nexus is absolutely essential. Fortunately there is no want 
of evidence for the purpose. 

The murder of Brihadratha Maurya by Pushyamitra has 
unfortunately passed unnoticed. At any rate it has not 
received the attention it deserves. It is treated by historians 
as an ordinary incident between two individuals as 
though its origin lay in some personal quariel between the 
two. Having regard to its consequences it was an epoch- 
making event. Its significance cannot be measured by treat- 
ing itasa change of dynasty—the Sungas succeeding the 
Mauryas. It was a political revolution as great as the French 
Revolution, if not greater. It was a revolution—a bloody 
revolution—engineered by the Brahmins to overthrow the 
rule of the Buddhist Kings. That is what the murder of 
Brihadratha by Pushyamitra means. 

This triumphant Brahmanism was in need of many 
things. It of course needed to make Chaturvarna the law of 
the land the validity of which was denied by the Buddhists. 
It needed to make animal sacrifice, which was abolished by 
the Buddhists, legal. But it needed more than this. 
Brahmanism in bringing about this revolution against the 
rule of the Buddhist Kings had transgressed two rules of 
the customary law of the land which were accepted by all! as 
sacrosanct and inviolable, The first rule made it a sin fora 
Brahmin even to touch aweapon. The second made the 
King’s person sacred and regicide a sin. Triumphant 
Brahmanism wanted on a sacred text, infallible in its 
authority, to justify their transgressions. A. striking 
feature of the Manu Smriti is that it not only makes Chatur- 
varna the law of the land: it not only makes animal sacrifice 
legal but it goes to state whena Brahmin could justifiably 
resort to arms and when he could justitiably kill the King. 
In this the Manu Smriti has done what no prior Smriti has 
done. It isacomplete departure. It isa new thesis. Why 
should the Manu Smriti do this? The only answer is it had 
to strengthen the revolutionary deeds committed by Pushya- 
mitra by propounding philosophic justification. This inter- 
connection between Pushya Mitra and the new thesis pro: 
pounded by Manu shows that the Manu Smriti came into 
being some time after 185 B.C., a date not far removed from 
the date assigned by Prof. Buhler. Having got the date of 

148 The Untonchables 

the Manu Smriti we can say that in the Second Century A.D.. 
there was no Untouchability. 

Now to turn to the possibility of determining the lower 
limit to the birth of Untouchability. For this we must go 
to the Chinese travellers who are known to have visited 
India and placed on record what they saw of the modes and 
manners of the Indian people. Of these Chinese travellers 
Fah-Hian has something very interesting to say. He came 
to India in 400 A.D. In the course of his observations 
occurs the following passage’ :— 

“ Southward from this (Mathura) is the so-called 
middle-country (Madhyadesa). The climate of 
this country is warm and equable, without frost or 
snow. The people are very well off, without poll- 
tax or official restrictions. Only those who till 
the royal lands return a portion of profit of the 
land. If they desire to go, they go; if they like to 
stop they stop. The kings govern without cor- 
poral punishment ; criminals are fined, aceording 
to circumstances, lightly or heavily. Even in 
cases of repeated rebe!lion they only cut off the 
right hand. The King’s personal attendants, 
who guard him on the right and left, have fixed 
salaries. Throughout the country the people kill 
no living thing nor drink wine, nor do they eat 
garlic or onion, with the exception of Chandalas 
only. The Chandalas are named ‘evil men’ 
and dwell apart from others; if they enter a 
town or market, they sound a piece of wood in 
order to scparate themselves ; then, men know- 
ing they are, avoid coming in contact with them. 
In this country they do not keep swine nor 
fowls, and do not deal in cattle ; they have no 
shambles or wine-shops in their market-places. 
In selling they use cowrie shells. The Chandalas 
only hunt and sell flesh.” 

Can this passage be taken as evidence of the prevalence 
of Untouchability at the time of Fah-Hian ? Certain parts of 
his description of the treatment given to the Chandalas 

See a re ee ene 

1, Buddhist Records in Western India by Beal. Introduction p. xxxviii. 

When did Breken Men become Untouchables ? 149 

do seem to lend support to the conclusion, that is, a case 

of Untouchability. 

There is, however, one difficulty in the way of 
accepting this conclusion. The difficulty arises because the 
facts relate to the Chandalas. The Chandalas is not a good 
case to determine the existence or non-existence of 
Untouchability. The Brahmins have regarded the 
Chandalas as their hereditary enemies and are prone to 
attribute to them abominable conduct; hurl at them low 
epithets and manufacture towards them a mode of behaviour 
which is utterly artificial to suit their venom against them. 
Whatever, therefore, is said against the Chandalas must be 
taken with considerable reservations. 

This argument is not based on mere _ speculaticn. 
Those who doubt its cogency may consider the evidence of 
Bana’s Kadambari for a_ different description of the 
treatment accorded to the Chandalas. 

The story of Kadambari is a very complex one and 
we are really not concerned with it. It is enough for our 
purpose to note that the story is told to King Shudraka by a 
parrot named Vaishampayana who was the pet of a Chandala 
girl. The following passages from the Kadambari are 
important for our purpose. It is better to begin with Bana’s 
description of a Chandala settlement. It isin the following 
terms! :-— 

“TI beheld the barbarian settlement, a very 
market-place of evil deeds. It was surrounded 
on all sides by boys engaged in the chase, 
unleashing their hounds, teaching their falcons, 
mending snares, carrying weapons, and fishing, 
horrible in their attire, like demoniacs. Here 
and there the entrance to their dwellings, 
hidden by thick bamboo forests, was tobe 
inferred, from the rising of smoke of orpiment. 
On all sides the enclosures were made with 
skulls ; (627) the dust-heaps on the roads were 
filled with bones; the yards of the huts were 
miry with blood, fat, and meat chopped up. 
The life there consisted of hunting ; the food, 

1. Kadambari (Ridding’s Translation) p. 204. 

{50 

It is from such a settlement that the Chandala girl 

The Untouchables 

of flesh: the ointment, of fat; the garments, 
of coarse silk; the couches, of drizd skins ; 
the houszhold attendants, of dogs; the animals 
for riding, of cows; the men’s employment, of 
wine and women; the oblation to the gods, 
of blood; the sacrifice, of cattle. The place 
was the image of all hells.” 

starts with her parrot to the palace of King Shudraka. 

Shudraka is sitting inthe Hall of Audience with his Chiet- 

tains. 
announcement! :— 

of her. 

The King and the Chieftains did not at first take notice 
To attract attention she struck a bamboo on the 
mosaic floor to arouse the King. 

A portress enters the Hall and makes the following 

“Sire, there stands at the gate a Candala 
maiden from thz South, a royal glory of the race 
of that Tricamku who climbed the sky, but fell 
from it at the murder of wrathful Indra. She 
bears a parrot in a cage, and bids me thus hail 
your majesty: “ Sire, thou, like the oce4n, art 
alone worthy to receive the treasures of whole 
earth. In the thought that this bird is a marvel 
and the treasure of the whole earth, I bring it to 
lay at thy feet, and desire to behold thee,” 
Thou, O king, hast heard her message, and must 
decide ! so saying, she ended her speech. The 
king, whose curiosity was aroused, looked at the 
chiets around him, and with the words ‘ Why 
not? Bidher enter’ gave his permission. 
Then the portress, immediately on the king's 
order, ushered in the Candala maiden. And she 
entered.” 

describe her perscnal appearance . 

1 
2. 

eee eat nr 

“ Then the king, with the words, ‘Look yonder’ 
to his suite, gazed steadily upon the Candala 
maiden, as she was pointed out by the portress. 
Before her went a man, whose hair | was hoary 

 Madamilari (Ridding’s Teanalation) 1 p. 6. 
Ibid pp 8-10. 

Bana then proceeds to 

When did Broken Men becc me Untouchables ? 

with age, whose eyes were the colour of the red 
lotus, whose joints, despite the loss of youth, 
were firm from incessant labour, whose form, 
though that of Matanga, was not to be despised, 
and who wore the white raiment meet for a 
court. Behind her went a Candala boy, with 
locks falling on either shoulder, bearing a cage, 
the bars of which, though of gold. shone like 
emerald from the reflection of the parrot’s 
plumage. She herself seemed by the darkness 
of her hue to imitate Krishna when he guile- 
fully assumed a woman’s attire totake away the 
amrita seized by the demons. She was, as it 
were, a doll of sapphire walking alone ; and over 
the blue garment, which reached to her ankle. 
there fell a veil of red silk, like evening sunshine 
falling on blue lotuses. The circle of ker cheek 
was whitened by the ear-ring that hung from 
one ear, like the face of night inlaid withthe 
rays of the rising moon ;she had a tawny tilaka 
of gorocana, as if it were a third eye, like 
Parvati in mountaineer’s attire, after the fashion 
of the garb of Civa. 

She was like Cri, darkened by the sapphire glory 
of Narayana reflected on the tobe on her breast : 
or like Rati, stained by smoke which rose as 
Madana was burnt by the fire of wrathful Civa:; 
or like Yamuna, fleeing in fear of being drawn 
along by the ploughshare of wild Balarama ; or, 
from the rich lac that turned her lotus feet into 
budding shoots, like Durga, with her feet crim- 
soned by the blood of the Asura Mahisha she 
had just trampled upon. 

Her nails were rosy from the pink glow of her 
fingers ; the mosaic pavement seemed too hard 
for her touch, and she came forward, placing her 
feet like tender twigs upon the ground. 

The rays of her anklets, rising in flame-colour, 
seemed to encircle her as with the arms of Agni. 
as though, by his love for her beauty, he would 

16} 

152 

The Untouchables 

purify the stain of her birth, and so set the 
Creator at naught. 

Her girdle was like the stars wreathed on the 
brow of the elephant of Love ; and her necklace 
was a rope of large bright pearls, like the 
stream of Ganga just tinged by Yamuna. 

Like autumn, she opened her lotus eyes; like the 
rainy season, she had cloudy tresses ; like the 
circle of the Malaya Hills, she was wreathed 
with sandal: like the zodiac, she was decked 
with starry gems; like Cri, she had the fairness 
of a lotus in her hand ; like a swoon, she entran- 
ced the heart: like a forest, she was endowed 
with living beauty ; like the child of a goddess, 
she was claimed by no tribe; like sleep, she 
charmed the eyes; as a lotus-poolin a wood is 
troubled by elephants, so was she dimmed by 
her Matanga birth; like spirit, she might not 
be touched ; like a letter, she gladdened the eyes 
alone ; like the blossoms of spring. she lacked the 
jati flower ; her slender waist, like the line of 
Love’s bow, could be spanned by the hands ; with 
her curly hair, she was like the Lakshmi of the 
Yaksha king in Alaka. She had but reached the 
flower of her youth, and was beautiful excced- 
ingly. And the king was amazed; and the 
thought arose in his mind, ‘ Ill-placed was the 
labour of the Creator in producing this beauty ! 
For if she his been created as though in mockery 
of her Candala form, such that all the world’s 
wealth of loveliness is laughed to scorn by her 
own, why was she born in a race with which 
none can mate ? Surely by thought alone did 
Prajapati create her, fearing the penalties of 
contact with the Matanga race, else whence 
this unsullied radiance, a grace that belongs not 
to limbs sullied by touch ? Moreover, though 
fair in form, by the basenness of her birth, 
whereby she, like a Lakshmi of the Jower world, 
Is a perpetual reproach to the gods, she, lovely as 
she is, causes fear in Brahma, the maker of so 

When did Broken Men become Untouchables ? 153 

strange a union. While the king was thus 
thinking ile maiden, garlanded with flowers, 
that fell over her ears, bowed herself before him 
with a confidence beyond her years. And when 
she had made her reverence and stepped on to 
the mosaic floor, her attendant, taking the 
parrot, which had just entered the cage, advanced 
a few steps. and, showing it to the King, said: 
‘ Sire, this parrot, by name Vaicampayana, knows 
the meaning ofall the castras, is expert in the 
practice of royal policy, skilled in tales, history, 
and Puranas, and acquainted with songs and 
with musical intervals. He recites,and himself 
composes graceful and incomparable modern 
romances, love-stories, plays, and poems, and the 
like ; he is versed in witticisms and is an un- 
rivalied disciple of the vina, flute, and drum: 
He is skilled in displaying the different move- 
ments of dancing, dextrous in painting, very 
bold in play, ready in resources to calm a maiden 
angered in a lover's quarrel, and familiar with the 
characteristics of elephants, horses, men, and 
women. He is the gem of the whole earth ; and 
in the thought that treasures belong to thee, as 
pearls to the ocean, the daughter of my lord has 
brought him hither to thy feet, O king ! Let him 
be accepted as thine.’ 

On reading this description of a Chandala girl 
many questions arise. Firstly, how different it is from the 
description given by Fa-Hian ? Secondly Bana is a Vatsyayana 
Brahmin. This Vatsyayana Brahmin, after giving a 
description of the Chandala Settlement, finds no compunction 
in using such eloquent and gorgeous language to describe the 
Chandala girl. Is this description compatible with the 
sentiments of utter scorn and contempt associated 
with Untouchability ? If the Chandalas were Untouchables 
how could an Untouchable girl enter the King’s palace ? 
How could an Untouchable be described in the superb 
terms used by Bana? Far from being degraded, the 
Chandalas cf Bana’s period had Ruling Families among them. 

154 The Untouchables 

For Bana speaks of the Chandala girl as a Chandala princess’. 
Bana wrote some time about 600 A.D. and by 600 A.D. the 
Chandalas had not come to be regarded as Untouchables. 
It is, therefore, quite possible that the conditions described 
by Fa-Hian, though bordering on Untouchability, may not be 
taken as amounting to Untouchability. It may only be 
extreme form of impurity practised by the Brahmins who 
are always in the habit of indulging in overdoing their part 
in sacerdotalism. This becomes more than plausible if we 
remember that when Fa-Hian came to India it was the 
reign of the Gupta Kings. The Gupta Kings were patrons 
of Brahmanism. It was a period of the triumph and revival 
of Brahmanism, It fs quite possible that what Fa-Hian 
describes is not Untouchability but an extremity to which 
the Brahmins were prepared to carry the ceremonial 
impurity which had become attached to some community, 
particularly to the Chandalas. ‘ 

The next Chinese traveller who came into India was Yuan 
Chwang. He came to India in 629 A.D. He _ stayed in 
India for 16 years and has left most accurate records of 
journeys up and down the country and of the manners and 
customs of the people. In the course of his description of 
general characters of the cities and buildings of India, he 
says? :— 

“As to their inhabited towns and cities the 
quadrangular walls of the cities (or accord- 
ing to one text, of the various regicns) are 
broad and high, while the thoroughfares are 
narrow tortuous passages. The shops are on the 
highways and booths, or ‘inns) line the roads. 
Butchers, fishermen, public performers, execu- 
tioners, and scavengers have their habitations 
marked by a distinguishing sign. They are 
torced to live outside the city and they sneak 
along on the left when going about in the 
hamlets.” 

The above passage is too short and too brief for found- 
ing adefinite conclusion thereon. There is. however, one 

1. Kadambari (Ridding’s Translation) p. 204. 
2, Waltera- Yuan Chwang Vol. I. p. 147. 

When did Broken Men become Untouchables ? 1hd 

point about it which is worthy of note. Fa-Rian’s 
description refers to the Chandalas only while the description 
given by Yuan Chwang applies to communities other than 
the Chandalas. This isa point of great importance. No 
such ergument cai be levelled against the acceptance of a 
description siice it applies to comraunities other than the 
Chandalas. It is, therefore, just possible that when Yuan 
Chwang came to India, Untouchability had emerged. 

On the basis of what has been said above we can 
conclude that while Untouchability did not exist in 
200 A.D., it had emerged by 600 A.D. 

These are the two limits, upper and lower, for 
determining tne birth of Untouchability. Can we fix an 
approximate date for the birth of Untouchability ? [ think 
we can, if we take beef-eating, which is the root of 
Untouchability, as the point to-start from. Taking the ban on 
beef-eating as a point to reconnoitre from, it follows that the 
date ot the birth of Untouchability must be intimately 
connected with the ban on cow-killing and on eating beef. 
If we can answer when cow-killing became an offence and 
beef-eating became asin, we can fix an approximate date for 
the birth of Untouchability. 

When did cow-killing become an offence ? 

We know that Manu did not prohibit the eating of 
beef nor did he make cow-killing an offence. When did it 
become an offence? As has been shown by Dr. D R, Bhandar- 
kar, cow killing was made a capital offence by the Gupta 
kings some time in the 4th Century A.D. 

We can, therefore, say with some confidence that 
Untouchability was born some time about 400 A.D. It is 
born out of the struggle for supremacy between Buddhism 
and Brahmanism which has so completely moulded the 
history of India and the stuiiy of which is so woefully 
neglected by students of Indian history. 

THE BND 

INDEX 

Abbe Dubois 75 
Aghnya, definition and meaniny Sb 
Annals of Rajasthan 54 f-n. 
Antyaja 32, 33 
-communities inueluded = i 
term 81. 133, 136 
Antyas 136, 137 
Antyavasin 137 
Apararka 77 
Ashvalavam-Grahya Sutra 91 
Asoka, edicts 95, 9%, 1L0 
Asuras, language of 56 
Atreya Brahmana, directions on 

the animal sacrifice 
100 —i1tO 

the 

in Yajna 

B 

Balakrishna Nair 53 
Bahyas 135 
Bana 149, 152 
Bhandarkar, D. R. 
Beef-eating and 
SU -128, Loo 
Brahmans and Beel-oating 09, 121 
Braht 7 
Broken Men 
—problem of a) 
—amony satrlad tribes” 
—evohttion inte 
qO-S83. 122 
Brihadratha lib — 7 
Buhler 146 

}20 
untouchability 

2--34 
untouchables 

Caldwell 67 
Chandalas 
193, 1bt - 
Chaturvarna 66, t35. 14a 
Jow-lsilling 88, 89,92. 119—121 

138, 145, 14s, 219, 

' 
| 
| 
| 

a 
re a 

D 
Damila and Dann la 58 
Dasas 47 
Dasyus 5 
Dalilement 

— vanses of 1, 4.7, 10-11 
Notional and physteal 3 
Dom 60 f.n. 

Dravidians -51 

ie 
EKeypt & 

ee 

Fah-Hian 148 
Fuidhirs 36, 36 

Gchurey 59 
Goethe- 
on historian’s duty Pref. ve vie 
Goruy. Pref. vin. 
Gotrs and Kula 63, 64 
Greeks ~ 
conception of cases of impurity ¢ 

H 

Hebrews 10 

Hemingsway 75 

Hereditary Untouchables 
—schedule’of 14-20 

Hinas 136 

Holiar 75 

K 

Kadambari 149 

—<description of Chandala settle- 
ment and Chaniala girl 149-153 

INDEX 15 

Kane 

—history of Dharmasastra 81 f.n, 

87,115 f.n. 
Kaopoia 
—purificatory 
Greeks & 
Kielhorn 54 
Kirate 
-~origin and application 54 

ceremony of 

L 

Lichavis 53 
Lustractio pagi 9 

M 
Mahapataka 
—moral sin 120 
Mahapataka 

—Gupta inscriptions on evolu- 
tion into 121 
Mahars 15, 33-34, 60, 64, 126, 128 
Madhuparaka 
—use and composition of 88-89 
Manu 
—on Chandalas 25-26, 139 
—Smriti-date of 146-1417, recog- 
nition of pollution 11, 76, 97, 
110, 11-115, 135, 139 
Mansahari 94 
Mlecha 56 
Mukerjee, R. K. 98 
Mricchakatika 
—scenes depicting hatred of 
Buddhists by Hindus 77-78 
Muir 56 
Mundas 4 

N 

Narada, Smriti 65 

Nagas 47-53 

Newara 53 

New Zealand, untouchability in 8 

O 

Oldham, C. F. 
—on Dravidians 52, 55 

| 

eer 
a ee 

rm ce cr ES 

«] 

Orders-in-Council 
—Schedule of hereditary untou- 
chables in India attached to 
the Government of India Act. 

of 1935, 14-20 

Pp 

Paisachi, language and countries 56 
Panchagavya 13 
Panchasaradiya Seva 

—a kind of sacrifice 88 
Pollution 5-8, 10 

-—territorial and communal 
Prayaschit Mayukha 76 
Pushyamitra Sunga 146 

R 

13 

Rama T'arkavagisa 57 

Rice, Mr Stanley 48 45 
Risley 63 

Roman, notion of pollution 9 

S 

Saivites 94 
Salindra 53 
Sarya 54 
Scavenging, among Aryans 66 
Scheduled Castes, Government of 
India Last, 
- Madras 14-16 
—Bombay 15 
—Bengal 15-16 
—U. P. 16-17 
— Punjab 17 
~-Bihar 17 
—C. P. & Berar 17-19 
—Assam 19 
~ Orissa 20 
Savarnas 145 
Segregation, period and range 7 
Shakabari 94 
es among Aryans 65-68,65 
re ome 
Smith (Vincent) 98, 120 
Societies — 
— Untouchability 
3-10,21-22 
—LEvolution of 29-30 

in primitive 

Los INDEX 
T V 

Tamil castes, aceorling to nasal Vaishnavites 94 
in-lex 61, 62 Vedanta Sutra 116 
Takhya, identification of Jt Vedavyasa Simriti 8t 
lvasdtons order-of Castes 61 Vegetarianism and Brahmins (0) 
Vodas 5 Luu 
Tarde (Gabriel) 99 
Totem 
—Equivallent to (otra in prim. 
societies 63 
Tribes, nomadic and settled 28-29 

U 

WwW 

Walters (Thomas) 118 
Y 

| 

| 

| Yajnavalkya 92 
UTntouchability | Yuan Chwang 115, Lid 
—ocenpational theory 145 | Yupa, its descriptions 1UL 

—racial theory 43-6 £ 

ATA TYTET EH cesta sarraaq weal, Feanrera 
Lal Bahadur Shastri National Academy of Administration, Library 

gt a 
MUSSOORIE. ie a ae 

ae ged faraifea arte ae afta suit gz 

This book is to be returned onthe date last stamped. 

: SATTHAtT ; SATCHAT 
faata at eat feats eY ear 
Date Borrower's Date Borrower's 

No. No. 

er ee 

GL 305.56 
AMB C.1 

COE 
TUTE 
03233 

4 
LBSNAA 

