CASTE MUST GO 

AND 

THE SIN OF UNTOUCHABILITY 

BY 

M. K. GANDHI 

r 

) 

NAVAJIVAN PUBLISHING HOUSE 
AHMED A3AB-14 

HANDBOOKS OF GANDHIAN THOUGHT 

BY MAHATMA GANDHI 

Price 

Postage 

etc. 

Rs.P. 

Rs.P. 

Panchayat Raj 

0.30 

0.13 

Birth-control — The Right Way 

and the Wrong Way 

0.40 

0.13 

The Moral Basis of Vegetarianism 

0.25 

0.13 

The Message of the Gita 

0.25 

0.13 

Non-violent Way to World Peace 

0.35 

0.13 

Woman’s Role in Society 

0.25 

0.13 

Communism and Communists 

0.20 

0.13 

My Socialism 

0.35 

0.13 

What Jesus Means to Me 

0.35 

0.13 

Co-operative Farming 

0.20 

0.13 

Bread Labour 

0.25 

0.13 

Village Industries 

0.25 

0.13 

Trusteeship 

0.25 

0.13 

India’s Food Problem 

0.40 

0.13 

The New Indian States 

0.25 

0; 1 3 

Prohibition at Any Cost 

0.20 

0.13 

Congress and Its Future 

0.40 

0.13 

Strikes 

0.30 

0.13 

The Task Before Indian Students 

' 0.75 

0.13 

Voluntary Poverty v- 

0.25 

0.13 

The Gospel of Renunciation 

0.35 

0.13 

Character and Nation Building 

0.40 

0.15 

Discourses on the Gita 

0.50 

0.20 

Democracy: Real and Deceptive 

0.80 

0.20 

V arnashramadharma 

0.50 

0.20 

My God 

0.50 

0.15 

CASTE MUST GO 

AND 

THE SIN OF UNTOUCHABILITY 

BY 

Ms K. GANDHI 

Compiled by 
R. K. PRABHU 

NAVAJIVAN PUBLISHING HOUSE 
AHMED AB AD-14 

First Edition , 3,000 Copies , September , 1964 

Rs. 1.50 

© Navajivan Trust , 1964 

Printed and Published by Jivanji Dahyabhai Desai 
Navajivan Press, Ahmedabad-14 

CONTENTS 

Chapter Page 

CASTE MUST GO 

1 CASTE MUST GO . . .3 

2 CASTE HAS NOTHING TO DO WITH RELIGION . 10 

3 RELIGION DEGRADED . . .12 

4 THE FOUR CASTES . . . .15 

5 NOT MERELY BY BIRTH . . .17 

THE SIN OF UNTOU CHABILIT Y 

1 THE GREATEST BLOT ON HINDUISM . .21 

2 UNTOUCH ABILITY IN HINDUISM . . 25 

3 NO SANCTION FOR UNTOU CH ABILITY . 27 

4 THE CANKER OF SUPERIORITY . .31 

5 THE CRIME OF CASTE . . .33 

6 ANTI-UNTOU CHABILITY - A MOVEMENT OF SELF¬ 

PURIFICATION . . . .35 

7 TOWARDS BROTHERHOOD OF MAN . . 38 

8 CONVERSION NO REMEDY . . .42 

9 TEMPLE-ENTRY FOR UNTOUCHABLES . . 45 

10 TEMPLE-ENTRY VS. ECONOMIC UPLIFT . 48 

11 TEMPLES FOR UNTOUCHABLES . . 50 

12 TO SANATANISTS . . . .52 

13 TO CASTE HINDUS . . . .55 

« 

14 TO ‘UNTOUCHABLES’ . . .58 

15 SOME PERTINENT QUESTIONS . . .60 

16 WHY HARIJAN? . . . .65 

17 HARIJAN V . NON-HARIJAN . . ,66 

18 SEPARATE ELECTORATES FOR UNTOUCHABLESj 69 

• • • 

111 

N 

19 UNTOUCHABILITY AND INTER-DINING . .71 

20 UNTOUCHABILITY AND INTER-MARRIAGE . 73 

21 WHO WILL SCAVENGE? . . .75 

22 THE IDEAL BHANGI . . . .76 

23 DISPOSAL OF CARCASSES . . .79 

24 DUTY OF INDIAN MUNICIPALITIES . . 82 

25 HARIJAN EDUCATION . . .85 

26 HARIJAN WELFARE WORK . . .87 

27 REPLIES TO AN ORTHODOX HINDU LEADER’S 

QUESTIONNAIRE . . . .92 

CASTE MUST GO 

TO THE READER 

I would like to say to the diligent reader of my 
writings and to others who are interested in them 
that I am not at all concerned with appearing to be 
consistent. In my search after Truth I have discarded 
many ideas and learnt many new things. Old as I am 
in age, I have no feeling that I have ceased to grow 
inwardly or that my growth will stop at the dissolu¬ 
tion of the flesh. What I am concerned with is my 
readiness to obey the call of Truth, my God, from 
moment to moment, and, therefore, when anybody 
finds any inconsistency between any two writings of 
mine, if he has still faith in my sanity, he would do 
well to choose the later of the two on the same subject. 

M. K. Gandhi 

Harijan, 29-4-1933, p. 2 

CHAPTER 1 

CASTE MUST GO 

I 

I gladly publish Sir Govindrao Madgavkar’s 
open letter.* My own position has been often stated 
in these columns. It may be summed up as follows: 

1. I believe in Varnashrama of the Vedas which, 
in my opinion, is based on absolute equality of status, 
notwithstanding passages to the contrary in the 
Smritis and elsewhere. 

2. Every word of the printed works passing mus¬ 
ter as Shastras is not, in my opinion, a revelation. 

3. The interpretation of accepted texts has 
undergone evolution and is capable of indefinite evo¬ 
lution, even as the human intellect and heart are. 

4. Nothing in the Shastras which is manifestly 
contrary to universal truths and morals can stand. 

5. Nothing in the Shastras which is capable of 
being reasoned can stand if it is in conflict with reason. 

6. Varnashrama of the Shastras is today non¬ 
existent in practice, 

7. The present caste system is the very anti¬ 
thesis of Varnashrama. The sooner public opinion 
abolishes it the better. 

3. In Varnashrama there was and should be 
no prohibition of intermarriage or interdining. 

*The letter is given at the end of this article 

3 

4 

CASTE MUST GO 

Prohibition there is of change of one’s hereditary 
occupation for purposes of gain. The existing practice is 
therefore doubly wrong in that it has set up cruel 
restrictions about interdining and intermarriage and 
tolerates anarchy about choice of occupation. 

9. Though there is in Varnashrama no prohibi¬ 
tion against intermarriage and interdining, there can 
be no compulsion. It must be left to the unfettered 
choice of the individual as to where he or she will 
marry or dine. If the law of Varnashrama was observ¬ 
ed, there would naturally be a tendency, so far as 
marriage is concerned, for people to restrict the mari¬ 
tal relations to their own Varna. 

10. As I have repeatedly said there is no such 
thing as untouchability by birth in the Shastras. I 
hold the present practice to be a sin and the greatest 
blot on Hinduism. I feel more than ever that if un¬ 
touchability lives, Hinduism dies. 

11. The most effective, quickest and the 
most unobtrusive way to destroy caste is for refor¬ 
mers to begin the practice with themselves and, where 
necessary, take the consequences of social boycott. 
The reform will not come by reviling the orthodox. 
The change will be gradual and imperceptible. The 
so-called higher classes will have to descend from their 
pedestal before they can make any impression upon 
the so-called lower classes. Day-to-day experience of 
village work shows how difficult the task is of bridging 
the gulf that exists between the city-dwellers and 
the villagers, the higher classes and the lower classes. 
The two are not synonymous terms. For the class dis¬ 
tinction exists both in the cities and the villages. 

CASTE MUST GO 

5 

SIR G. MADGAVKAR’S OPEN LETTER 
TO MAHATMA GANDHI 

To The Editor, Harijan 
Sir, 

The recent announcement of Dr. Ambedkar that he will not 
die a Hindu has caused a flutter in the dovecots. Whether he 
emerges a President of the Mahasabha or a convert to some other 
creed is a matter in which the average Hindu has no say and may 
not hazard opinion or counsel. He may at the most regret, under¬ 
standing and sympathizing with his attitude of revolt and bitter¬ 
ness, yet certain and thankful that Hinduism will survive and 
might even, from some points of view, gain by his secession. 

From the days of Ram Mohan Roy and Dayananda Saras- 
wati liberal and far-sighted Hindu leaders on this side such as 
Bhandarkar, Ranade and Gokhale have been inviting the atten¬ 
tion of Hindus to the weaknesses of the caste system, of which 
untouchability is an extreme form, and have been pressing us to 
set our own house in order. The various Samajas and Missions 
such as the Depressed Glasses Mission in Poona and now the 
Harijan Movement of Mahatma Gandhi have been doing their 
best. But Rome was not built in a day. We are dealing with an 
institution centuries old with a conservative, superstitious and vast 
community, illiterate as far as the women and the masses are 
concerned. The attitude of Government was in theory a bene¬ 
volent, in practice, a futile neutrality. And with the increased po¬ 
verty and struggle for existence and competition for posts under 
Government, the administrative and statutory recognition of the 
backward castes, combined with separate electorates, has ren¬ 
dered the work of the social reformer ever more difficult than 
before. 

In a recent address in London Sir Stanley Reed — like Go¬ 
khale and others before him — suggested ‘Too late” as an appro¬ 
priate motto for the British Government in India in regard to 

6 

CASTE MUST GO 

political reforms. As one of the oldest members of the Presidency 
Social Reform Association, I fear I must make the same admis¬ 
sion in regard to the attitude of us Hindus to social reform. We 
refuse to face the question fairly and squarely. We shirk to give a 
plain answer and to act upon it. We take refuge in phrases and 
quibbles and subtleties, which serve to exasperate rather than to 
solve. An outburst, and we act like frightened sheep — an un¬ 
edifying and a humiliating attitude for any self-respecting com¬ 
munity. And we have even less excuse than our rulers, since no 
material interests are involved but, at the most, empty pride. In 
one very real sense, economically and politically, we are all of us 
equally depressed. But the poorer and the weaker we grow, the 
more we display, failing aught else, pride of caste. 

The plain issue before us Hindus is, I submit, whether today 
we are or are not in favour of social intercourse and above all, 
of intermarriage between all castes of Hindus, including the un¬ 
touchables. On this vital question only one of two positions is con¬ 
sistent and possible. One position is to accept caste as a divine 
and a sacrosanct institution, above and beyond the pale of worldly 
considerations. And no benefits, whether eugenic or social, eco¬ 
nomic or political, from intermarriage can be allowed to affect 
the maintenance and the permanence of caste. As in the theory of 
Hindu Law, orthodoxy may concede that only four castes and the 
untouchables should exist. But since it is impossible in practice 
to go back to these five only, the concession is more apparent 
than real and somewhat on a par with Mr. Winston Churchill’s 
ingenious distinction between Dominion Status with, and one 
without, power or functions or Sir Malcolm Hailey’s between 
Self-government and Responsible Government. 

This is in fact the Sanatanist position and answer. It ignores 
the fact pointed out by scholars, such as Bhandarkar, that the most 
ancient Vedas give no countenance to untouchability and allow 
intermarriage between castes which were a later growth. It 
overlooks the fact that, whatever its origin, today caste does not 

CASTE MUST GO 

7 

correspond and is not related with economic realities such as 
division of labour or, in some cases, even with real culture and 
caste-marks on the forehead might show the sanctimonious 
Pharisee. They are no evidence of the qualities with which, ac¬ 
cording to a verse in the Bhagavadgita possibly interpolated, the 
four castes were created, any more than the voluminous turban 
is evidence of the Kshatriya and his valour. 

The other position is that of the social reformer, who is not 
ashamed either of the name or his convictions and of their logical 
consequence. Whatever its origin and its growth, caste is a human 
institution which has existed in other countries and has been modi¬ 
fied by human agency, conscious and unconscious. In India, on 
the contrary, it has grown to monstrous dimensions, undreamt of 
elsewhere. It divides and weakens Hindus and, like a cancerous 
growth, absorbs all the vital forces to itself at the expense of the 
community. 

The Joint Select Parliamentary Committee has, and with 
some justice, characterized caste as “inconsistent with democratic 
principles”. But even coday the public utterances of leading Hin¬ 
dus on this point are not quite clear any more than the attitude 
of the Congress or the Mahasabha. I do not belong to either 
organization and have no pretensions to lead. But I am and 
have been clear in favour of intermarriage. As to untouchability, 
in 1932 when I presided at a public meeting of the Gaud Saraswat 
Brahmanas of Bombay, which, with only two dissentients and by a 
majority of nearly 1,200, carried a resolution in favour of throwing 
open the caste temples to Harijans, I observed: “I cannot con¬ 
ceive how God can impose upon the Hindu community so absurd 
and suicidal a law that an untouchable so remains only as long 
as he remains a Hindu, but becomes touchable the moment he 
leaves the Plindu fold.” And in January 1935 at the annual 
meeting of the Hindu Law Reform Association I said: “The real 
question we have to face is whether we are or are not prepared 
to throw caste overboard and purge ourselves of its spirit as a 

8 

CASTE MUST GO 

disease, which weakens, has ruined and will kill, or whether we 
shall continue to believe that it is a holy and a healthy institu¬ 
tion, cherishing it and taking it to our bosom. Is it wise or 
consistent or just for the Maratha to abuse the Brahmana and then 
to assault the untouchable for pretence to equality? Granting 
that caste will not disappear in a day, its practical extinction and 
the speed with which it will die rest with ourselves.” Other coun¬ 
tries and communities exist and have progressed without caste 
and so can Hindus. The Heavens will not fall with it. 

For the root evil, the appalling poverty whether of the 
cultivator or of the untouchable, the solutions must be economic 
and political. But equality in the sight of the law already exists. 
Equal opportunity of education in schools, maintained by public 
funds, can and should be conceded, whatever the objections of the 
orthodox. But even here and in regard to the use of wells, the 
prejudice and resistance exist mainly in the villages and on the 
part of non-Brahmanas, such as Patidars in Gujarat, Marathas in 
Maharashtra and Lingayats in Karnatak. And as a police force 
in each village to enforce equality is not practical, the only alter¬ 
native just at present would appear to be that the touchables 
in any village who object to the use of their wells by the un¬ 
touchables, should be made by law to provide for a proper sepa¬ 
rate well for the untouchables. And as to temple entry, I would 
suggest, in the case of public temples, early legislation, throwing 
them open to all Hindus including untouchables on a perfect 
footing of equality, over-riding any custom or trust, express or 
implied, prohibiting any section of Hindus from entry to the main 
building as distinguished from the inner shrine, reserved for the 
worshipping priest. 

But I must also point out that the untouchables, not less 
than the non-Brahmanas and Brahmanas are, like all Hindus, tarred 
with the same brush and observe caste as rigorously among them¬ 
selves, as, for instance, the Dheds and the Bhangis in Gujarat, 
and the Mahars, the Ghamars and the Mangs in Maharashtra. 

CASTE MUST GO 

9 

The question for the untouchables is, therefore, the same, and 
it behoves their leaders, while pressing for equality, not merely 
to abuse the caste Hindus but also to encourage intermarriage 
and social reform among themselves. Lastly, I would remark 
that legislation may forbid or permit but cannot impose social 
intercourse or intermarriage. These must grow out of equal stan¬ 
dards, culture and sympathy and work in common ideals, rather 
than from abuse or political motives. 

I would appeal to Hindu leaders such as Mahatma Gandhi, 
Pandit Malaviya, Mr. N. G. Kelkar, Mr. B. V. Jadhav and the 
Hon. Dewan Bahadur Kambli to give us a clear and a coura¬ 
geous lead on this vital question. It is with the hope of eliciting 
such a lead that I am trespassing on your space. 

I am etc., 

G. D. Madgavkar 

Koregaon Park, Poona, 

November 5, 1935 
Harijan , 16-11-1935, pp. 316-18 

II 

The views expressed by me in the article 4 ‘Caste 
Must Go” have been often expressed in these columns 
though under different headings. Moreover, the 
article does not deal with the relations between 
caste Hindus and Harijan Hindus. It deals with re¬ 
form only among castemen or Savarnas. When un- 
touchability goes, ‘untouchables’ will occupy precisely 
the same position as castemen. And whatever rule or 
custom then governs castemen will govern Harijans 
who are no longer Harijans. If, therefore, caste remains 
as it is now, there will be no intermarriage and no 
interdining between Harijans and castemen. But if 
caste goes in its present form, as it will some day, 
there will most undoubtedly be intermarriage and 

10 

CASTE MUST GO 

interdining between Harijans and castemen as there 
will be between castemen and castemen. And if Varna 
remains, as I hope it will, occupations will be res¬ 
tricted as they were in the past, intermarriage and 
interdining will not be restricted even as they were 
not in the past. Whatever happens, it will happen 
not because of the activity of the Harijan Sevak Sangh 
as a body, but because of other forces which the 
Sangh can neither regulate nor control. Its members 
as individuals will no doubt take their due share in 
moulding those forces according to their predilections. 

Harijan , 30-11-1935, p. 332 

CHAPTER 2 

CASTE HAS NOTHING TO DO 
WITH RELIGION 

Caste has nothing to do with religion. It is a 
custom whose origin I do not know and do not need to 
know for the satisfaction of my spiritual hunger. But 
I do know that it is harmful both to spiritual and 
national growth. Varna and Ashrama are institu¬ 
tions which have nothing to do with castes. The law 
of Varna teaches us that we have, each one of us, to 
earn our bread by following the ancestral calling. It 
defines not our rights but our duties. It necessarily 
has reference to callings that are conducive to the wel¬ 
fare of humanity and to no other. It also follows that 
there is no calling too low and none too high. All 
are good, lawful, and absolutely equal in status. The 
callings of a Brahmana — -spiritual teacher — and a 
scavenger are equal, and their due performance carries 

CASTE HAS NOTHING TO DO WITH RELIGION 1 1 

equal merit before God and at one time seems to have 
carried identical reward before man. Both were 
entitled to their livelihood and no more. Indeed 
one traces even now in the villages the faint lines of 
this healthy operation of the law. Living in Segaon 
with its population of 600, I do not find a great dis¬ 
parity between the earnings of different tradesmen 
including Brahmanas. I find too that real Brahmanas 
are to be found even in these degenerate days who are 
living on alms freely given to them and are giving 
freely of what they have of spiritual treasures. It would 
be wrong and improper to judge the law of Varna by 
its caricature in the lives of men who profess to belong 
to a Varna whilst they openly commit a breach of its 
only operative rule. Arrogation of a superior status 
by any of the Varna over another is a denial of the 
law. And there is nothing in the law of Varna to 
warrant a belief in untouchability. (The essence of 
Hinduism is contained in its enunciation of one and 
only God as Truth and its bold acceptance of Ahimsa 
as the law of the human family.) 

I am aware that my interpretation of Hinduism 
will be disputed by many besides Dr. Ambedkar. 
That does not affect my position. It is an interpreta¬ 
tion by which I have lived for nearly half a century 
and according to which I have endeavoured to the 
best of my ability to regulate my life. 

In my opinion the profound mistake that Dr. 
Ambedkar has made in his address is to pick out the 
texts of doubtful authenticity and value, and the state 
of degraded Hindus who are no fit specimens of the faith 
they so woefully misrepresent. Judged by the standard 
applied by Dr. Ambedkar, every known living faith 
will probably fail. 

12 

CASTE MUST GO 

In his able address, the learned Doctor has over¬ 
proved his case. Can a religion that was professed 
by Chaitanya, Jnanadeva, Tukaram, Tiruvalluvar, 
Ramakrishna Paramahamsa, Raja Ram Mohan Roy, 
Maharshi Devendranath Tagore, Vivekananda and a 
host of others who might be easily mentioned, be so 
utterly devoid of merit as is made out in Dr. Ambed- 
kar’s address? A religion has to be judged not by its 
worst specimens but by the best it might have pro¬ 
duced. For that and that alone can be used as the 
standard to aspire to, if not to improve upon. 

Harijan, 18-7-1936, p. 180 

CHAPTER 3 

RELIGION DEGRADED 

It is not caste that has made us what we are. It 
was our greed and disregard of essential virtues which 
enslaved us. I believe that caste has saved Hinduism 
from disintegration. But like every other institution 
it has suffered from excrescences. I consider the four 
divisions alone to be fundamental, natural and essen¬ 
tial. The innumerable sub-castes are sometimes a 
convenience, often a hindrance. The sooner there is 
fusion the better. The silent destruction and re¬ 
construction of sub-castes have ever gone on and are 
bound to continue. Social pressure and public 
opinion can be trusted to deal with the problem. But 
I am certainly against any attempt at destroying the 
fundamental divisions. The caste system is not based 
on inequality, there is no question of inferiority, and 
so far as there is any such question arising, the ten¬ 
dency should undoubtedly be checked. But there 

RELIGION DEGRADED 

13 

appears to be no valid reason for ending the system 
because of its abuse. It lends itself easily to reforma¬ 
tion. The spirit of democracy, which is fast spreading 
throughout India and the rest of the world, will, 
without a shadow of doubt, purge the institution of 
the idea of predominance and subordination. The 
spirit of democracy is not a mechanical thing to be 
adjusted by abolition of forms. It requires change of 
the heart. If caste is a bar to the spread of that spirit 
the existence of five religions in India — Hinduism, 
Islam, Christianity, Zoroastrianism and Judaism — 
is equally a bar. 

The spirit of democracy requires the inculcation 
of the spirit of brotherhood, and I can find no diffi¬ 
culty in considering a Christian or a Mahomedan to 
be my brother in absolutely the same sense as a blood 
brother, and Hinduism that is responsible for the 
doctrine of the caste is also responsible for the incul¬ 
cation of the essential brotherhood, not merely of man 
but even of all that lives. 

Toung India, 8-12-1920, p. 3 

From the economic point of view, its value was 
once very great. It ensured hereditary skill ; it limited 
competition. It was the best remedy against pau¬ 
perism. And it had all the advantages of trade guilds. 
Although it did not foster adventure or invention there, 
it is not known to have come in the way either. 

Historically speaking, caste may be regarded as 
man’s experiment or social adjustment in the labora¬ 
tory of Indian society. If we can prove it to be a 
success, it can be offered to the world as a leaven and 
as the best remedy against heartless competition and 
social disintegration born of avarice and greed. 

Toung India, 5-1-1921, p. 2 

14 

CASTE MUST GO 

In the name of religion we Hindus have made a 
fetish of outward observances, and have degraded 
religion by making it simply a question of eating and 
drinking. Brahmanism owes its unrivalled position 
to its self-abnegation, its inward purity, its severe 
austerity, all these illumined by knowledge. Hindus 
are doomed if they attach undue importance to the 
spiritual effects of foods and human contacts. Placed 
as we are in the midst of trials and temptations from 
within, and touched and polluted as we are by the 
most untouchable and the vilest thought currents, 
let us not, in our arrogance, exaggerate the influence 
of contact with people whom we often ignorantly and 
more often arrogantly consider to be our inferiors. 
Before the Throne of the Almighty we shall be judged, 
not by what we have eaten nor by whom we have been 
touched, but by whom we have served and how. 
Inasmuch as we serve a single human being in distress, 
we shall find favour in the sight of God. Bad and sti¬ 
mulating or dirty foods we must avoid as we must 
avoid bad contact. But let us not give these obser¬ 
vances a place out of all proportion to their importance. 
We dare not use abstinence from certain foods as a 
cover for fraud, hypocrisy and worst vices. We dare 
not refuse to serve a fallen or a dirty brother lest his 
contact should injure our spiritual growth. 

Young India , 5-1-1922, p. 3 

Untouchability is the product, not of the caste 
system, but of the distinction of high and low that has 
crept into Hinduism and is corroding it. The attack 
on untouchability is thus an attack upon this ‘high- 
and-low’ness. The moment untouchability goes, the 
caste system itself will be purified, that is to say, 

THE FOUR CASTES 

15 

according to my dream, it will resolve itself into the true 
Varnadharma, the four divisions of society, each 
complementary of the other and none inferior or 
superior to any other, each as necessary for the whole 
body of Hinduism as any other. 

Harijan, 11-2-1933, p. 3 

CHAPTER 4 

THE FOUR CASTES 

Q : You regard the four divisions of castes as 
based on birth. You also believe that a man’s caste 
does not prevent him from doing the duties attaching 
to other castes, and that any man irrespective of his 
birth may have the qualities of a Brahmana or a 
Kshatriya or a Shudra. If this is the case, where is 
the use of maintaining this division, and consequently 
an order of superiority and inferiority? Why should 
the accident of birth make a man a Brahamana, or a 
Kshatriya or a Shudra? Why attach so much im¬ 
portance to birth? 

A : In accepting the fourfold division, I am simply 
accepting the laws of Nature, taking for granted what 
is inherent in human nature, and the law of heredity. 
We are born with some of the traits of our parents. 
The fact that a human being is born only in the human 
species shows that some characteristic, i.e. caste is 
determined by birth. There is scope enough for free¬ 
dom of the will inasmuch as we can to a certain extent 
reform some of our inherited characteristics. It is 
not possible in one birth entirely to undo the results 

16 

CASTE MUST GO 

of our past doings, and, in the light of it, it is in every 
way right and proper to regard him as a Brahmana 
who is born of Brahmana parents. A Brahmana 
may, by doing the deeds of a Shudra, become a Shudra 
in this very birth, but the world loses nothing in con¬ 
tinuing to treat him as a Brahmana. Caste as it exists 
today is no doubt a travesty of the original fourfold 
division which only defined men’s different callings. 
And this trifling with it has been its undoing. But 
how can I, for that reason, discard the law of Nature 
which I see being fulfilled at every step? I know 
that if I discard it, I would be rid of a lot of trouble. 
But that would be an idle short cut. I have declared 
from the housetops that a man’s caste is no matter for 
pride, that no superiority attaches to any of the four 
divisions. A true Brahmana will feel it an honour to 
serve the lowliest of Shudras. In fact a Brahmana, to 
be a Brahmana, should have the qualities of a Kshat- 
riya, a Vaishya and a Shudra plus his own. Only he 
should predominantly be a man of divine knowledge. 
But caste today is in the crucible and only Heaven 
knows, or perhaps the Brahmanas know, the final 
result. 

Young India, 21-1-1926, p. 30 

CHAPTER 5 

NOT MERELY BY BIRTH 

The following three verses from Madame Wadia’s 
instructive address delivered the other day will bear 
reproduction : 

“Listen to these words of Yudhishthira in the Vana- 
parva of the Mahabharata: 

‘Truth, charity, forgiveness, good conduct, gentleness, 
austerity and mercy, where these are seen, O King of the 
Serpents, there is a Brahmana. If these marks exist in a 
Shudra and are not in a Dvija, the Shudra is not a Shudra, 
nor the Brahmana a Brahmana.’ 

And in the Vishnu-Bhagavata we read: 

‘What is said as to the marks of conduct indicative of a 
man’s caste, if those marks are found in another, desig¬ 
nate him by the caste of his marks’ (i.e. not of his body and 
birth). 

But some of you would prefer Manusmriti. Well, here 
you are: 

‘As a wooden elephant, as a leathern deer, such is an un¬ 
learned Brahmana; these three bear only names. The Brah¬ 
mana, who, not having studied Vedas, labours elsewhere, 
becomes a Shudra in that very life together with his 
descendants.’ ” 

These and numerous other verses from the Shastras 
unmistakably show that mere birth counts for nothing. 
A personjmust show corresponding works and character 
to establish his claim by birth. 

Harijan , 15-4-1933, p. 2 

Birth and observance of forms cannot determine 
one’s superiority or inferiority. Character is the only 

17 

1 

CASTE MUST GO 

determining factor. God did not create men with the 
badge of superiority or inferiority, and no scripture 
which labels a human being as inferior or untouchable 
because of his or her birth can command our allegiance, 
it is a denial of God and Truth which is God. 

Harijan, 31-8-1934, p. 225 

In the purest type of Hinduism a Brahmana, an 
ant, an elephant and a dog-eater (Shvapacha) are of the 
same status. And because our philosophy is so high, 
and we have failed to live up to it, that very philosophy 
today stinks in our nostrils. Hinduism insists on the 
brotherhood not only of all mankind but of all that 
lives. It is a conception which makes one giddy, 
but we have to work up to it. The moment we have 
restored real living equality between man and man, 
we shall be able to establish equality between man and 
the whole creation. When that day comes we shall 
have peace on earth and good-will to men. 

Harijan, 28-3-1936, p. 51 

THE SIN OF UNTOUCHABILITY 

* 

• 

' 

CHAPTER 1 

THE GREATEST BLOT ON HINDUISM 

I regard untouchability as the greatest blot on 
Hinduism. This idea was not brought home to me 
by my bitter experiences during the South African 
struggle. It is not due to the fact that I was once an 
agnostic. It is equally wrong to think, as some people 
do, that I have taken my views from my study of Chri¬ 
stian religious literature. These views date as far back 
as the time when I was neither enamoured of, nor was 
acquainted with, the Bible or the followers of the Bible. 

I was hardly yet twelve when this idea had dawned 
on me. A scavenger name Uka, an untouchable, used 
to attend our house for cleaning latrines. Often I 
would ask my mother why it was wrong to touch him, 
why I was forbidden to touch him. If I accidentally 
touched Uka, I was asked to perform the ablutions, 
and though I naturally obeyed, it was not without 
smilingly protesting that untouchability was not sanc¬ 
tioned by religion, that it was impossible that it should 
be so. I was a very dutiful and obedient child and so 
far as it was consistent with respect for parents, I 
often had tussles with them on this matter. I told my 
mother that she was entirely wrong in considering 
physical contact with Uka as sinful. 

While at school I would often happen to touch 
the untouchables, and as I never would conceal the 
fact from my parents, my mother would tell me that 
the shortest cut to purification after the unholy touch 
was to cancel the touch by touching any Musalman 
passing by. And simply out of reverence and regard 

21 

22 

THE SIN OF UNTOUGHABILITY 

for my mother I often did so, but never did so, be¬ 
lieving it to be a religious obligation. After some time 
we shifted to Porbandar, where I made my first ac¬ 
quaintance with Sanskrit. I was not yet put to 
English school, and my brother and I were placed in 
charge of a Brahmana who taught us Ramraksha and 
Vishnu Pooja. The texts Jale Vishnuh , Sthale Vishnuh — 
there is the Lord (present) in water, there is the Lord 
(present) in earth — have never gone out of my memory. 
A motherly old dame used to live close by. Now it 
happened that I was very timid then, and would con¬ 
jure up ghosts and goblins whenever the lights went 
out, and it was dark. The old mother, to disabuse me 
of fears, suggested that I should mutter the Rama- 
raksha texts whenever I was afraid, and all evil spirits 
would fly away. This I did and, as I thought, with 
good effect. I could never believe then that there 
was any text in the Ramaraksha pointing to the con¬ 
tact of the untouchables as a sin. I did not understand 
its meaning then, or understood it very imperfectly. 
But I was confident that Ramaraksha, which could 
destroy all fear of ghosts, could not be countenancing 
any such thing as fear of contact with the untouchables. 

The Ramayana used to be regularly read in our 
family. A Brahmana called Ladha Maharaj used to 
read it. He was stricken with leprosy, and he was 
confident that a regular reading of the Ramayana would 
cure him of leprosy, and, indeed, he was cured of it. 
“Plow can the Ramayana,” I thought to myself, “in 
which one is regarded nowadays as an untouchable 
took Rama across the Ganga in his boat, countenance 
the idea of any human beings being untouchable on 
the ground that they were polluted souls?” The fact 
that we addressed God as the “purifier of the polluted” 

THE GREATEST BLOT ON HINDUISM 23 

and by similar appellations, shows that it is a sin to 
regard any one born in Hinduism as polluted or un¬ 
touchable — that it is satanic to do so. I have hence 
been never tired of repeating that it is a great sin. I 
do not pretend that this thing had crystallized as a 
conviction in me at the age of twelve, but I do say 
that I did then regard untouchability as a sin. I 
narrate this story for the information of the Vaishnavas 
and orthodox Hindus. 

I have always claimed to be a Sanatani Hindu. 
It is not that I am quite innocent of the scriptures. I 
am not a profound scholar of Sanskrit. I have read 
the Vedas and the Upanishads only in translations. 
Naturally, therefore, mine is not a scholarly study of 
them. My knowledge of them is in no way profound, 
but I have studied them as I should do as a Hindu 
and I claim to have grasped their true spirit. By the 
time I had reached the age of 21, I had studied other 
religions also. 

There was a time when I was wavering between 
Hinduism and Christianity. When I recovered my 
balance of mind, I felt that to me salvation was possible 
only through the Hindu religion and my faith in Hin¬ 
duism grew deeper and more enlightened. 

But even then I believed that untouchability was 
no part of Hinduism; and that, if it was, such Hinduism 
was not for me. 

True Hinduism does not regard untouchability as 
a sin. I do not want to enter into any controversy 
regarding the interpretation of the Shastras. It might 
be difficult for me to establish my point by quoting 
authorities from the Bhagavata or Manusmriti. But 
I claim to have understood the spirit of Hinduism. 

24 

THE SIN OF UNTOU CH ABILITY 

Hinduism has sinned in giving sanction to untoucha- 
bility. It has degraded us, made us the pariahs of 
the Empire. Even the Musalmans caught the sinful 
contagion from us ; and in South Africa, in East Africa 
and in Canada, Musalmans no less than Hindus came 
to be regarded as pariahs. All this evil has resulted 
from the sin of untouchability. 

I may here recall my proposition, which is this: 
So long as the Hindus wilfully regard untouchability as 
part of their religion, so long as the mass of Hindus 
consider it a sin to touch a section of their brethren, 
Swaraj is impossible of attainment. Yudhishthira 
would not enter heaven without his dog. How can, 
then, the descendants of that Yudhishthira expect to 
obtain Swaraj without the untouchables ? What 
crimes, for which we condemn the Government as 
satanic, have not we been guilty of towards our 
untouchable brethren? 

• We are guilty of having suppressed our brethren; 
we make them crawl on their bellies; we have made 
them rub their noses on the ground; with eyes red 
with rage, we push them out of railway compartments — 
what more than this has British rule done? What 
charge, that we bring against Dyer and O’Dwyer, 
may not others, and even our own people, lay at our 
doors ? We ought to purge ourselves of this pollution. 
It is idle to talk of Swaraj so long as we do not protect 
the weak and the helpless, or so long as it is possible 
for a single Swarajist to injure the feelings of any in¬ 
dividual. Swaraj means that not a single Hindu or 
Muslim shall for a moment arrogantly think that he 
can crush with impunity meek Hindus or Muslims. 
Unless this condition is fulfilled, we will gain Swaraj 
only to lose it the next moment. We are no better 

UNTOUCH ABILITY IN HINDUISM 

25 

than the brutes until we have purged ourselves of the 
sins we have committed against our weaker brethren. 

From a speech at Suppressed Classes Conference held at 
Ahmedabad, on April 13, 1921 

Young India , 27-4-1921, p. 135 

CHAPTER 2 

UNTOUCHABILITY IN HINDUISM 

Untouchability is the sin of the Hindus. They 
must suffer for it, they must purify themselves, they 
must pay the debt they owe to their suppressed brothers 
and sisters. Theirs is the shame and theirs must be the 
glory when they have purged themselves of the black 
sin. The silent loving suffering of one single pure 
Hindu as such will be enough to melt the hearts of 
millions of Hindus ; but the sufferings of thousands of 
non-Hindus on behalf of the untouchables will leave 
the Hindus unmoved. Their blind eyes will not be 
opened by outside interference, however well-inten¬ 
tioned and generous it may be; for it will not bring 
home to them the sense of guilt. On the contrary, 
they would probably hug the sin all the more for such 
interference. All reform to be sincere and lasting must 
come from within. 

Young India , 1-5-1924, p. 144 

Let me make my position absolutely clear. While 
I do" hold that the institution of untouchability as it 
stands today has no sanction in Hinduism, Hinduism 
does recognize untouchability in a limited sense and 
under certain circumstances. For instance, every 
time that my mother handled unclean things she 

26 

THE SIN OF UNTOU GH ABILITY 

became untouchable for the time being and had to 
cleanse herself by bathing. As a Vaishnava I refuse 
to believe that anyone can be regarded untouchable 
by reason of his or her birth, and such untouchability 
as is recognized by religion is by its very nature tran¬ 
sitory — easily removable and referable to the deed, 
not the doer. Not only that. Just as we revere our 
mother for the sanitary service that she renders 
us when we are infants, and the greater her service 
the greater is our reverence for her, similarly, the 
Bhangis are entitled to our highest reverence for the 
sanitary service they perform for society. 

Toung India , 22-1-1925, p. 29 

It is my certain conviction that, if the Hindu 
heart is completely purged of the taint of untouch¬ 
ability, the event will have its inevitable influence 
not only upon all the communities in India but on the 
whole world. This belief is daily becoming stronger. 
I cannot remove from my heart untouchability regard¬ 
ing several millions of human beings and harbour it 
towards some other millions. The very act of the 
Hindu heart getting rid of distinctions of high and low 
must cure us of mutual jealousies and distrust of and 
among other communities. It is for that reason that 
I have staked my life on this issue. In fighting this 
battle against untouchability, I am fighting for unity 
not only among Hindu touchables and Hindu un¬ 
touchables but among Hindus, Muslims, Christians and 
all other different religious communities. Do not for 
one moment believe that I am interested in the nume¬ 
rical strength of Hindus. I have never, throughout 
my life, laid stress upon quantity. I have ever insisted 
upon quality at the sacrifice of quantity. If I collected 

NO SANCTION FOR UNTOUCHABILITY 

27 

a million false coins they would be a worthless burden 
to me. One true coin would be worth its value. A 
religion cannot be sustained by the number of its lip 
followers denying in their lives its tenets. This great 
Hindu religion itself will perish in spite of its so-called 
millions of followers, if its votaries persist in harbouring 
the evil of untouchability. Not because untouchables 
can be counted by the millions. It would perish 
even if they were a handful. Milk is poisoned and 
has to be thrown away whether you put a little or much 
arsenic in it. 

Harijan, 17-11-1933, p. 4 

CHAPTER 3 

NO SANCTION FOR UNTOUCHABILITY 

Untouchability is not a sanction of religion, it is 
a device of Satan. The devil has always quoted scrip¬ 
tures. But scriptures cannot transcend reason and 
truth. They are intended to purify reason and il¬ 
luminate truth. I am not going to burn a spotless 
horse because the Vedas are reported to have advised, 
tolerated, or sanctioned the sacrifice. For me the 
Vedas are divine and unwritten. ‘The letter killeth5. 
It is the spirit that giveth the light. And the spirit of 
the Vedas is purity, truth, innocence, chastity, humility, 
simplicity, forgiveness, godliness, and all that makes a 
man or woman noble and brave. There is neither 
nobility nor bravery in treating the great and uncom¬ 
plaining scavengers of the nation as worse than dogs 
to be despised and spat upon. 

Young India, 19-1-1921, p. 22 

28 THE SIN OF UNTOU CH ABILITY 

I assure you that in Hinduism there is no sanction 
for treating a single human being as untouchable. In 
the estimation of a Brahmana knowing and living his 
religion, a Shudra is as good as himself. The Bha- 
gavadgita has nowhere taught that a Chandala is in 
any way inferior to a Brahmana. A Brahmana ceases 
to be a Brahmana, immediately he becomes insolent 
and considers himself a superior being. India owes a 
deep debt to the Brahmanas who voluntarily sacrificed 
themselves for the betterment of all. It was Brahmanas 
who have called God Servant of servants, the Purifier 
of the fallen. It was Brahmanas who taught that the 
prostitute and the Chandala could attain Moksha if 
she or he only purified her or his heart. 

But unfortunately for the human race the 
Brahmana shares with mankind the frailties of all. In 
common with others he has neglected his duty of giving 
knowledge to mankind, of guiding them in the 
right and truest path. We glibly charge Englishmen 
with insolence and haughtiness. Let us, before we 
cast the stone at them, free ourselves from liability to 
reproach. Let us put our own house in order. 

Toung India , 11-5-1921, p. 151 

Hinduism is like the Ganga pure and unsullied 
at its source, but taking in its course the impurities in 
the way. Even like the Ganga it is beneficent in its 
total effect. 

The Shastras are ever growing. The Vedas, 
Upanishads, Smritis, Puranas and Itihasas did not arise 
at one and the same time. Each grew out of the 
necessities of particular periods, and therefore they 
seem to conflict with one another. These books do 

NO SANCTION FOR UNTOUCHABILITY 

29 

not enunciate anew the eternal truths but show how 
these were practised at the time to which the books 
belong. A practice which was good enough in a 
particular period, would, if blindly repeated in another, 
land people into the ‘slough of despond’. Because 
the practice of animal sacrifice obtained at one time, 
shall we revive it today? Because at one time, we 
used to eat beef, shall we also do so now? Because 
at one time, we used to chop off the hands and feet 
of thieves, shall we revive that barbarity today ? Shall 
we revive polyandry? Shall we revive child mar¬ 
riages? Because we discarded a section of humanity 
one day, shall we brand their descendants today as 
outcastes ? 

Hinduism abhors stagnation. Knowledge is limit¬ 
less and so also the application of truth. Every day 
we add to our knowledge of the power of Atman, and 
we shall keep on doing so. New experience will teach 
us new duties, but truth shall ever be the same. 

Young India, 8-4-1926, p. 131 

The stories told in the Puranas are some of them 
most dangerous, if we do not know their bearing on 
the present conditions. The Shastras would be death¬ 
traps if we were to regulate our conduct according to 
every detail given in them or according to that of the 
characters therein described. They help us only to 
define and argue out fundamental principles. If some 
well-known character in religious books sinned against 
God or man, is that a warrant for our repeating the 
sin? It is enough for us to be told, once for all, that 
Truth is the only thing that matters in the world, that 
Truth is God. It is irrelevant to be told that even 
Yudhishthira was betrayed into an untruth. It is 

30 

THE SIN OF UNTOUGHABILITY 

more relevant for us to know that when he spoke an 
untruth, he had to suffer for it that very moment and 
that his great name in no way protected him from 
punishment. Similarly, it is irrelevant for us to be 
told that Adishankara avoided a Ghandala. It is 
enough for us to know that a religion that teaches us 
to treat all that lives as we treat ourselves, cannot 
possibly countenance the inhuman treatment of a 
single creature, let alone a whole class of perfectly 
innocent human beings. Moreover we have not even 
ail the facts before us to judge what Adishankara did 
or did not do. Still less, do we know the meaning of 
the word Ghandala where it occurs. It has admit¬ 
tedly many meanings, one of which is a sinner. But 
if all sinners are to be regarded as untouchables, it is 
very much to be feared that we should all, not exclud¬ 
ing the Pandit* himself, be under the ban of untoucha- 
bility. That untouchability is an old institution, 
nobody has ever denied. But, if it is an evil, it cannot 
be defended on the ground of its antiquity. 

Toiling India , 29-7-1926, p. 268 

*This article from which this excerpt is made was written 
in answer to a plea for untouchability made by a Pandit from 
the South. 

I 

CHAPTER 4 

THE CANKER OF SUPERIORITY 

I notice throughout my tour in Cutch that, as in 
other parts of India, untouchables have among them¬ 
selves also superior and inferior castes and the higher 
caste Antyaja will not touch the lower caste, will 
positively refuse to send their children to those be¬ 
longing to the lower caste. Intermarriage and inter¬ 
dining between them is unthinkable. This is caste 
reduced to the grossest absurdity. And it is by way 
of protest against this arrogation of superiority by one 
class over another, that I delight in calling myself a 
Bhangi, that is a sweeper, beyond which so far as I 
am aware, inferiority does not travel. It is necessary 
if we will rid Hinduism of the course of natural in¬ 
equalities, for some of us to rise with our whole soul 
in revolt against it. In my opinion he who claims 
superiority, by the very nature of the claim forfeits it. 
Real, natural superiority, comes without the claiming. 
It is recognized ungrudgingly and ever refused not 
pompously, not out of a false sense of modesty but 
because the superiority is not even felt, and because the 
superior man knows that there is no distinction what¬ 
soever between the soul within himself and the soul 
within one who regards himself as his inferior. Re¬ 
cognition of the essential identity and oneness of all 
that lives excludes the very idea of superiority and 
inferiority. Life is duty, not a bundle of rights and 
privileges. That religion is doomed to destruction 
which bases itself upon -a system of gradations high and 
low. 

31 

32 

THE SIN OF UNTOUCH ABILITY 

Such is not the meaning for me of Varnashrama. 
I believe in it because I imagine that it defines the 
duties of men belonging to different vocations. And 
Brahmana is he who is the servant of all, even of the 
Shudras and the untouchables. He dedicates his all 
to such service and lives upon the charity and suffer¬ 
ance of his fellow-being. He is no Kshatriya who puts 
forth pretensions to rank, power and privileges. He 
alone is a Kshatriya who uses the whole of himself 
for the defence and honour of society. And a Vaishya 
who earns for himself only, and believes in merely 
amassing wealth is a thief. A Shudra because he 
labours for hire on behalf of society is in no way inferior 
to the three classes. According to my conception of 
Hinduism there is no such thing as a fifth or ‘untouch¬ 
able5 class. The so-called untouchables are as much 
privileged labourers of society as Shudras. Varna¬ 
shrama seems to me to be an ideal system conceived 
for the highest good of society. What we see today 
is a travesty and a mockery of the original. And if 
Varnashrama is to abide, Hindus must sweep away the 
mockery and restore Varanashrama to its pristine 
dignity. 

Young India , 5-11-1925, p. 380 

The idea of superiority and inferiority is repugnant 
to the most elementary principles of morality. A 
Brahmana who considers himself superior to any single 
creature of God ceases to be a knower of Brahma. 
If we are children of the same God, how can there be 
any rank among us ? The very first mention of Varna 
in the Vedas likens the four Varnas to the four main 
parts of the body. Is the head superior to the arms, 
the belly and the feet, or the feet superior to the other 

THE CRIME OF CASTE 

33 

three? What will happen to the body, if these mem¬ 
bers begin to quarrel about rank? The law of Varna 
is one of absolute equality among all the creatures of 
God. It is the basis of all the religions of the world. 
The verses in the Smritis about Shudras deserve to be 
summarily rejected as being contrary to the spirit 
of humanity. 

Harijan, 28-9-1934, p. 258 

CHAPTER 5 

THE CRIME OF CASTE 

An extraordinary case that was tried in a Madras 
Presidency court brings vividly to light the *sad plight 
of our suppressed countrymen. A simple cleanly 
dressed Panchama entered a temple in a perfectly 
devotional spirit without the slightest intention of 
hurting anybody’s feeling or insulting any religion. 
He had been in the habit of paying his respects at this 
temple every year though he did not enter it. But 
last year in his ecstatic mood he forgot himself and 
entered the temple. The priest in charge could not 
distinguish him from the others and therefore accepted 
his offering. But when he regained self-possession, he 
was terrified to find himself in a prohibited place and 
ran away from the temple. But some who knew him 
caught him and handed him to the police. The 
temple authorities when they discovered the crime, 
had the temple duly purified. Then followed a trial. 
A Hindu Magistrate convicted him and imposed a 
fine of Rs. 75 or one month’s rigorous imprisonment for 
insulting his own religion! An appeal was filed. 
There was an elaborate argument over it. Judgment 

0-3 

34 

THE SIN OF UNT OU CH ABILITY 

had to be reserved! And when conviction was set 
aside, it was not because the court held that the poor 
Panchama had a right to enter the temple but because 
the prosecution in the lower court had forgotten to prove 
the insult. This is no triumph of justice or truth or 
religion or morality. 

The only consolation to be derived from the success¬ 
ful appeal is the Panchama will not have to suffer 
imprisonment for having in his zeal for worship forgot¬ 
ten that he was a prohibited entrant. If however he 
or his fellow-Panchamas again dare to enter the temple, 
it is highly probable that they would be severely puni¬ 
shed if they are not lynched by those who look down 
upon them with contempt. 

It is *a curious situation. We resent, and pro¬ 
perly, the treatment meted out to our countrymen in 
South Africa. We are impatient to establish Swaraj. 
But we Hindus refuse to see the incongruity in treat¬ 
ing a fifth of our own co-religionists as worse than 
dogs. For dogs are not untouchables. Some of us 
nowadays even keep them as drawing-room pets. 

Much has no doubt been done to remove this evil. 
But it is all too little so long as prosecutions for temple 
entry are possible and so long as the suppressed classes 
continue to be denied the right of entering temples, 
using public wells, and sending their children freely 
to national schools. We must yield to them the same 
rights as we would have the Europeans concede to our 
countrymen in South Africa. 

But this case is not without its relieving features. 
The quashing of the conviction is no doubt some con¬ 
solation. But the best consolation lies in the fact of 
so many Savarna Hindus actively interesting them¬ 
selves in the poor Panchama’s behalf. The appeal 

ANTI-UNTOU CHABILITY AND SELF-PURIFICATION 35 

would not. have been noted if some one had not 
gone to the accused’s assistance. It is to be wished 
that every educated Hindu will constitute himself the 
untouchable’s friend and regard it his duty to free him 
from the tyranny of custom masquerading under the 
name of religion. Not the entry of a Panchama into 
a temple but the brand of prohibition against him is 
an insult to religion and humanity. 

Toung India, 14-1-1926, p. 16 

CHAPTER 6 

ANTI-UNTOU CHABILITY — A MOVEMENT OF 

SELF-PURIFICATION 

To remove untouchability is a penance thatcaste- 
Hindus owe to Hinduism and to themselves. The 
purification required is not of untouchables but of the 
so-called superior castes. There is no vice that is 
special to the untouchables, not even dirt and insani¬ 
tation. It is our arrogance which blinds us, superior 
Hindus, to our own blemishes and which magnifies 
those of our downtrodden brethren whom we have 
suppressed and whom we keep under suppression. 
Religions like nations are being weighed in the balance. 
God’s grace and revelation are the monopoly of no 
race or nation. They descend equally upon all who 
wait upon God. That religion and that nation will 
be blotted out of the face of the earth which pins its 
faith to injustice, untruth or violence. God is Light, 
not darkness. God is Love, not hate. God is Truth, 
not untruth. God alone is great. We His creatures 
are but dust. Let us be humble and recognize the 

36 

THE SIN OF UNTOU GH ABILITY 

place of the lowliest of His creatures. Krishna hono¬ 
ured Sudama in his rags as he honoured no one else. 
Love is the root of religion. 

Toung India , 26-12-1924, pp. 423-24 

There are some people in Kanpur who look upon 
theHarijan movement as irreligious and have issued a 
large number of leaflets for public consumption. I 
was sorry to find that these were full of palpable false¬ 
hoods and insidious half-truths, exaggerations and 
distortions. How I wish these statements were made 
unintentionally! For instance, it is said that reformers 
in some places slaughtered Sanatanists without mercy; 
but I know nothing about it. If I did, I need scarcely 
say I would take strong action to check it. What a 
deep tragedy it is that these falsehoods are spread in the 
name of Sanatana Dharm'a! I appeal to Sanatanists 
to stop this campaign of falsehoods. 

You would give lakhs, where you now give 
thousands, if you understood the far-reaching character 
of the Harijan movement. Nevertheless our goal 
cannot be achieved by collections, no matter how 
large they are. It will be achieved only with the 
melting of Savarna Hindu hearts. This is a movement 
of purification. It has nothing to do with the count¬ 
ing of heads. We do not seek to make goondas of 
Harijans. We seek to make them worthy citizens. 
If we succeed, the world will benefit as well as we. 
At present the world would be fully justified in des¬ 
pising us and our faith in the maltreatment of five 
crores of our own kith and kin in the name of religion. 

I have regard for black flaggers, no less than for 
reformers and if it was possible I would gladly go away 
as they wish me to do. But I consider it my religious 
duty to bear witness to truth as I see it and any number 

ANTI-UNTOUCHABILITY AND SELF-PURIFICATION 37 

of black flags or even a bomb or revolver cannot pre¬ 
vent me from discharging it by such means as are 
open to me. I am but an imperfect being and not 
a tapasvi who could blow away untouchability with a 
breath from the Himalayas. I can only speak to such 
as are inclined to hear me and for this I am going 
about from place to place, although I long for rest 
from the toil of continuous travel. 

Let me tell the Sanatanistswho claim to be mono¬ 
polists of religious truth that I believe in the same 
Shastras as they do. I have profound disagreements 
with them as regards the interpretation of these Shas¬ 
tras which lay down that, when there is a conflict of 
interpretation, one must follow the promptings of 
one’s own conscience, and that is exactly what I am 
doing. I would be the Sanatanists’ slave if they could 
convince me that I was wrong. Meanwhile, I will % 
say even with my last breath that if we do not wash out 
the stain of untouchability, Hindus and Hinduism 
will be wiped out from the face of the earth. 

Let me repeat the implications of this movement. 
It is limited to the removal of the feeling of superiority 
and inferiority and has nothing to do with interdining 
and intermarriage. I personally interdine with 
Bhangis and Musalmans. I am not ashamed of this. 
On the other hand I think my conduct in this respect 
is fully in consonance with the Shastras. But it has 
nothing to do with this movement. Interdining and 
intermarriage are matters of individual choice. There 
is no need nor can I spare the time for such propaganda. 

I only place the essentials of religion before the people 
for their acceptance. The movement claims for 
Harijans the same social, civic and religious rights as 
belonging to any other Hindus. 

38 

THE SIN OF UNTOUCHABILITY 

As regards temple entry, you should know that 
no temple is opened to Harijans except with the full 
consent of those who attend that temple for worship. 
Temples must be opened as part of our penance. Not 
a single pie from the Harijan fund is spent on temple 
building. Our constant effort is to ensure as large 
a part of it as possible to find its way into Harijan 
pockets in one way or other. 

From an authorized translation of Gandhiji’s speech in 
Hindi delivered at a public meeting held at Kanpur on 22-7-1934 

Harijan, 3-8-1934, p. 194 

CHAPTER 7 

TOWARDS BROTHERHOOD OF MAN 

... I do not believe that life is divided into 
separate air-tight compartments. On the contrary, 
it is an undivided and indivisible whole; and, there¬ 
fore, what is or may be good for one must be good 
for all. Whatever activity fails to stand that un¬ 
mistakable test is an activity that must be abjured by 
all who have the public weal at heart. 

Having throughout my life believed in this doc¬ 
trine of universal good, never have I taken up any 
activity — be it sectional or national — which would be 
detrimental to the good of humanity as a whole. And 
in pursuing that universal goal, I discovered years 
ago that untouchability, as it is practised today among 
Hindus, is a hindrance not only to the march of 
Hindus towards their own good, but also a hindrance 
to the general good of all. He who runs may discover 
for himself how this untouchability has taken in its 

TOWARDS BROTHERHOOD OF MAN 39 

snaky coil not merely caste-Hindus but all other com¬ 
munities representing different faiths in India, that is 
to say, Musalmans, Christians and others. In dealing 
with the monster of untouchability, my own inner¬ 
most desire is not that the brotherhood of Hindus only 
may be achieved, but it essentially is that the brother¬ 
hood of man — be the Hindu, Musalman, Christian, 
Parsi or Jew — may be realized. For, I believe in the 
fundamental truth of all great religions of the world. I 
believe that they are God-given, and I believe that 
they were necessary for the people to whom these reli¬ 
gions were revealed. And I believe that, if only we 
could all of us read the scriptures of the different 
faiths from the standpoint of the followers of those 
faiths, we should find that they were at bottom all 
one and were all helpful to one another. 

Hence it is that I have not hesitated to ask all 
non-Hindus to help me with their prayer in this 
mission, and it is because I have a living faith in my 
mission and because that faith is based on an extensive 
experience that I have not hesitated to say with the 
greatest deliberation that, if we, Hindus, do not des¬ 
troy this monster of untouchability, it will devour 
both Hindus and Hinduism. And when I ask you to 
purify your hearts of untouchability, I ask of you 
nothing less than this — that you should believe in the 
fundamental unity and equality of man. I invite 
you all to forget that there are any distinctions of high 
and low among the children of one and the same God. 

And therefore it is that I have not hesitated to 
plead on bended knees before those caste-Hindus who 
call themselves Sanatanists that they should join hands 
with me in this movement of self-purification. If they 
would only patiently study it and its implications, 

40 

THE SIN OF UNTOUGH ABILITY 

they would discover that there are more points of 
contact than of difference between them and the 
reformers. They cannot possibly, if they will study 
the movement, justify themselves in subjecting to 
indignities all those who are considered untouchables. 
Not far from Trichinopoly there is a place called 
Melarasur. There the Harijans have claimed to use 
public tanks in common with the others. Law 
permits the use of these tanks by Harijans. Neverthe¬ 
less caste Hindus have taken the law into their own 
hands: and I understand that in a variety of ways 
they have persecuted these brethren of ours. This is 
but one illustration out of many that I could give 
you of the ill-treatment of Harijans. No religious 
sophistry can possibly justify conduct such as this. 

From a speech delivered by Gandhiji at a public meeting 
held at Trichinopoly on the 10th February, 1934 

Harijan , 16-2-1934, pp. 5-6 

This ‘touch-me-not-ism’ has not been confined 
to Harijans, but it has affected caste against caste, and 
religion against religion. I, for one, shall not be satis¬ 
fied until, as the result of this movement, we have 
arrived at heart-unity amongst all the different races 
and communities inhabiting this land, and it is for 
that reason that I have invited the co-operation of all 
the people living in India and even outside. 

Harijan , 16-2-1934, p. 7 

And remember, too, the magnificent result that 
we intend, or we expect, to achieve from this remo¬ 
val of untouchability — it is no less than the reali¬ 
zation of the brotherhood of Man. You cannot, — 
millions of caste-Hindus cannot — do reparation to 
several million Harijans, whom they have suppressed 

TOWARDS BROTHERHOOD OF MAN 41 

for centuries, without setting free a power, a force, 
that will envelop the whole of the human family 
and knit all its members together into one. And it is 
because I have never lost sight of this goal that I have 
called this movement a deeply spiritual and exclusive¬ 
ly religious movement. And it is because I realize to 
the fullest extent how untouchability, as we practise 
it today in the name of religion, is a stumbling block 
in the realization of this brotherhood that I have 
not hesitated to say that, if we do not cleanse our¬ 
selves of this cursed untouchability, Hinduism and 
Hindus are bound to perish. ... I know that there 
are people among us who still cling to the belief that 
untouchability is not only not a sin, but is an obliga¬ 
tion imposed upon us by the Shastras. As against 
that, I can but give you my own personal experience 
based upon uniform conduct for the past fifty years, 
and that experience is backed by a study of our Shas¬ 
tras such as is possible for a layman, and at that, a 
busy man like myself. After that prayerful study, 
after discussion with learned Shastris who believe 
in untouchability, I have come to the deliberate con¬ 
clusion that untouchability has no warrant whatsoever 
in the Hindu Shastras. It is a sin before God and man. 
The sooner we get rid of this sin the better it is for us, 
for the whole world. 

From a speech by Gandhiji at Arkonam on 21st February, 

1934 

Harijan , 2-3-1934, p. 22 

In battling against untouchability and in dedi¬ 
cating myself to that battle, I have no less an ambition 
than to see a complete regeneration of humanity. It 
may be a mere dream, as unreal as the silver in the 

42 

THE SIN OF UNTOUCH ABILITY 

sea-shell. It is not so to me while the dream lasts, 
and in the words of Romain Rolland, ‘Victory lies 
not in realization of the goal, but in a relentless pur¬ 
suit after it5. 

Young India, 26-11-1931, p. 372 

CHAPTER 8 

CONVERSION NO REMEDY 

If, afflicted by the persecution and losing hope 
of ever receiving help from the other Savarna Hindus, 
the poor Harijans seek the shelter of Christianity, we 
may not be surprised. And our grief is worse than use¬ 
less if we cannot turn it into powerful energy. Conver¬ 
sion under the stress of physical discomfort is no spiri¬ 
tual conversion. But we may not grumble if Harijans 
change their faith in order to better their material 
condition and to secure protection from persecution. 

What we need deplore is the cause of conversion. 
Let us realize and own that Savarna Hindus are the 
cause. Will they listen to this advice? Conversions are 
but one small result of the disease. Remove the 
cause, and the conversions will cease, as also many 
worse results. 

Harijan, 22-3-1935, p. 42 

Men who threaten to leave their religion, because 
some other men, pretending to be of the same faith 
as they, prevent them from entering temples, have little 
religion about them. Such men cannot be said to be 
actuated by the religious spirit. Temples are houses 
of worship. They are for all who believe in them. Reli¬ 
gious persecution is not a thing of today. It is as 

CONVERSION NO REMEDY 

43 

ancient as religion itself. It tries and purifies the perse¬ 
cuted who prove themselves staunch in their faith. 
If Harijans can patiently bear persecution, they 
are bound to come triumphant in the end. 

But the threat to desert the faith they have un¬ 
complainingly professed from time immemorial, if 
their right of temple-entry is not recognized, puts 
them out of court. Sanatanists probably do not care 
if Harijans leave the Hindu fold. Reformers will be 
nonplussed if they have no case to fight for. Fortunate¬ 
ly, there are tens of thousands of Harijans whose faith 
remains unshakable in spite of persecution. 

Religion is an essentially personal matter. It is one 
between oneself and one’s God. It should never be 
made a matter of bargain. 

Harijan , 29-3-1935, p. 52 

It is an admitted fact that the conduct of a vast 
number of Hindus who call themselves Sanatanists 
is such as to cause the greatest inconvenience and 
irritation to the Harijans all over India. The wonder 
is that many more Harijans than already have, have 
not left Hinduism. It speaks volumes for their loyalty 
or for the innate virtue of Hinduism that millions of 
Harijans have clung to it in spite of the inhumanities 
to which in the name of that very faith they have 
been subjected. 

This wonderful loyalty of Harijans and their 
unexampled patience render it imperative for every 
Savarna Hindu to see that Harijans receive the same 
treatment that every other Hindu does. The course 
before Savarnas is, therefore, on the one hand, not to 
interfere with Harijans wishing to leave the Hindu 
fold by trying to keep them within it by the offer of 

44 

THE SIN OF UNTOU CH ABILITY 

bribes in the shape of finding employment or scholar¬ 
ships; and on the other hand, to insist on full justice 
being done to Harijans in every walk of life. Indeed 
reformers should anticipate the Harijans’ require¬ 
ments and not wait till they begin to complain. The 
greatest hardship felt by thousands of Harijans is want 
of pure water for drinking and domestic use, denial 
of access to public schools and other institutions, cons¬ 
tant pin-pricks in villages, and last but not least, denial 
of access to temples of worship. These disabilities are 
stern realities in the lives of the vast masses of Harijans. 
If they as a mass give up Hinduism, they will do so 
because of these common disabilities which brand 
them as lepers of Hindu society. Hinduism is passing 
through a fiery ordeal. It will perish not through 
individual conversions, not even through mass conver¬ 
sions, but it will perish because of the sinful denial by 
the so-called Savarna Hindus of elementary justice to 
Harijans. Every threat of conversion is, therefore, a 
warning to the Savarnas that if they do not wake up 
in time it may be too late! 

One word to the impatient and needy Hari¬ 
jans. They must not use threats when they approach 
Hindu institutions or individuals for help. They should 
rely upon the strength of their case demanding a hear¬ 
ing. The majority of Harijans do not know what 
change of religion can mean. They mutely suffer the 
continuing degradation to which Savarnas in their 
selfishness have consigned them. They must be the 
primary care of Hindu reformers whether they com¬ 
plain or do not. Those who are enlightened enough 
to know and feel the degradation and know also 
what change of religion means are either too good 
Hindus to desert their ancestral faith and deserve 

TEMPLE-ENTRY FOR UNTOUCHABLES 45 

every help they need, or being indifferent as to religion 
may not claim help from Savarna Hindus in exchange 
for their condescending to remain in the Hindu fold. 
I would, therefore, plead with enlightened Harijans 
for their own sakes not to seek material betterment 
under threat of conversion. And whilst reformers 
must on no account yield to threats, they must cease¬ 
lessly strive to secure justice for Harijans at the hands 
of Savarna Hindus. 

Harijan, 21-3-1936, p. 44 

CHAPTER 9 

TEMPLE-ENTRY FOR UNTOUCHABLES 

It is the persecutors who are unknowingly de¬ 
filing their own religion by keeping out of public 
temples men who are at least as honourable as they 
claim to be themselves and are willing to abide by all 
the ceremonial rules observable by Hindus in general 
on such occasions. More than that no man has any 
right to impose or expect. The heart of man only 
God knows. An ill-dressed Panchama may have a 
much cleaner heart than a meticulously dressed high 
caste Hindu. 

Young India, 11-3-1926, p. 95 

Temple entry is the one spiritual act that would 
constitute the message of freedom to the untouchables 
and assure them that they are not outcastes before 

God. 

Harijan, 11-2-1933, p. 5 

I have absolutely no desire that the temple should 
be opened to Harijans, until caste Hindu opinion is 
ripe for the opening. It is not a question of Harijans 

46 

THE SIN OF UNTOUCH ABILITY 

asserting their right of temple entry or claiming it. 
They may or may not want to enter that temple even 
when it is declared open to them. But it is the 
bounden duty of every caste Hindu to secure that 
opening for Harijans. 

[From a speech at Shrirangam] 

Harijan, 23-2-1934, p. 10 

If all that there is in the universe is pervaded by 
God, that is to say, if the Brahmana and the Bhangi, 
the learned man and the scavenger, the Ezhava and 
the Pariah, no matter what caste they belong to — 
if all these are pervaded by Lord God, in the light of 
this Mantra*, there is none that is high and none 
that is low, all are absolutely equal, equal because 
all are the creatures of that Creator. And this is 
not a philosophical thing to be dished out to Brah- 
manas or Kshatriyas, but it enunciates an eternal 
truth which admits of no reduction, no palliation. 

. . .And if that is so, how can anyone here dare to 
arrogate superiority to himself or herself over any 
other human being? I tell you, therefore, that if this 
Mantra holds good, if there is any man or woman here 
who believes that the temples are defiled by those 
called Avarnas, that person, I declare, would be guilty 
of a grave sin. 

Harijan , 30-1-1937, p. 408 

tnf qrfarsr snuqt wr i 
ifcr nsMttt in tut; sunr n 

o C -S 

This verse when translated would read as follows: 

“God, the Ruler, pervades all there is in this universe. 
Therefore renounce and dedicate all to Him and then enjoy or 
use the portion that may fall to thy lot. Never covet anybody’s 
possessions.” 

TEMPLE-ENTRY FOR UNTOUCHABLES 

47 

(With reference to Gandhiji’s ‘anti-untouchability’ fast in 
Yeravda Jail during, the latter part of 1932, a correspondent 
wrote to him: 4 ‘Hitherto I have known you to be free from any 
trace of communalism, but you now suddenly appear in a com¬ 
munal garb. I could have understood and justified your fast for 
Swaraj or for all-India unity, but I cannot understand this fast 
on behalf of Hinduism. I have never taken you as a Hindu at 
all, certainly not as a narrow Hindu. What is there in opening 
the temples to Harijans, who do not want to go there?” Gandhiji 
replied to the correspondent as follows:) 

I am glad of this question. I have no desire what¬ 
soever to appear to anyone as other than what I am. 

I am not ashamed of Hinduism or of being a Hindu. 

I totally deny being narrow. I fancy I could not be 
held for one single moment by a narrow creed, and it 
is because the super-imposition of untouchability 
would make Hinduism a narrow creed that I have re¬ 
belled against it, and I would count my life to be a 
cheap price to pay for the removal of that blot. 

I have nothing of the communalist in me, because 
my Hinduism is all inclusive. It is not anti-Musalman, 
anti-Christian or anti-any-other-religion. But it is 
pro-Musalman, pro-Christian and pro-every other- 
living-faith in the world. To me, Hinduism is 
but one branch from the same parent trunk, whose 
roots and quality we judge only by the collective 
strength and quality of the different branches put 
together. And if I take care of the Hindu branch 
on which I am sitting and which sustains me, 
surely I am taking care also of the sister branches. 
If the Hindu branch is poisoned, the poison is likely 
to spread to others. If that branch withers, the parent 
will be the weaker for its withering. 

48 

THE SIN OF UNTOU CH ABILITY 

If my correspondent and those who think with 
him have followed me hitherto, they will discover 
that if God gives me the privilege of dying for this 
Hinduism of my conception, I shall have sufficiently 
died for the unity of all and even for Swaraj. Finally 
let me repeat what I have said before now that the 
question whether Harijans want to or would enter 
into temples, if they were open to them, is irrelevant. 
The removal of untouchability is not a matter of bes¬ 
towing patronage on Harijans. It is one of penance 
and purification by the caste Hindus, and one of 
the penances they have to do is to open the Hindu 
temples and invite the Harijans to them. 

My Soul’s Agony, 28-11-1932, pp. 70-71 

CHAPTER 10 

TEMPLE-ENTRY vs. ECONOMIC UPLIFT 

One sees sometimes in the public press criticism 
on the temple-entry question. It is double-barrelled, 
being directed on the one hand by Harijans and on 
the other by Sanatanists. Some of the Harijans say, 
‘We do not want temple-entry; do not build tem¬ 
ples, but use all you receive for economic uplift.5 Some 
Sanatanists say, ‘Give up the temple-entry question 
altogether. You are hurting our feelings by forcing 
Harijans into temples.5 Both are wrong in substance. 
Not one single pice out of the purse has been or will 
be spent for building temples. Attempt is being made 
only to have public temples opened to Harijans on 
the same terms on which they are open to the other 
Hindus. It is a matter of choice for the Harijans 

TEMPLE-ENTRY VS. ECONOMIC UPLIFT 49 

to visit or not to visit them. Savarna Hindus have 
to lift the bar against Harijans. For those millions 
who regard temples as treasure chests of spiritual 
wealth, they are living realities which they hold 
dear as life itself. If they are truly repentant towards 
Harijans, they must share these treasures with the 
latter. I know what the opening of temples means to 
Harijans. Only last week, between Dharwad and 
Belgaum, I opened three temples to Harijans in the 
presence of crowds of Savarna Hindus and Harijans. 
If critics had been present at the opening and noticed 
the pleasure on the countenances of the Harijans pre¬ 
sent as they bowed before the image and received the 
prasad , their criticism would have been silenced. Harijan 
critics would have realized that, apart from themselves, 
Harijans at large did desire temple-entry. Sanatanist 
critics would have realized that temples, wherever they 
were opened, were being opened with the fullest concur¬ 
rence of the temple-goers concerned and in the presence 
of crowds of them. No hole-and-corner opening can do 
any good whatsoever to Hinduism. To be of spiritual 
or any value at all, the opening has to be performed 
with due publicity, solemnity and the willing consent 
of the existing temple-goers, and not of such self-styled 
reformers as have no faith or interest in temples and 
for whom temples may even be a superstition. Temple- 
entry agitation requires no financial outlay; it does 
not lend itself to agitation except by a few workers 
who have faith in temples and whose word would 
command attention from the mass Savarna mind. 
It is, therefore, a question that can only be and is 
being gently and cautiously handled. The only insis¬ 
tence is on the right and the duty of the believing 
reformer advocating temple-entry and showing that 

0-4 

50 

THE SIN OF UNTOUCH ABILITY 

without it the reformation will not only be incomplete 
but fruitless. For, without temples being freely open to 
Harijans, untouchability could not be said to have 
been removed root and branch. 

As for the economic uplift, it is altogether wrong 
to put it in opposition to temple-entry. Temple-entry 
can only help such uplift. For, when Harijans are free¬ 
ly admitted to temples, all the avenues to economic 
betterment must be automatically open to Harijans 
as to others. So far as the moneys received are concern¬ 
ed, they will all be used only for economic uplift, if 
it is admitted that educational uplift also means eco¬ 
nomic, in that it makes the educated Harijan fitter 
for running life’s race. 

Harijan , 16-3-1934, p. 36 

CHAPTER 11 

TEMPLES FOR UNTOUCHABLES 

In the beginning of the movement as I had con¬ 
ceived it on my return from South Africa in 1915, 
I had thought that it was wholly inconsistent with the 
movement for removing untouchability to build sepa¬ 
rate temples or schools for them. But experience taught 
me that the movement could not proceed upon strict 
logic, and that we Hindus had so much suppressed a 
third of ourselves that even after the articulate Hindus 
had with one voice declared for removal, the sup¬ 
pressed brethren would for a long time need the help¬ 
ing hand in a variety of ways. After the theoretical, 
lip-removal of untouchability, if no special effort was 

TEMPLES FOR UNTOUCHABLES 

51 

made, the vast bulk of them would not readily take 
advantage of the removal and the ignorant mass 
would not tolerate them especially when the latter 
would be naturally clumsy in their deportment or 
pardonably forward in the enjoyment of long with¬ 
held freedom. I am therefore convinced that the two 
things will have to go hand in hand — perfect freedom 
to enter ordinary temples and ordinary schools and 
to use common wells, at the same time as erection of 
model schools and model temples specially designed 
for the convenience of untouchables but open to the 
others subject always to priority for untouchables. It 
was along this line of reasoning that I suggested in the 
brief note for the Calcutta Municipal Gazette that the 
municipalities could foster removal of untouchabi- 
lity by erecting temples and model schools for the 
suppressed classes side by side with the attempt to 
have the existing temples thrown open to these 
countrymen of ours. My note may therefore on no 
account be taken as an excuse for condoning prohi¬ 
bition against entry into temples etc. 

Young India , 28-11-1929, pp. 388-89 

) 

CHAPTER 12 

TO SANATANISTS 

Almost every letter that I have received from 
the Sanatanists makes these agreeable startling ad¬ 
missions : 

1. We admit that there is much to be done for 
the amelioration of the Harijans. 

2. We admit that many caste Hindus are ill- 
treating the Harijans. 

3. We admit that Harijan children should re¬ 
ceive education. 

4. We admit that Harijans should have better 
quarters to live in. 

5. We admit that they should have proper ar¬ 
rangements for bathing and drawing water for them¬ 
selves. 

6. We admit that they should have full practical 
rights. 

7. We admit that they should have ample faci¬ 
lities for worship; and 

8. We admit that they should have all the civic 
rights that the others have. 

“But,” say the Sanatanists, “we must not be com¬ 
pelled to touch them or associate with them, especially 
whilst they are in their present condition.55 

Then I say to them, “Since you admit the neces¬ 
sity for putting them on the same level with you, why 
are you agitated when other caste Hindus will go a 
step further and believe, on the strength of the same 
Shastras that you believe in, that it is their duty not to 
regard the Harijans as untouchables but to have 

52 

TO SANATANISTS 

53 

them share with themselves all those rights and privi¬ 
leges which you concede to them, but which you would 
have them to enjoy and exercise in isolation from 
you. Surely you, who want to guard your own liberty 
of action and rightly resent the very idea of coercion, 
will not desire that the reformers should be coerced 
into carrying out schemes of amelioration which you 
hold to be necessary, in exactly the same manner as 
you would like. 

“I venture to suggest a better way. Since you 
are at one with the reformers in conceding the 
desirability of ameliorating the condition of the Hari- 
jans, and since you have not hitherto done anything 
tangible in that direction, subscribe liberally to the 
funds that the reformers are collecting, and use them 
as your agents for carrying out the common scheme 
and respect their interpretation of Hindu religion as 
you would have them to respect yours. Hitherto in 
practice, you have not resented the reformer’s action 
in associating with the Harijans. You have suffered 
him to go his own way. You have not boycotted him. 
There is then no meaning in your opposition now, 
simply because the movement has become more ac¬ 
tive and more universal than before.” 

One difficulty still stands in the way. Who is to 
have the use of public temples and other public insti¬ 
tutions that are in existence and from which Harijans 
are at present debarred, in some cases legally, and 
in other far more numerous cases illegally? The 
Sanatanists, or the reformers together with the Hari¬ 
jans? There is a very simple way out of the difficulty. 
If only each party will shed anger and mutual disres¬ 
pect, a referendum can easily be taken for each village 

54 

THE SIN OF UNTOUCHABILITY 

or a group of villages and each city or each division 
of a city, and whichever party has the majority in fa¬ 
vour of its view should make use of the public insti¬ 
tutions including temples. And if the Sanatanists carry 
the majority with them they should defray their share 
with the reformers of the cost of providing equal 
services for the reformers and the Harijans. I bracket 
the reformers with the Harijans, for if they are worth 
their salt and will work up to their convictions, as 
time progresses the duty must dawn upon them of 
denying to themselves the use of a single service which 
the Harijans cannot enjoy with caste Hindus on abso¬ 
lutely equal terms. Following out this train of reason¬ 
ing the Sanatanists will see that in justice they should 
bear the whole cost of bringing into being parallel 
services because, as I have understood the correspon¬ 
dence and as I have explained above, the Sana¬ 
tanists agree that the Harijans are entitled to the same 
services that they have hitherto enjoyed and of which 
Harijans have hitherto been deprived. 

Let not the Sanatanists run away with them¬ 
selves by picturing a condition of things as existing 
but which in reality does not exist. Let them clearly 
understand that removal of untouchability, in accor¬ 
dance with the Yeravda Pact and with the declara¬ 
tion of the recently formed Servants of Untoucha¬ 
bles Society, includes no more than I have narrated. 
It does not include interdining and intermarriage. 
That many Hindus, including myself, would go much 
further ought not to disturb the Sanatanists. They 
will not want to stifle private judgment or private 
action, and if they have deep faith in what they 
believe, they should not take fright in anticipation 
of what is to come. If a particular reform has inherent 

TO CASTE HINDUS 

55 

vitality and has come in response to the needs of the 
time, no power on earth can stem its irresistible 
march. 

My Soul's Agony, 16-11-1932, pp. 49-52 

CHAPTER 13 

TO CASTE HINDUS 

What though a man drinks, kills cows and eats 
carrion ? He is no doubt an evil-doer though no great¬ 
er than the one who commits secret and more deadly 
sins. But he is not to be treated as an untouchable 
even as society does not treat the secret sinner as 
one. Sinners are not to be despised, but pitied and 
helped to rid themselves of their sinfulness. The exis¬ 
tence of untouchability among Hindus is a denial of 
the doctrine of Ahimsa on which we pride ourselves. 
We are responsible for the evils among the untoucha¬ 
bles. What have we done to wean them from their 
ways? Do we not spend a fortune to reform mem¬ 
bers of our own families? Are the untouchables not 
members of the great Hindu family? Indeed, Hindu¬ 
ism teaches us to regard the whole of humanity as 
one indivisible and undivided family and holds each 
one of us responsible for the misdeeds of all. But if it 
is not possible to act up to the grand doctrine for its 
vastness, let us at least understand the unity of un¬ 
touchables with us since we regard them as Hindus. 

And what is worse, eating carrion or thinking 
carrion? We daily create, harbour and nourish mil¬ 
lions of untouchable thoughts. Let us shed them, 
for they are the true untouchables deserving to be 

56 

THE SIN OF UNTOU CHABILITY 

hated and cast out. And let us do penance for our 
past injustice towards the intouchable brothers by 
lovingly embracing them. The correspondent does 
not question the duty of serving the untouchables. 
How are we to serve them if their very sight offends 
and pollutes us? 

Toung India, 13-5-1926, p. 176 

Brute force will not sustain untouchability. It will 
bring about a revulsion of feeling in favour of the 
suppressed classes. It is a sign of the times that there 
were at least some ‘touchables’ who tried to defend 
the poor untouchables. . . . Silent sympathy on 
such occasions is not of much use. Every Hindu, who 
considers the removal of untouchability to be of para¬ 
mount importance, should on such occasions prove 
his sympathy by publicly defending the suppressed 
classes and having his own head broken in defending 
the helpless and the downtrodden. 

Toung India, 28-4-1927, p. 134 

Let me tell you that it is not enough for you to 
hold the belief passively that untouchability is a crime. 
He who is a passive spectator of crime is really, and 
in law, an active participator in it. You must there¬ 
fore begin and continue your agitation along all 
lawful and legitimate lines. 

Let me if- my voice will reach them, carry my 
voice to the Brahmana priests who are opposing this 
belated reform. It is a painful fact, but it is a historical 
truth, that priests who should have been the real 
custodians of religion have been instrumental in des¬ 
troying the religion of which they have been custo¬ 
dians. I see before my eyes the Brahmana priests in 
Travancore and also elsewhere destroying the very 

TO CASTE HINDUS 

57 

religion of which they are supposed to be custodians, 
from their ignorance or worse. All their learning, when 
it is utilized in order to sustain a hideous supersti¬ 
tion, a terrible wrong, turns to dust. I wish therefore 
that they will recognize before it is too late the signs 
of the times and march with the events which are 
taking them and us voluntarily or involuntarily along 
the path of truth. 

[From a speech in Nagercoil] 

Young India , 20-10-1927, p. 353 

I do preach to the Harijans cleanliness, absten¬ 
tion from carrion-eating and intoxicating drinks and 
drugs, necessity of taking education themselves and 
giving it to their children, also abstention from eating 
the leavings from caste Hindus5 plates, etc. Only, I 
do not put these before Harijans as conditions prece¬ 
dent to the removal of untouchability. On the con¬ 
trary, I suggest to caste Hindus that the shortcomings 
are not inherent to Harijans but that they are due to 
our criminal neglect of — even deliberate suppression 
of — these brethren of ours. Therefore, the disappea¬ 
rance of these shortcomings will take place sooner 
for our fraternizing with Harijans even as they are, 
and then helping them to become better men and 
women. That is the least penance caste Hindus can 
do for the past wrongs. We must approach Harijans 
as penitents or debtors, not as their patrons or credi¬ 
tors extending generosity to the undeserving. 

Harijan, 28-9-1934, pp. 257-58 

CHAPTER 14 

TO ‘UNTOUCHABLES’ 

You should realize that you are cleaning Hindu 
society. You have therefore to purify your lives. You 
should cultivate the habits of cleanliness, so that no 
one may point his finger at you. Use alkali ash or earth 
if you cannot afford to use soap, to keep yourselves 
clean. Some of you are given to drinking and gamb¬ 
ling which you must get rid of. You will point your 
fingers at the Brahmanas and say ‘even they are 
given to these vices5. But they are not looked upon 
as polluted; and you are. You must not ask caste 
Hindus to emancipate you as a matter of favour. They 
must do so, if they want, in their own interests. You 
should, therefore, make them feel ashamed by your 
own purity and cleanliness. 

You claim to be Hindus; you read the Bhaga- 
wata; if therefore, the Hindus oppress you then you 
should understand that fault does not lie in the Hindu 
religion but in those who profess it. Learn spinning 
and weaving; if you take them up as a profession, you 
will keep poverty from your doors. 

As regards your attitude towards the Bhangis I 
will repeat what I said at Godhra. I cannot under¬ 
stand why you should yourselves countenance the 
distinction between Dheds and Bhangis. There is no 
difference between them. Even in normal times their 
occupation is as honourable as that of lawyers or 
Government servants. 

You should cease to accept leavings from plates 
however clean they may be represented to be. Receive 

58 

to ‘untouchables’ 

59 

grain only — good, sound grain, not rotten grain, and 
that too only if it is courteously offered. If you are 
able to do all I have asked you to do, you will secure 
your emancipation, not in four or five months, but in 
so many days. 

The Hindus are not sinful by nature — they are 
sunk in ignorance. Untouchability must be extinct in 
this very year. Two of the strongest desires that keep 
me in flesh and bone are the emancipation of the 
untouchables and the protection of the cow. When 
these two desires are fulfilled, there is Swaraj, and 
therein lies my own moksha . May God give you 
strength to work out your salvation. 

[From a speech at the Suppressed Classes Conference in 

Ahmedabad] 

Young India , 4-5-1921, p. 144 

Just one word at this great meeting to Harijan 
brothers and sisters who may be present. You cannot 
be free from this self-purification. You, too, have to 
bring your own sacrifice to this altar and that con¬ 
sists in the strict observance of the laws of sanitation 
— internal and external, and secondly, in the giving 
up of carrion-and beef-eating, wherever that habit 
still persists. In every part of the civilized world car¬ 
rion is abhorred. It is considered unfit for human 
consumption. And no one can call himself a Hindu 
and partake of beef. Sacredness of the cow and her 
worship are an integral part of Hinduism. Thirdly, 
I would ask every Harijan, man and woman present 
here, to give up the habit of drinking. Let no Harijan 
say to himself or herself or to me that many Savarna 
Hindus also drink. I would beseech you as a fellow 
Harijan by choice to shun all vices of Savarna 

60 

THE SIN OF UNTOUCHABILITY 

Hindus. In spite of all the reparation that Savarna 
Hindus may make to you, in spite of all the repen¬ 
tance they may show in the presence of God, after all, 
in the ultimate resort, your salvation will rest with 
yourselves. 

[From a speech in Bangalore] 

Harijan, 19-1-1934, pp. 4-5 

CHAPTER 15 

SOME PERTINENT QUESTIONS 

1. What are the practical steps to be taken to 
remove untouchability ? 

(a) To open to untouchables all public schools, 
temples and roads that are open to non-Brahmanas 
and are not exclusively devoted to any particular 
caste. 

(b) For caste Hindus to open schools for their 
children, to dig wells for them where they are in need 
and to render them all personal service that they 
may need, e.g. to carry on temperance and hygiene 
reform among them and to provide them with medi¬ 
cal aid. 

2. What would be the religious status of the 
untouchables when the ban of untouchability is 
completely removed? 

The religious status would be the same as that 
of the caste Hindus. They will therefore be classed as 
Shudras instead of Ati-Shudras. 

3. What would be the relation between the 
untouchable and the high caste orthodox Brahmana, 
when untouchability is removed? 

SOME PERTINENT QUESTIONS 

61 

The same as with non-Brahmana Hindus. 

4. Do you advocate inter-mingling of castes? 

I would abolish all castes and would keep the four 
divisions. 

5. Why should not the untouchables build 
temples for their own worship, without interfering 
with the existing temples? 

The ‘higher’ castes have not left them much 
capacity for such enterprise. It is the wrong way of 
looking at the question to say that they interfere with 
our temples. We the so-called higher caste men 
have to do our duty by admitting them to the temples 
common to all Hindus. 

6. Are you an advocate of communal represen¬ 
tation, and do you hold that the untouchables must 
have representation in all administrative bodies? 

I am not. But if the untouchables are purposely 
shut out by the influential castes, it would be an 
improper exclusion barring the road to Swaraj. My 
disapproval of communal representation does not 
mean exclusion of any community from represent¬ 
ation but on the contrary, it lays the burden on 
the represented commnnities to see to the proper 
representation of the unrepresented or inadequately 
represented communities. 

7. Are you a believer in the efficacy of Varna- 
shrama Dharma? 

Yes. But there is today a travesty of Varna, no 
trace of Ashrama and a misrepresentation of Dharma. 
The whole system needs to be revised and brought 
in unison with the latest discoveries in the field of 
religion. 

8. Don’t you believe that India is Karmabhumi, 
and that everybody born here is endowed with wealth 

62 

THE SIN OF UNTOUCHABILITY 

and intelligence, social status and religious aspirations 
according to his good or ill deeds in his previous birth ? 

Not in the sense the correspondent means. For 
everybody everywhere reaps as he sows. But India 
is essentially Karmabhumi (Land of Duty) in con¬ 
tradistinction to Bhogabhumi (Land of Enjoyment). 

9. Is not education and reform among the un¬ 
touchables a primary condition to be fulfilled ere one 
can begin to talk of the removal of untouchability ? 

There can be no reform or education among the 
untouchables without the removal of untouchability. 

10. Is it not natural and just as it should be, that 
non-drunkards avoid drunkards, and that vegetarians 
avoid non-vegetarians? 

Not necessarily. A teetotaller would regard it as 
his duty to associate with his drunkard brother for 
the purpose of weaning him from the evil habit. So 
may a vegetarian seek out a non-vegetarian. 

11. Is it not true, that a pure man (in the sense 
that he is a teetotaller and vegetarian), easily becomes 
an impure man (in the sense that he becomes a drunk- 
kard and non-vegetarian), when he is made to mingle 
with men, who drink, and kill, and eat animals? 

A man who, being unconscious of the wrong, 
drinks wine and eats flesh foods, is not necessarily an 
impure man. But I can understand the possibility of 
evil resulting from one being made to mingle with a 
corrupt person. In our case, however, there is no case 
of making anyone associate with untouchables. 

12. Is it not owing to the above fact that a 
certain class of orthodox Brahmanas do not mingle 
with the other castes (including the untouchables) 
but constitute themselves into a separate class, and live 
together for their spiritual uplift? 

< 

SOME PERTINENT QUESTIONS 

63 

It must be a poor spirituality that requires to be 
locked up in a safe. Moreover the days are gone 
when men used to guard their virtue by permanent 
isolation. 

13. Would you not be interfering with the re¬ 
ligions and caste-system (Varnashrama Dharma) of 
India whatever may be the bad or good points of the 
above system and religions, if you advocate the removal 
of untouchability ? 

How do I interfere with anything or anybody by 
mere advocacy of a reform ? Interference there would 
be, if I were to advocate removal of untouchability by 
the use of force against those who retain untouchability. 

14. Would you not be guilty of doing Himsa to 
the orthodox Brahmanas if you interfere with their 
religious beliefs without convincing them in the first 
instance ? 

I cannot be guilty of Himsa to the orthodox Brah¬ 
manas as I do not interefere with their religious belief 
except through conviction. 

15. Are not the Brahmanas guilty of untouchabi¬ 
lity, when they do not touch, dine with or marry the 
various other castes, leaving alone the untouchables? 

Brahmanas are guilty of the sin if they refuse to 
‘touch5 the other castes. 

16. Does it satisfy the hunger of the untouch¬ 
able when he is made to parade Brahmana Agraharams, 
in the exercise of his right as a man ? 

Man does not live by bread alone. Many prefer 
self-respect to food. 

17. Does not Satyagraha in this direction lead 
to violence, seeing that the untouchables are not 
so well educated as to understand the full doctrine of 

N 

64 

THE SIN OF UNTOUCHABILITY 

non-violent non-co-operation, and also seeing that the 
Brahmana cares more for his religion than for politics ? 

If reference is to Vykom, experience shows that 
the untouchable has shown amazing self-restraint. The 
latter part of the question suggests the possibility of 
violence by the Brahmanas concerned. I should be 
sorry if they resort to violence. They would then 
have shown, in my opinion, not regard for religion, but 
ignorance of and contempt for religion. 

18. Do you advocate that all should become 
equal, without any distinction of caste, race, creed or 
avocation ? 

Such should be the case in the eye of the law in 
the matter of elementary human rights, even as, ir¬ 
respective of caste, race, creed or colour, we have certain 
things in common, e.g. hunger, thirst etc. 

19. Would that supreme philosophical truth be 
of any use in the field of practical politics, to the average 
Grihastha or householder, seeing that only great souls, 
who have come to the end of their cycle of Karma, 
could realize and practise that supreme philosophical 
truth, and not the ordinary Grihastha, who has only 
to follow what the Rishis have ordained, and in that 
following, get discipline which consequently leads to 
release from birth and death? 

No such Supreme philosophical truth5 is involved 
in the recognition of the simple truth that no human 
being is to be regarded as untouchable by reason of his 
birth. The truth is so simple that it is recognized all 
over the world except by orthodox Hindus. I have 
questioned the statement that the Rishis taught the 
doctrine of untouchability as we practise it. 

Young India , 5-2-1925, pp. 45-6 

CHAPTER 16 

WHY HARIJAN ? 

The other day a friend suggested to me that the 
word ‘Harijan5 (man of God) be substituted for the 
word Antyaja (the last-born) that is being used for 
untouchables. It was a word used by the great saint 
Narasinha Mehta, who by the by belonged to the 
Nagar Brahmana community and who defied the 
whole community by claiming the untouchables as 
his own. I am delighted to adopt that word which is 
sanctified by having been used by such a great saint, 
but it has for me a deeper meaning than you may 
imagine. The untouchable, to me, is, compared to 
us, really a Harijan — a man of God, and we are 
Durjan (men of evil). For whilst the untouchable has 
toiled and moiled and dirtied his hands, so that we 
may live in comfort and cleanliness, we have delighted 
in suppressing him. W e are solely responsible for all 
the shortcomings and faults that we lay at the door of 
these untouchables. It is still open to us to be Harijan 
ourselves, but we can only do so by heartily repenting 
of our sin against them. 

Young India , 6-8-1931, p. 204 

Harijan means ‘a man of God5. All the religions 
of the world describe God pre-eminently as the friend of 
the friendless, help of the helpless and protector of the 
weak. The rest of the world apart, in India who can 
be more friendless, helpless or weaker than the forty 
million or more Hindus of India who are classified as 
untouchables ? If, therefore, any body of people can 

65 

66 

THE SIN OF UNTOUCHABILITY 

be fitly described as men of God, they are surely these 
helpless, friendless and despised people. Hence in the 
pages of Mavajivan , I have always adopted Harijan as 
the name signifying untouchables. Not that the change 
of name brings about any change of status, but one may 
at least be spared the use of terms which is itself one of 
reproach. When caste Hindus have of their own 
inner conviction and, therefore, voluntarily, got rid 
of the present day untouchability, we shall all be called 
Harijans; for according to my humble opinion, caste 
Hindus will then have found favour with God and 
may therefore, be fitly described as His men. 

Harijan, 11-2-1933, p. 7 

CHAPTER 17 

HARIJAN v. NON-HARIJAN 

cRather than do constructive work among Hari¬ 
jans, will it not be better to create intense dissatis¬ 
faction amongst them with their condition and thus 
promote such self-help as they can generate among 
themselves? It is no use your trying to convert the 
Savarnas.5 This was one of the questions that was 
asked at a meeting of workers. As it is an important 
question, it is as well to give the gist of the answer 
given by me at the meeting. The question betrays 
ignorance of the whole scope of the movement. To 
create dissatisfaction among the Harijans can bring no 
immediate relief to them and can only tend to per¬ 
petuate a vicious division amongst Hindus. The 
object of the movement is to do away with this utterly 
unnatural division and to secure for Harijans the 

HARIJAN V. NON-HARIJAN 

67 

simple justice to which they are entitled at the hands 
of Savarna Hindus. Thus the movement is one of 
repentance and reparation. Hence it is confined, on 
the one hand, to constructive work among Harijans 
and, on the other, to conversion of Savarnas by per¬ 
suasion, arguments and above all, by correct conduct 
on the part of the reformers. 

Harijan, 15-6-1934, p. 140 

Untouchability will not be removed by the force 
even of law. It can only be removed when the 
majority of Hindus realize that it is a crime against 
God and man and are ashamed of it. In other words, 
it is a process of conversion, i.e. purification, of the 
Hindu heart. The aid of law has to be invoked when 
it hinders or interferes with the progress of the reform 
as when, in spite of the willingness of the trustees and 
the temple-going public, the law prohibits the opening 
of a particular temple. 

Harijan, 23-9-1939, p. 280 

0^ : Harijans are legally entitled to send their 
children to many educational institutions as also to 
draw water from public wells. But public sentiment 
still militates against this being put into practice. 
Should Harijans resort to the law courts for justice in 
these matters or wait patiently until the caste Hindus 
are converted? 

A : Where there is no danger of violence being 
done to them, the Harijans should exercise their legal 
right and where necessary, resort to law courts. 
Harijan workers must continue agitation among 
caste Hindus and not rest content with mere legal 
rights. 

N 

68 

THE SIN OF UNTOUCHABILITY 

Q, : Is it not essential to reform the insanitary 
methods employed by sweepers for cleaning latrines 
and scavenging? 

A : It is most necessary. What is more, until this 
is done the condition of sweepers will remain pitiable. 
To this end it is the duty of Harijan workers and 
caste Hindus to do sweepers’ work themselves. No 
caste Hindu will employ the methods used by sweepers. 
He will do the work scientifically. For example, he 
will never remove excreta in a basket or carry it on his 
head; he will cover excreta with dry earth and remove 
it in a metal vessel. He will avoid touching dirt with 
his hands as far as possible; he will clean the vessels 
with water and a rod ; he will bathe immediately after 
doing the work; he will wear special clothes when 
scavenging. These reforms do not cost much. They 
require intelligence, hard work, and love of an ideal. 
We may not relegate sweepers’ work to one particular 
class. Therefore all should learn it in the same way 
as cooking. Each person should be his own sweeper. 
If this ideal were to be put into practice in society, the 
miserable condition of sweepers would at once be 
rectified. 

Harijan, 10-5-1942, pp. 151-52 

c 

CHAPTER 18 

SEPARATE ELECTORATES FOR 
UNTOUCHABLES 

It seems to have been represented that I am op¬ 
posed to any representation of the untouchables on 
the legislatures. This is a travesty of the truth. What 
I have said and what I must repeat is that I am opposed 
to their special representation. I am convinced that 
this can do them no good and may do much harm. 
But the Congress is wedded to adult franchise. There¬ 
fore, millions of them can be placed on the voters5 
roll. It is impossible to conceive that with untoucha- 
bility fast disappearing, nominees of these voters can 
be boycotted by the others. But that these people 
need more than election to the legislatures is protection 
from social and religious persecution. Custom, which 
is often more powerful than law, has brought them to 
a degradation of which every thinking Hindu has need 
to feel ashamed and to do penance. I should, there¬ 
fore, have the most drastic legislation rendering criminal 
all the special persecution to which these fellow- 
countrymen of mine are subjected by the so-called 
superior classes. Thank God the conscience of the 
Hindu has been stirred and untouchability will soon 
be a relic of our sinful past. 

The Nation’’ s Voice, 1932, p. 40 

I am certain that the question of separate electo¬ 
rates for the untouchables is a modern manufacture of 
a Satanic Government. The only thing needed is to 
put them on the voters5 list, and provide for fundamental 
rights for them in the Constitution. In case they are 

69 

70 

THE SIN OF UNTOUCHABILITY 

unjustly treated and their representative is deliberately 
excluded they would have the right to special Election 
Tribunal which would give them complete protection. 
It should be open to these Tribunals to order the un¬ 
seating of an elected candidate and election of the 
excluded man. 

Separate electorates to the untouchables will en¬ 
sure them bondage in perpetuity. The Musalmans 
will never cease to be Musalmans by having separate 
electorates. Do you want the untouchables to remain 
untouchables for ever? Well, the separate electorates 
would perpetuate the stigma. What is needed is 
destruction of untouchability and when you have done 
it, the bar sinister which has been imposed by an in¬ 
solvent superior class upon an inferior class will be 
destroyed. When you have destroyed the bar sinister, 
to whom will you give the separate electorates ? Look 
at the history of Europe. Have you got separate 
electorates for the working classes or women? With 
adult franchise, you give the untouchables complete 
security. Even the orthodox Hindus would have to 
approach them for votes. 

[From a speech at the Indian Students’ Majlis in London] 

Young India , 12-11-1931, p. 355 

CHAPTER 19 

UNTOUCHABILITY AND INTER-DINING 

Inter-drinking, inter-dining, inter-marrying, I 
hold, are not essential for the promotion of the spirit 
of democracy. I do not contemplate under a most 
democratic constitution a universality of manners 
and customs about eating, drinking and marrying. 
We shall have to seek unity in diversity, and I decline 
to consider it a sin for a man not to drink or eat with 
any and everybody. These are disciplinary restraints 
which are not in themselves bad. Carried to ridicul¬ 
ous extremes, they may become harmful, and if the 
motive is one of arrogation of superiority, the restraint 
becomes an indulgence, and therefore hurtful. But as 
time goes forward, and new necessities and occasions 
arise, the custom regarding inter-drinking, inter-dining, 
and inter-marrying, will require cautious modifications 
or rearrangement. 

Young India, 8-12-1920, p. 4 

[The following are extracts from a free rendering of Gan- 
dhiji’s speech at the Untouchability Conference held at Bel- 
gaum during the Congress Week in December 1924:] 

I do not regard inter-dining and inter-marriage 
as essential to the removal of untouchability. 

The religion to which I belong prescribes for our 
observance Maryada Dharma. The Rishis of old 
carried on exhaustive researches through meditation 
and as a result of the researches they discovered some 
great truths, such as have no parallel perhaps in any 
other religion. One of these was that they regarded 

71 

72 

THE SIN OF UNTOUCHABILITY 

certain kinds of foods as injurious for the spiritual 
well-being of man. So they interdicted their use. 
Now suppose some one had to travel abroad and live 
among strange people with different customs and 
standards as regards their diet. Knowing as they 
did how compelling sometimes the force of social cus¬ 
toms of the people among whom men lived was, they 
promulgated Maryada Dharma to help one in such 
emergencies. 

Though, however^ I believe in Maryada Dharma, 
I do not regard it as an essential part of Hinduism. 
I can even conceive a time when these restrictions 
might be abolished with impunity. But the reform 
contemplated in the untouchability movement does 
not obliterate the restriction as to inter-dining and 
inter-marrying. I cannot recommend wholesale aboli¬ 
tion of these restrictions to the public, even at the risk 
of being charged with hypocrisy and inconsistency. 
For instance, I let my son dine freely in Musalman 
households because I believe he can take sufficient care 
as to what to take and what not to take. I myself have 
no scruples in taking my food in Musalman households 
because I have my own strict rules about my diet. 

Young India , 22-1-1925, p. 29 

Personally I am not sure that inter-dining is a neces¬ 
sary reform. At the same time I recognize the tendency 
towards breaking down the restriction altogether. I 
can find reasons for and against the restriction. I 
would not force the pace. I do not regard it as a sin 
for a person not to dine with another nor do I regard 
it as sinful if one advocates and practises inter-dining. 
I should, however, resist the attempt to break- down the 
restriction in disregard of the feelings of others. On 

UNTOUCH ABILITY AND INTER-MARRIAGE 73 

the contrary I would respect their scruples in the mat¬ 
ter. 

Toung India , 19-3-1925, p. 94 

£U Can the members of the Harijan Sevak 
Sangh refuse to inter-dine with untouchables ? Have 
your views on this question undergone any change ? 

A : At one time I did say that inter-dining was not 
an essential part of the campaign for the removal of 
untouchability. Personally, I was for it. Today I 
encourage it. In fact, today I even go further. 

Harijafi, 28-7-1946, p. 234 

CHAPTER 20 

UNTOUCHABILITY AND INTER-MARRIAGE 

Marrying and dining are matters of individual 
concern. No one has a right to ask another to choose 
a girl for wife or to dine with anybody against his will. 
But if a person refuses to take food touched by another 
person on the ground of untouchability or inferiority, 
he is observing untouchability. In other words, un¬ 
touchability cannot constitute any ground for restraint 
on inter-dining or marriage. 

Harijan , 23-3-1934, p. 44 

Though there is in Varnashrama no prohibition 
against inter-marriage and inter-dining, there can be 
no compulsion. It must be left to the unfettered 
choice of the individual as to where he or she will 
marry or dine. 

Harijan , 16-11-1935, p. 316 

If an educated Harijan girl marries a caste Hindu, 
the couple ought to devote themselves to the service 

N 

74 

THE SIN OF UNTOUCH ABILITY 

of Harijans. Self-indulgence can never be the object 
of such a marriage. That will be improper. I can 
never encourage it. It is possible that a marriage entered 
into with the best of intentions turns out to be a failure. 
No one can prevent such mishaps. Even if one Harijan 
girl marries a caste Hindu with a high character it 
will do good to both the Harijans and caste Hindus. 
They will set up a good precedent and if the Harijan 
girl is really worthy, she will spread her fragrance far 
and wide and encourage others to copy her example. 
Society will cease to be scared by such marriages. 
They will see for themselves that there is nothing 
wrong in them. If children born of such a union 
turn out to be good, they will further help to remove 
untouchability. Every reform moves at the proverbial 
snail’s pace. To be dissatisfied with this slowness of 
progress betrays ignorance of the way in which reform 
works. 

It is certainly desirable that caste Hindu girls 
should select Harijan husbands. I hesitate to say that 
it is better. That would imply that women are inferior 
to men. I know that such inferiority complex is there 
today. For his reason I would agree that at present 
the marriage of a caste Hindu girl to a Harijan is better 
than that of a Harijan girl to a caste Hindu. If I had 
my way I would persuade all caste Hindu girls com¬ 
ing under my influence to select Harijan husbands. 
That it is most difficult I know from experience. Old 
prejudices are difficult to shed. One cannot afford to 
laugh at such prejudices either. They have to be 
overcome with patience. And if a girl imagines that 
her duty ends by marrying a Harijan and falls a prey 
to the temptaion of self-indulgence after marriage, 
the last state would be worse than the first. The 

WHO WILL SCAVENGE? 

75 

final test of every marriage is how far it develops the 
spirit of service in the parties. Every mixed marriage 
will tend in varying degrees to remove the stigma 
attached to such marriages. Finally there will he 
only one caste, known by the beautiful name Bhangi, 
that is to say, the reformer or remover of all dirt. 
Let us all pray that such a happy day will dawn soon. 

Harijan , 7-7-1946, p. 213 

CHAPTER 21 

WHO WILL SCAVENGE ? 

In its inception, untouchability was a rule of sani¬ 
tation, and still is in all parts of the world outside 
India. That is to say, an unclean person or thing is 
untouchable, but immediately his or its uncleanliness 
is shed, he or it is no longer untouchable. Therefore, 
a person who is to attend to scavenging, whether it 
is a paid Bhangi or an unpaid mother, they are unclean 
until they have washed themselves clean of their un¬ 
clean work. If, instead of being regarded as untouch¬ 
able for ever, the Bhangi was treated as a brother and 
was given an opportunity and even made to become 
clean after performing an unclean service for society, 
he should be as acceptable as any other member of 
that society. Corporations can, therefore, lead the 
way in this matter, but they will not unless the citizens 
insist. 

Harijan , 11-2-1933, p. 8 

When untouchability has disappeared altogether, 
it is not feared that Bhangis will refuse to do sanitary 
work, if they are properly paid and well treated. 

76 

THE SIN OF UNTOUCHABILITY 

Sanitary work is done well enough, if not better, in 
other parts of the world. But assuming that the 
Bhangis, on the bar sinister being removed, refuse to 
do our scavenging, we must be prepared to do it our¬ 
selves. The removal of untouchability implies that 
there is no sin or shame in cleaning for other people, 
even as it is no sin for a mother to clean her baby or 
for a paid nurse to clean her or his patient. 

Young India , 22-6-1921, p. 199 

I would advocate bye-laws requiring authorized 
receptacles, brooms, etc. which would avoid physical 
handling of dirt, and would also prescribe a simple 
working costume. Inspectors or overseers will be 
trained for this humane and sanitary work instead of 
being expected to exact work anyhow. The result 
of the present system is maximum of insanitation and 
minimum of work plus bribery, corruption and bad 
manners. 

Harijan, 6-10-1946, p. 340 

CHAPTER 22 

THE IDEAL BHANGI 

The ideal Bhangi of my conception would be a 
Brahmana par excellence , possibly even excel him. It 
is possible to envisage the existence of a Bhangi with¬ 
out a Brahmana. But without the former the latter 
could not be. It is the Bhangi who enables society to 
live. A Bhangi does for society what a mother does for 
her baby. A mother washes her baby of the dirt and 
insures his health. Even so the Bhangi protects and 
safeguards the health of the entire community by 
maintaining sanitation for it. The Brahmana’s duty is 

THE IDEAL BHANGI 

77 

to look after the sanitation of the soul, the Bhangi’s 
that of the body of society. But there is a difference in 
practice; the Brahmana generally does not live up to 
his duty, the Bhangi dobs willy nilly no doubt. Society 
is sustained by several services. The Bhangi constitutes 
the foundation of all services. 

And yet our woebegone Indian society has bran¬ 
ded the Bhangi as a social Pariah, set him down at 
the bottom of the scale, held him fit only to receive 
kicks and abuse, a creature who must subsist on the 
leavings of the caste people and dwell on the dung- 
heap. He is without a friend, his very name has be¬ 
come a term of reproach. This is shocking. It is per¬ 
haps useless to seek the why and wherefore of it. I 
certainly am unaware of the origin of the inhuman 
conduct, but I know this much that by looking down 
upon the Bhangi we — Hindus, Musalmans, Christians 
and all — have deserved the contempt of the whole 
world. Our villages have today become seats of dirt 
and insanitation, and the villagers come to an early 
and untimely death. If only we had given due recog¬ 
nition to the status of the Bharigi as equal to that of a 
Brahmana as in fact and justice he deserves, our vill- 
lages today no less than their inhabitants would have 
looked a picture of cleanliness and order. We would 
have to a large extent been free from the ravages of 
a host of diseases which directly spring from our un¬ 
cleanliness and lack of sanitary habits. 

I therefore make bold to state without any man¬ 
ner of hesitation or doubt that not till the invidious 
distinction between the Brahmana and the Bhangi is 
removed, will our society enjoy health, prosperity 
and peace and be happy. 

28 

THE SIN OF UNTOUCHABILITY 

What qualities should such an honoured servant 
of society exemplify in his person ? In my opinion an 
ideal Bhangi should have a thorough knowledge of 
the principles of sanitation. He should know how a 
right kind of latrine is constructed, and the correct 
way of cleaning it. He should know how to overcome 
and destroy the odour of excreta and the various dis¬ 
infectants to render them innocuous. He should like¬ 
wise know the process of converting night-soil and 
urine into manure. 

But that is not all. My ideal Bhangi would know 
the quality of night-soil and urine. He would keep a 
close watch on these and give a timely warning to the 
individual concerned. Thus he will give a timely 
notice of the results of his examination of the excreta. 
That presupposes a scientific knowledge of the require¬ 
ments of his profession. He would likewise be an autho¬ 
rity on the subject of disposal of night-soil in small vil¬ 
lages as well as big cities, and his advice and guidance 
in the matter would be sought for and freely given to 
society. It goes without saying that he would have the 
usual learning necessary for reaching the standard 
here laid down for his profession. Such an ideal 
Bhangi, while deriving his livelihood from his occu¬ 
pation, would approach it only as a sacred duty. In 
other words he would not dream of amassing wealth 
out of it. He would consider himself responsible for the 
proper removal and disposal of all the dirt and night- 
soil within the area which he serves, and regard the 
maintenance of healthy and sanitary condition within 
the same as the summum bonum of his existence. 

How may we have this ideal Bhangi? To clothe 
the Bhangi with the dignity and respect due to him 
is the especial task and privilege of the educated class. 

DISPOSAL OF CARCASSES 

79 

Some members of the class would first themselves 
master the science of sanitation to educate the Bhangis 
round them in the same. They would carefully study 
their present condition and the causes underlying 
it and set themselves to the task of eradicating the same 
by dint of inexhaustible perseverance and patience that 
never looks back and knows no defeat. They would 
teach them the laws of cleanliness. Our Bhangis do 
not today possess even good brooms or other suitable 
means for the removal of night-soil. The latrines them¬ 
selves are wretched. The site round the Bhangi’s quar¬ 
ters is no better than a cesspool of dirt. All this can 
only go if some of the educated class give themselves 
up to the task of redeeming the Bhangi from his pre¬ 
sent plight and thus redeeming society from its terrible 
insanitation. Surely this is work enough to satisfy 
the highest ambition of one who has the spirit of ser¬ 
vice in him. 

Harijan, 28-11-1936, p. 336 

CHAPTER 23 

DISPOSAL OF CARCASSES 

There are several sections among Harijans, e.g. 
the Chakkiliyans and Madigas in South India and 
Chamars in Gujarat, who remove and dispose of 
dead cattle and eat their flesh. Disposal of dead cattle 
is a sacred obligation and occupation. But the eating 
of carrion is a most filthy habit, regarded as one of 
the heinous sins in Hindu scriptures, and it is essen¬ 
tial that at this hour of self-purification our Harijan 
brethren should be helped to get rid of this habit. 
But they plead their inability to do so for various 

80 

THE SIN OF UNTOUCHABILITY 

reasons. c ‘It is a habit to which we have been accus¬ 
tomed for ages/5 they say, “and now it is a positive 
delicacy which we cannot forgo, anymore than you 
can do without your finest delicacies. You should 
also know that removal of dead cattle is an obligation 
imposed upon us and we may not shirk it without 
risking the wrath of the Mahajans; you know, per¬ 
haps, the carrion is part of the remuneration for the 
removal. We are thus tied down to carrion-eating for 
three reasons.55 

The argument deserves consideration. Written 
and spoken appeals will be of no avail ; we must show 
them the way out. We should first acquaint ourselves 
with the conditions obtaining in various parts of the 
country regarding the removal of dead cattle, and have 
them altered as circumstances may require ; we should 
supervise the actual skinning and other attendant 
processes and see to the proper disposal of the remains. 
The removal must be made conditional on a promise 
not to eat the carrion, and no one should be com¬ 
pelled to remove dead cattle. 

This work demands a fair number of volunteers. 
They must learn the art of skinning dead cattle in a 
clean manner and teach it to the Harijans who are 
doing it today in the old fashion. The carcasses should 
not be dragged as at present, as it damages the hide 
and decreases its value. They should be lifted and 
removed in an expeditious and efficient manner. The 
hide-curers will willingly adopt the new method, but 
not until the so-called high caste people have mas-, 
tered it. 

The way in which dead cattle are disposed of to¬ 
day is most uneconomical and entails a loss of crores 

DISPOSAL OF CARCASSES 

81 

of rupees to the country. Every bit of the carcass must 
be made proper use of. Much of it is wasted today. 
The hide, the bones, the entrails and the flesh are all 
useful and ought to be properly utilized. The hide is 
being put to use of a sort. The bones are mostly was¬ 
ted. They should be carefully collected and turned 
scientifically into manure. The entrails are utilized 
for gut etc., but there is room enough for improve¬ 
ment. The flesh should be saved from the filthy use it 
is turned to and must be made to yield fat, which will 
be valuable for manufacturing grease for factories. 
The remains should finally be converted into manure 
or buried deep. If volunteers make a point of re¬ 
maining present throughout all these processes, the 
men will easily take to the new departure and will 
stop eating carrion. 

There is nowhere any room for compulsion. 
Where the hide-curers are not ready for change, they 
must be left undisturbed. They are no more bound to 
remove the dead cattle than the caste organizations 
are bound to get them removed by them. It should 
be a matter of mutual adjustment. 

But the beginning must be made by the volun¬ 
teers supervising the processes, wherever, of course, 
the supervision is not resented. The supervision need 
not be delayed until the volunteers have first mas¬ 
tered the processes. Actual work-will be a training in 
itself. 

Municipalities and local bodies and States can im¬ 
mediately undertake the work of training volunteers in 
scientific skinning and hide-curing. This does need 
a little expense on buildings and experts. They should 
really have a training school for this purpose and 

82 

THE SIN OF UNTOU GH ABILITY 

invite philanthropic experts and veterinary surgeons 
for co-operation, suggestions and help. 

Harijan, 18-3-1933, p. 3 

CHAPTER 24 

DUTY OF INDIAN MUNICIPALITIES 

[Gandhiji wrote as follows in the Fifth Anniversary Number 
of the Calcutta Municipal Gazette dated 23rd November, 1929:] 

I have been asked by the Editor to answer the 
following questions for this Gazette: 

“What can Indian municipalities do in the mat¬ 
ter of . . . untouchability ?” My answer is as follows: 

In the matter of untouchability a municipality 
can help: 

First, by promoting the reform by insisting upon 
inspectors of municipal schools securing admission 
therein of a minimum number of untouchable boys 
and girls. 

Secondly, by opening model- schools specially for 
the instruction of untouchable children. 

Thirdly, by opening night-schools for grown-up 
untouchables. 

Fourthly, by providing proper housing accom¬ 
modation for all the untouchables in its employ. 

Fifthly, by inducing trustees of temples to open 
them to untouchables and where this is not possible, 
by building attractive temples in suitable places, spe¬ 
cially for the use of untouchables, but generally for 
public use, and encouraging the public to make use 
of those temples in common with the untouchables. 

DUTY OF INDIAN MUNICIPALITIES 83 

Sixthly, by giving grants to schools, temples, 
clubs, etc., that would specially cater for un¬ 
touchables. 

Untouchability is, perhaps the greatest evil that 
has crept into Hinduism. The nearest approach to it 
to be found in the West was untouchability of the 
J ews, who were confined to the ghettos. I do not know 
the historical origin of this disease. Socially it seems to 
have arisen from the desire of the so-called superior 
classes to isolate themselves from whom they regarded 
as inferior. It is the excrescence of Varnashrama 
Dharma which has been misrepresented as the caste 
system with which, as seen in the multitudinous 
castes of latter-day Hinduism, the original four divi¬ 
sions have little to do. 

Untouchability in its mildest form takes the shape 
of not touching or having any social inter-course 
with the untouchable. In its extreme form it be¬ 
comes unapproachability and even invisibility. The 
approach of a man within a defined distance or the 
very sight in some parts of the extreme South pol¬ 
lutes the superior classes. The unapproachables and 
the invisibles are very few in number, whereas the 
untouchables are roughly estimated at sixty millions. 
In my own opinion this is a highly exaggerated esti¬ 
mate. 

Though I regard myself as a staunch Hindu 
believing in and having great veneration for the 
Vedas and the other Hindu religious books, and 
though I claim, not as a scholar but as a religiously 
minded man, to have made a serious attempt to 
understand the Hindu scriptures, I can discover no 
warrant for this brutal doctrine of untouchability in 
it. Save for a few texts of doubtful authority in the 

84 

THE SIN OF UNTOUCHABILITY 

Smritis the whole doctrine of untouchability is utterly 
repugnant to the spirit of Hinduism whose glory con¬ 
sists in proclaiming non-violence to be the basis of 
religion and which lays down the bold formula that 
all life, including the meanest crawling beings, is one. 

But to a reformer like me this philosophical 
foundation of Hinduism affords but little comfort in 
the face of the cruel fact that professors of that reli¬ 
gion regard innumerable fellow being as beyond the 
pale of society solely on the ground of their birth in a 
particular group of men and women in every way like 
them. 

But this untouchability will soon be a thing of 
the past. Hindu society has become conscious of the 
hideous wrong done to man by this sinful doctrine. 
Hundreds of Hindu workers are devoting themselves 
to the uplift of these suppressed classes. Among them 
may be named the late Swami Shraddhanandji and 
the late Lala Lajpat Rai. These, however, may not be 
regarded as orthodox. Pandit Madan Mohan Mala- 
viyaji, who is accepted by all Hindus as an orthodox 
Hindu, has thrown in the weight of his great influence 
on the side of reform. Everywhere one sees the process 
of emancipation silently but surely and steadily going 
on. The so-called higher class Hindus are conducting 
schools and building hostels for them, giving them 
medical relief and serving them in a variety of ways. 
This effort is absolutely independent of the Govern¬ 
ment and is part of the process of purification that 
Hinduism is undergoing. Lastly, the Indian National 
Congress adopted removal of untouchability as a vital 
part of its constructive programme in 1920. It may 
not be superfluous to add that whilst untouchability 
is undoubtedly a grave social wrong, it has no legal 

HARIJAN EDUCATION 85 

sanction behind it. So far as I am aware, there is no 
legal disability against the untouchables. 

The reformer has still a stiff task before him in 
having to convert the masses to his point of view. The 
masses give intellectual assent to the reformer’s plea, 
but are slow to grant equality in practice to their out- 
caste brethren. Nevertheless, untouchability is doom¬ 
ed, and Hinduism is saved. And, as I have indicated 
above, our municipalities can do much to bring about 
this salvation. 

CHAPTER 25 

HARIJAN EDUCATION 

Common schools and wells should be opened 
where the existing ones are not available for Harijans 
either owing to the violent and successful opposition 
of the neighbours or some other unavoidable cause. 
Harijans cannot be left uncared for in matters of 
necessary services till public opinion has ripened. If 
there is a clearly awakened body of Hindus who have 
the same feeling towards Harijans as if they were their 
own kith and kin, they will not wait for public opinion 
to consolidate itself before taking action. They will 
do their best to supply pure water and good educa¬ 
tion to* their own newly found kith and kin. 

There is one special consideration in favour of 
opening what may be called preparatory schools for 
Harijan children. . . . We want every one of these 
children to learn to live in a clean and decent manner. 
We want them all to attend the common public 

86 

THE SIN OF UNTOUCHABILITY 

schools. Therefore, preparatory schools for them are 
an absolute essential if we mean honest business. 

Harijan, 4-3-1933, p. 4 

Preliminary training should consist in teaching 
Harijan children manners, good speech and good 
conduct. A Harijan child sits anyhow; dresses any¬ 
how; his eyes, ears, teeth, hair, nails, nose are often 
full of dirt; many never know what it is to have a 
wash. I remember what I did when in 1915, I picked 
up a Harijan boy at Tranquebar and took him with 
me to Kochrab where the Ashram was then situa¬ 
ted. I had him shaved. He was then thoroughly wash¬ 
ed and given a simple Dhoti, vest and a cap. In a few 
minutes in appearance he became indistinguishable 
from any child from a cultured home. His head, eyes, 
ears, nose were thoroughly cleaned. His nails which 
had become repositories of dirt were pared and 
cleaned. His feet which were laden with dust were 
rubbed and cleaned out. Such a process has to be gone 
through every day, if need be, with Harijan children 
attending schools. Their lesson should begin for the 
first three months with teaching them cleanliness. 
They should be taught also how to eat properly, 
though as I write this sentence I recall what I had 
seen during the walking pilgrimage in Orissa. Hari¬ 
jan boys and grown-ups, who were fed at some of 
the stages, ate with much better cleanness than the 
others who soiled their fingers, scattered about the sav¬ 
ings and left their places in a messy condition. Hari- 
jans had no savings and their dishes were left thorough¬ 
ly clean. Their fingers whilst they were eating, 
were after every morsel taken licked clean. I know 
that all Harijan children do not eat so cleanly as the 
particular ones I have described. 

HARIJAN WELFARE WORK 

87 

If this preliminary training is to be given in all 
Harijan schools, pamphlets giving detailed instructions 
for teachers in their languages should be prepared and 
distributed, and inspectors of schools be required 
during their inspection to examine teachers and pupils 
on this head and to send full reports of the progress 
made in this direction. 

This programme involves care in the selection 
of teachers and the training of the present staff. But 
all this is well worth the attention, if the Sangh is to 
discharge its trust by the thousands of Harijan chil¬ 
dren that are brought under its care. 

Harijan , 18-5-1935, p. 108 

CHAPTER 26 

HARIJAN WELFARE WORK 

It is the obvious duty of Harijan workers to carry 
on internal reform to the extent it is possible even in 
the face of the existing state of things. 

Harijan workers should, therefore, devote all 
their energy to: 

(i) Promotion of cleanliness and hygiene among 
the Harijans. 

(ii) Improved methods of carrying on what are 
known as unclean occupations, e.g., scavenging and 
tanning. 

(iii) Giving up of carrion and beef if not meat 
altogether. 

(iv) Giving up of intoxicating liquors. 

(v) Inducing parents to send their children to 
day-schools wherever they are available, and parents 

83 

THE SIN OF UNTOU CHABILITY 

themselves to attend night-schools wherever such are 
opened. 

(vi) Abolition of untouchability among them¬ 
selves. 

Let me go through the items to indicate what is 
meant by them. A daily bath is necessary at least 
in our climate, and clean clothes are necessary under 
all climates. I know that water is not easily available 
in Harijan quarters. They have, as a rule, no access 
to public wells and tanks, and they are too poor to 
afford a change of clothing. It is not generally rea¬ 
lized that even a lotaful of water can give one a clean 
bath. This is done by thoroughly wetting a clean towel 
and vigorously rubbing the body, including the head 
all over, and then wiping with a dry towel. If the 
bath is taken daily, the wet towel after wringing out 
all the water from it can serve the purpose of drying 
the body. In this climate again, the same clothes can 
be easily washed and dried there and then, whilst one 
has merely the langoti on. 

I know that there is nothing new in what I am 
saying. And yet I have been obliged to explain these 
very elementary things to hundreds of workers. Even 
graduates have been found to be ignorant of these 
elementary aids to hygiene. 

As to the improved methods of scavenging, sel¬ 
fish, ignorant caste Hindus make it well-nigh im¬ 
possible to remove the night-soil in a decent condi¬ 
tion. The closets, because of the untouchability, are 
unclean beyond description. They are dark, and ill- 
ventilated, and so constructed that only a portion is 
somewhat capable of being cleaned, and that too 

HARIJAN WELFARE WORK 

89 

under filthy conditions. To use these closets is a posi¬ 
tive daily descent to hell, but for the beneficent climate 
many more thousands than already do would find an 
early cremation owing to the superstitious refusal to 
see one’s own faeces and to permit the untouchables 
or themselves to clean the interior of the closets. The 
Harijans who have to perform this very necessary 
social service can even in the existing unfavourable 
circumstances, at least have their bath immediately 
after the cleaning is done, and use plenty of dry earth 
for cleaning instead of just a little straw that they use. 

Being an expert scavenger that I claim to be, 
I could show many very cheap, efficient and thorough¬ 
ly clean methods of performing this service, especially 
if the villagers and city people would help. But I can¬ 
not deal with this interesting subject in this cursory 
statement. The curious may look up my writings on 
sanitation in general, and village sanitation in parti¬ 
cular. Scavengers should wear a professional dress, 
while they are doing the cleaning work. Every em¬ 
ployer or a group of employers can supply such a dress 
for his or their own scavengers. 

Glean tanning is a far more difficult proposition. 
Our tanners do not know the modern method of 
skinning carcasses nor of tanning. Tanning, 1 have 
here used in a comprehensive sense. The so-called 
higher classes having criminally neglected this useful 
body of their co-religionists and fellow-countrymen, 
the whole of the process, from the carrying of the car¬ 
cass to the dressing of the hide, is done in a crude 
manner resulting in the loss to the country of untold 
wealth and the production of inferior hide. 

Babu Madhusudan Das, who is a great philan¬ 
thropist and has himself learnt the modern processes 

90 

THE SIN OF UNTOUCHABILITY 

of tanning, prepared statistics to show what the coun¬ 
try was losing annually owing to the superstition of 
untouchability masquerading under the name of reli¬ 
gion. Harijan workers can learn the modern method 
and acquaint the tanners with it in so far as it is 
practicable. The scavengers should be taught 
resolutely not to accept the remains of the house 
holders’ daily food which are virtually thrown at 
them in the cruellest manner possible. Years of 

JL 

habit have dulled the aesthetic sense of the scavengers, 
and they see nothing wrong in eating the remains of 
another man’s dishes. They crave after what they 
regard as dainties from their employers’ dishes. I have 
known of Bhangis having removed their children from 
schools because the latter were taught not to touch 
these leavings and to be satisfied with the jowari or 
the bajri bread baked in their homes. 

Harijans should be induced to give up carrion 
and beef. As a vegetarian, I would like Harijans to 
give up, as many have done, meat altogether. But if 
they are not ready for this reform, they should be 
taught to give up carrion as being unhygienic, besides 
being taboo by the rest of mankind, and beef as being 
forbidden in Hinduism. I know that carrion is part of 
the price the tanners get for removing the carcasses. 
Dr. Ambedkar told me that in some places villagers 
beat those who had given up carrion, telling them 
that it was their religion to eat it! The fact was that 
they were afraid that if the tanners gave up carrion 
eating they would demand an equivalent price or give 
up removing dead cattle. Whatever the difficulty, 
carrion and beef must be given up. That one self- 
restraint will at once raise the Harijans in the esti¬ 
mation of the caste Hindus and make the task of 

HARIJAN WELFARE WORK 91 

caste reformers comparatively easy in the campaign 
against untouchability. 

Items four and five do not call for any remarks. 
They are self-explained. 

The last item is abolition of untouchability 
among the untouchables themselves. This is an urgent 
need. Removal of untouchability will become most 
difficult if this double untouchability is not removed 
with one sweep. It is an uphill task for Harijan refor¬ 
mers. But if they will realize that this movement is 
predominantly religious and designed to purge Hindu¬ 
ism of the uncleanness that has crept into it, they 
will have the necessary courage and self-confidence 
to carry out the great reform. 

It is needless for me to stress the point that wor¬ 
kers in such a movement mus^ be selfless and pure in 
character. I have given here a constructive programme 
that should satisfy the most ambitious reformer among 
Harijans and occupy the whole of his time and energy. 
But there are one or two things he and the Harijans 
may not do. During this period of grace, at any rate, 
no Harijan need fast against any one nor need Satya- 
graha be offered by them. Let them watch the caste 
Hindus who are on their trial and see what they do 
to remove the bar that separates the Harijans from 
them. Let them not engage in quarrels with local 
caste Hindus. Their behaviour should be* at all times 
courteous and dignified, much more so at this time. 
Religion can only be vindicated by self-suffering, 
never by violence done to the oppressors. Though 
there may be many things they may get by force, their 
credit will lie in getting their rights by the conversion 
of caste Hindus. And today they have ample reason 

92 

THE SIN OF UNTOUCHABILITY 

for deriving hope from the knowledge that there are 
tens of thousands of caste Hindus, who have a lively 
sense of their guilt and are straining every nerve to 
do reparation to Harijans. Let them have perfect 
confidence in the absolute justice of their cause and 
in the ability of self-suffering to win it. 

My Soul’s Agony, 14-11-1932, pp. 32-36 

CHAPTER 27 

REPLIES TO AN ORTHODOX HINDU 
LEADER’S QUESTIONNAIRE 

[The late Shri Ranchhoddas V. Patwari, ex-Dewan of Morvi 
(Saurashtra) , with whom Gandhiji had become acquainted early in 
his life and whom he held in high regard, addressed the following 
letter with a lengthy questionnaire to Gandhiji when the latter 
was conducting his anti-untouchability campaign from the 
Yeravda Central Jail in which he had been incarcerated in 1932. 
Both the letter and questionnaire were written by Shri Patwari 
in English:] 

My dear Mahatma Gandhi 

As settled in the course of our discussion on the 
7th instant, on the vexed question of the entry of the 
untouchables into temples, I have framed the fol¬ 
lowing questions with a view to clarify the whole posi¬ 
tion, in the ]^ope that you will be pleased to answer 
them : 

If I were to stay and see you at 2 p.m. I could 
not, in fairness, expect you to dictate off-hand the 
answers, and as you are hard pressed for time, you 
may take some time. As there is nothing confidential, 
there is no objection to the questions and answers 

REPLIES TO A HINDU LEADER’S QUESTIONNAIRE 93 

being sent to newspapers for publication. I shall feel 
thankful if a typed copy of answers is sent to me at 
Rajkot. 

Yours truly, 
R. V. Patwari 

Questions 

1. You desire that each and every Sanatani 
Hindu should form and express his opinion on this 
question according to the dictates of his conscience. 

2. Is it not a fact that there are thousands of 
people who believe that India cannot get real Swaraj 
without you? 

3. Is it not a fact that there are thousands of 
people who value your life more than what they consi¬ 
der to be their religion? 

4. Where was the need of announcing your 
firm resolve to fasl to death if the Guruvayur temple 
was not opened to the untouchables? 

5. Why did you not issue a referendum with¬ 
out taking such a vow? 

6. Did not the persons who were engaged in 
taking votes exploit your vow? 

7. Gan you correctly ascertain the percentage 
of voters who voted in favour of the entry on account 
of your vow before them? 

8. If your case is strong and the cause you 
advocate is just and reasonable, why have you an¬ 
nounced your vow to fast to death if His Excellency 
the Viceroy does not sanction the bill before him? 

9. Do you know that this vow is being exploi¬ 
ted for nourishing the agitation in favour of the bill 
being sanctioned? • 

94 

THE SIN OF UNTOUCHABILITY 

10. Are you prepared to give up your vow 
and issue a fresh referendum in connection with the 
Guruvayur temple? 

1 1 . Before issuing the referendum, did you 
frame definite rules as to who can rank as a bona fide 
worshipper of the deity for guidance of your men 
who were engaged in taking votes? 

12. Who can rank as a bona fide worshipper of 
the deity according to you? 

13. Did the persons, engaged in taking votes* 
ascertain by inquiry which of the voters were bona 
fide worshippers of the deity? 

14. Can you say that a Hindu who does not 
visit a temple even once a month for darshana and who 
does not pay a single farthing as bheta (present) or 
samagri (requisites for worship), can rank as a bona 
fide worshipper of the deity ? 

15. If the entry of the untouchables into temples 
depends on votes in a particular district, the condi¬ 
tion precedent is that definite rules should be framed 
as to who can be treated as a bona fide worshipper. 

16. Which of the temples would you treat as 
public ? 

17. Your parents were staunch followers of the 
Pushtimarga, (a Vaishnavite Sampradaya). Did 
they freely touch the untouchables? Would they 
allow them to enter into temples? 

18. You have never worn the sacred thread, 
viz. upavita. You wore a tulasi-kanthi (Vaishnava 
necklace of tulasi beads) when you went to England 
in 1886. When did you give up that kanthi ? 

19. Are you of the opinion that the wearing of 
a sacred thread or kanthi is not essential for a Sana- 
tani Hindu? 

REPLIES TO A HINDU LEADER’S QUESTIONNAIRE 95 

20. During your stay in England, did you take 
meals in hotels or in the house of an Englishman ? 

21. Are you of the opinion that a Hindu does 
not cease to be a Sanatani Hindu by this? 

22. Even now you have no objection to take 
the food prepared in European hotels or by a Chris¬ 
tian or a Mohammedan? 

23. Are you in favour of the priti-bhojans (inter- 
communal dinners) in which even the Brahmanas, 
Dheds, Bhangis, Chamars, Mohammedans and 
Christians dine together? 

24. Will you say that the Hindus who take 
part in such priti-bhojans can claim to be Sanatani 
Hindus ? 

25. Are you in favour of inter-marriages bet¬ 
ween the Brahmanas, Kshatriyas and Vaishyas on 
the one hand and the untouchables on the other? 

26. Do you keep any idol or any picture of 
Shrirama or Shrikrishna when you offer prayers in 
the morning and at night? 

27. Are you a staunch believer in idol-worship? 

28. Do you believe that it is necessary to go 
to a temple for darshana of the image for attaining 
emancipation and for acquiring supreme love for 
God ? 

29. How often have you visited the Hindu 
temples for the darshana of the idols during the last 
sixteen years? 

30. What amount have you sent as Bheta or* 
Samagri to temples^ from the funds collected by you? 

31. Do you believe that a Dhed, Bhangi or 
Chamar cannot attain emancipation or acquire su¬ 
preme love for God unless he gets an opportunity 
to go into the Hindu temples for darshana ? 

96 

THE SIN OF UNTOUCH ABILITY 

32. If yon think that idol- worship is essential 
for the untouchables, what if separate temples are built 
for them with the idols of Shrirama or Shrikrishna ? 

33. Do you think that the worship of an idol 
in a public temple is more efficacious than that of an 
idol installed in the temple built for untouchables? 

34. Has Mr. Kelappan or any Dhed, Bhangi 
or Chamar told you that he has such supreme love 
for the deity that he will lose his life if he does not 
get darshana in a temple of the Sanatanist? 

35. When you attended the Round Table Con¬ 
ference, were you under the impression that the popu¬ 
lation of the Dheds, Bhangis and Chamars, who are 
treated as untouchables, was six or seven crores? 

36. Were you under the same impression when 
you made a compromise with Mr. Ambedkar? 

37. Did you even take the trouble of studying 
the census with a view to ascertain the actual popu¬ 
lation of these three communities? 

38. Is it not a fact that the percentage of the 
population of such untouchables varies from 

to 4 per cent in Kathiawar and Gujarat? 

39. Have you even now ascertained the actual 
population of the three communities in India? 

40. Is it not a fact that lakhs of high-caste Hin¬ 
dus who are touchables became Mohammedans dur¬ 
ing the Mohammedan rule and Christians after the 
advent of the British rule? 

41. Can you give even approximately the num¬ 
ber of the untouchables who became either Moham¬ 
medans or Christians? 

42. Are you for allowing any Dhed, Bhangi or 
Chamar admission into the Hindu temples? If not, 
what conditions or restrictions would you suggest? 

REPLIES TO A HINDU LEADER’S QUESTIONNAIRE 97 

43. Who will frame those conditions and res¬ 
trictions and who will enforce them? Will this not 
cause constant bickerings? 

44. Has a large section of the Dheds, Bhangis 
and Ghamars authorized you to create this sort of 
agitation for securing their entry into the Hindu 
temples ? 

45. Do you know that most of them are deadly 
against your agitation and say that it will widen the 
gulf between them and the caste Hindus, create 
trouble and make their position considerably worse? 

46. Are you prepared to issue a referendum 
for ascertaining wishes of the untochables in the 
different parts of India? 

47. Assuming that you suggest a compromise 
and it is accepted by some orthodox Hindus, do you 
think that it will be held as binding to all the un¬ 
touchables and other orthodox Hindus? 

48. Do you know that the sentiments of un- 
touchability are rampant amongst the Rabaris, 
Bharvads, Kolis, Thakardas, Kanbis, Patidars, Raj¬ 
puts and such other castes? 

49. Do you know that the Dheds do not dine 
with the Bhangis and Ghamars, and there are sepa¬ 
rate wells for them in almost all the towns and vil¬ 
lages ? 

50. Can you say with some authority that the 
Dheds will allow the Bhangis and Chamars to enter 
into their temples? 

51. Have you got a written assurance from 
the bulk of the Dheds that they will give up such 

C-7 

98 

THE SIN OF UNTOUGH ABILITY 

sentiments if public temples are opened even to the 
Bhangis and Chamars? 

52. You have been preaching constantly 
touchability after your return from Africa. Will you 
state the number of temples in the towns and villages 
which are opened to the untouchables with the consent 
of the local Sanatanists? 

53. Do you not think that the Lion of India 
who once roared and launched non-co-operation 
movement against the British Government ought 
not to seek help from His Excellency the Viceroy 
on this question ? 

54. You propose to fast to death if the Viceroy 
does not sanction the bill. Is this by way of resent¬ 
ment against the Viceroy or the obstinate Sanatanists ? 

55. Do you not think that your identification 
with the question will prejudicially affect reverence 
of the Sanatanists for you and practically wreck the 
Congress and strengthen hands of the British states¬ 
men who are against giving substantial rights to 
India ? 

56. Do you not think that the reverence for 
you is your real strength? 

57. Are you prepared to face the human nature 
as it is? 

58. Do you really appreciate the practical 
difficulties in the way of accomplishment of your 
desire ? 

59. Gan you suggest a practical way by which 
public temples may be opened to the untouchables 
without creating a split or tension among the Hindus ? 

REPLIES TO A HINDU LEADER’S QUESTIONNAIRE 99 

60. Can the Jains, who are not Hindus by reli¬ 
gion, and the Hindus who are against idol-worship, 
and who have therefore nothing at stake, ask the Vice¬ 
roy to sanction the bill? 

61. Has any of the so-called benefactors of the 
untouchables built or offered to build any temple for 
the untouchables? 

62. What harm is there if separate temples, 
having due regard to local needs are built, and the 
question of the entry into the temples built and main¬ 
tained by the Sanatanists, is shelved? 

63. Have you ever stayed long in places of pil¬ 
grimage with a view to correctly ascertain the depth 
of the religious sentiments of Sanatanists, males and 
females ? 

64. Is it not a fact that the heart, and not the 
body, is the seat of love ? 

65. Is it a fact that the sacred books of the Hin¬ 
dus lay the greatest stress on the mutual touch by 
heart ? 

66. Is it not a fact that it is the lack of mutual 
touch by the heart which creates wars and disputes 
among families and nourishes civil and criminal 
courts ? 

67. You know that during the dire famine of 
Samvat 1956 , numerous Sanatanists fed the needy 
and supplied clothes? Can you point to a single ins¬ 
tance of the untouchables having been denied that 

benefit? 

100 

THE SIN OF UNTOUCH ABILITY 

68. Do you think that the non-touchability 
of the Hindu women in menses is based on the 
principle of purity? Does it breathe any hatred for 
them? 

69. Should a Hindu take his bath and wash his 
clothes if he touches a corpse or any dead creature ? 

70. You know that among the Parsis the women 
in menses are treated as untouchables for eight days. 

71. Do you know that no pious Mohammedan 
would go to a masjid for prayers if there be a drop of 
urine or puss on any of his clothes ? 

72. Supposing that a majority of people in a 
particular village or town believe that to drink is no 
vice, should the minority also drink? 

73. Are you of the opinion that the Dharma 
should be defined according to the notions of the 
majority in a particular locality? 

74. Do you know that about 80 per cent of the 
boys attending schools and colleges, who wear a white 
Khaddar cap, do not visit temples even once a year, 
and most of them state that the sacred books of the 
Hindus should be thrown into the sea ? 

75. Have you ever advised these boys to visit 
temples for darshana at least once a fortnight or 
month ? 

76. Do you not think that if the administration 
of India be entrusted to the people of such views, they 
would follow into the footsteps of Russia, whose 
policy is to make the country Godless ? 

REPLIES TO A HINDU LEADER’S QUESTIONNAIRE 101 

77. Have you ever cared to ascertain the per¬ 
centage of boys referred to in Q. 74, who offer pra¬ 
yers to God even once a day? 

78. Do you know that the ladies residing in the 
Vanita-vishram and numerous educated high-caste 
ladies do not observe menses? 

79. Has not Shrikrishna said that dear unto 
him is one who causes no udvega to others? What are 
your notions about the Ahimsa Dharma? 

80. Gan you point to two males or females 
having similar features of the body etc., from the 
population of 180 crores on the earth? 

81. Is it possible to expect all human beings to 
be of the same temperament or the same habits? 

82. Do you not think that the contact of high- 
caste Hindus with the untouchables in their present 
state would do considerable harm to the former? 

83. All tinctures contain liquor. Would you 
advise those who take them to take liquor or to give 
up the tinctures? 

84. Can you point to any Rajput ruler follow¬ 
ing the Buddhistic religion, or to any Mohammedan 
ruler who had compelled the Sanatanists to allow the 
untouchables to enter into their temples? 

85. Do you think that if the British Govern¬ 
ment were to violate the repeated sacred pledges of 
absolute non-intervention in religious matters, it 
would contribute to their stability and to peace and 
contentment among men? 

102 THE SIN OF UNTOUCHABILITY 

86. Does Malaviyaji take meals or do Sandhya - 
Gayatri without taking a bath if he has touched any 
untouchable person? 

87. If the sentiments of the Hindus who support 
you on this question do not materially differ from 
those of our friend Mr. Shaukat Ali, is it not open 
to him to say that he too is a Sanatanist? And can 
he be our teacher as to what the Sanatana Dharma is ? 

88. Is it a fact that most of the Dheds, Bhangis 
and Chamars take beef even now? Do you think that 
they can be called Harijans? 

Poona, 

9-l-’33 ' R. V. Patwari 

Translation of GandhijPs Reply to 
Mr. Patwari5 s Questions 

Yeravda Central Tail, 

1 l-l-’33 

Revered Ranchhodbhai, 

I am pained to read your letter. How strange 
that you write me a letter in English, or you frame 
such questions as if you want to extract something 
from a witness who tries to baffle you; but as an elder 
brother you are fully authorized to do all that. From 
the interview you had with me, it appears to me that 
you believe me to be wholly irreligious. Still if God 
grants you long life, you will admit some day that 
I have not become irreligious intentionally. Now I 
answer your questions: 

Yours obediently, 
M. K. Gandhi 

REPLIES TO A HINDU LEADER’S QUESTIONNAIRE 103 

1. I wish if it can be so. 

2. I consider it a heavy burden on me if such 
be the case. 

3. If it be true I shall be much pained. I think 
it unbearable that any one should give up his belief 
for the sake of my life. 

4. I fully explained my position in my articles 
on this question. 

5. This question is fully answered in my articles. 

6. What you believe is not wholly impossible. 

7. It is impossible to answer without knowing 
any one’s mind. 

8. It is necessary to read my articles for an ans¬ 
wer to this question. 

9. I have not come to know if any such thing 
happens. 

10. If a systematic referendum is taken and 
if the Zamorin participates in it and if he enforces 
whatever the result comes out of it, I shall consider 
my vow fulfilled. 

11. Yes, sir. 

12. Those who are entitled to temple entry 
according to present practice, and those who recognize 
the necessity of temples. 

13. Pamphlets were freely distributed explain¬ 
ing as to who were entitled to vote and the people 
were relied upon for their honesty of faith. 

14. Certainly, if such a Hindu has faith in 
temples. 

104 

THE SIN OF UNTOUCHABILITY 

15. It is SO. 

16. Those that are not the private property of 
any one person or persons. 

17. No, sir. 

18. I had put on the sacred thread for some 
time. I have never given up tulasi-kanthi but tulasi- 
kanthi gave me up. It was lost in South Africa after 
wearing it for several years. 

19. I do not consider them, to be indispensable 
features of Sanatana Dharma. I did not therefore try 
to wear another when my tulasi-kanthi was lost. 

20. At both places. 

21. It is my firm belief. 

22. I have no objection if it consists of articles 
eatable by me. 

23. I am against inter-communal dinners as an 
item of programme for the removal of untouchability, 
but I see nothing wrong in persons of all classes 
taking food together prepared according to hygienic 
principles and served in separate dishes. 

24. Those taking part in such inter-communal 
dinners can be, rather should be, considered Sana- 
tanists if there are other virtues of Sanatanism in 
them. 

25. I welcome marriages between suitable 
parties if their conduct is pure and if their ultimate 
goal is self-restraint, but I do not consider inter- 
communal dinners and marriages as part of the move¬ 
ment for the removal of untouchability. 

26. No, sir. 

REPLIES TO a HINDU LEADER’S QUESTIONNAIRE 105 

27. Yes, sir. 

28. No, sir. 

29. I have visited so often in my travels that 
I cannot say how many times. 

30. I had no right to contribute anything to 
temples from the funds collected by me. 

31. I do not at all believe so. 

32. I shall not be satisfied with separate tem¬ 
ples for untouchables as I do not believe in the class 
of untouchables. 

33. No, sir. 

34. No, sir. 

35. No, sir. 

36. No, sir. 

37. I cannot understand the question. 

38. Not impossible. 

39. I do not know the exact number. 

40. I wonder if it be true. 

41. I can say that their number is large. 

42. Those Dheds, Bhangis etc. who observe the 
rules of cleanliness must have the right of temple 
entry. 

43. Such rules are obvious, and I consider it 
easier to secure their observance by Harijans than 
by other Hindus. 

44. No, sir. The present movement is for mak¬ 
ing other Hindus do their duty. 

45. It is the reverse of truth. 

46. Your suggestion is acceptable in pursuance 
of the reply to question No. 44. 

106 THE SIN OF UNTOUCH ABILITY 

47. This movement is not a commercial bargain- 
It is religious. It is religion for those who practise it- 

48. It is our misfortune. 

49. It is our another misfortune. 

50. If I can convince the caste Hindus, it is-, 
quite easy to persuade Dheds and others. 

51. Many have given me their assurance. L 
have nothing in writing. 

52. I believe about 500. 

53. I cannot answer this question without com¬ 
mitting a breach of the pledge given to Government. 

54. The answer to this question is included in 
the answer No. 8. 

55. I do not believe so. 

56. Whatever strength is in me is Rama’s. No¬ 
thing is mine. 

57. I have passed my whole life in this way. 

58. I believe I am fully aware of difficulties.. 

59. I have given my suggestions. 

60. No, sir. 

61. Yes, sir. 

62. By doing so, Sanatana Dharma itself would 
be harmed. 

63. Yes, sir. 

64. True. 

65. Yes. 

REPLIES TO a HINDU LEADER’S QUESTIONNAIRE 107 

66. Quite true. 

67. It is not worth mentioning. 

68. It is proper. There is no hatred in it. 

69. It is necessary to be pure. 

70. I have heard so. 

71. It is true. 

72. Never. 

73. Whatever be the definition, what is accept¬ 
able to the majority will be religion. 

74. I shall feel wonder and pain if it is true. 

75. No, sir. 

76. I do not harbour any such fear. 

77. All pray to God at least once for the most 
part. 

78. I do not know. 

79. I have answered this question in my several 
articles. 

80. No, sir. 

81. No, sir. 

82. If high-caste Hindus are really high, their 
contact with Harijans will, instead of harming them, 
profit them and Harijans even. If they are devoid of 
the heart about which you asked a question before, 
they will profit by contact with Harijans because 
this is a matter of heart. 

83. I shall advise giving up tincture. 

84. It is not within my knowledge. 

108 

THE SIN OF UNTOUCHABILITY 

85. No, sir. 

86. This question can be addressed to Malaviya- 

f • 

J1- 

87. I am unable to conjecture what Maulana 
Shaukat Ali would say. 

88. I know they are not all beef-eaters. All can 
certainly be Harijans. 

OUR LATEST PUBLICATIONS 

BY HARIDAS T. MUZUMDAR 

MAHATMA GANDHI 

(A PROPHETIC VOICE) 

The America-domiciled author beautifully de¬ 
tails in this biographical booklet how Mahatma 
Gandhi towered above his contemporaries by the 
sheer power of his personality, by the depth of his 
insight, by the sweep of his vision, by the purity of his 
character, by the steadfastness of his devotion to ideals, 
by his titanic heroism and utter trust in the highest 
attributes of the spirit. 

Pages xvi, 194 Price Rs. 2.50 Postage etc. 0.90 P. 

BY MANUBAHEN GANDHI 

THE LONELY PILGRIM 

[Gandhiji’s Noakh.aH Pilgrimage] 

All those who desire to make experiments in non¬ 
violence will be indebted to Smt. Manubahen Gandhi 
for preserving in this book, details of Gandhiji’s 
Noakhali pilgrimage, so carefully and so faithfully. 
Pages vii, 273 Price Rs. 3 Postage etc. 0.90 P. 

BY DR. ISHWARA TOPA 

ETHOS OF NON-VIOLENCE 

This brochure undertakes to give a seemingly 
full picture of non-violence as preached and practised 
by Gandhiji, for a long period of more than sixty 
years in all its conceivable aspects and with all its 
implications. 

Pages iv, 152 Price Rs. 2.00 Postage etc. 0.30 P. 

OUR LATEST PUBLICATIONS 

BY RAMNARAYAN CHAUDHARY 

NEHRU— IN HIS OWN WORDS 

His Replies to Various Questions] 

This book records the author’s nineteen interviews 
with Shri Jawaharlal Nehru and the latter’s replies 
to various questions put to him. It is hoped that it 
would help the readers to understand better the per¬ 
sonality of the great leader. 

Pages xii, 218 Price Rs. 4.00 Postage etc. Re. 1.00 

BY U. A. ASRANI 

WHAT SHALL WE DO ABOUT ENGLISH 

This is a timely publication. The author draws 
attention of the readers to the serious educational, 
cultural and social risks involved in early commence¬ 
ment of the teaching of English, and suggests that it 
might well begin at the age of 14 and not earlier. 
Pages iv, 48 Price 0.75 Postage etc. 0.15 P. 

BY M. P. DESAI 

THE PROBLEM OF ENGLISH 

This book presents the case why in free India’s 
national educational system teaching of English need 
not and should not now be begun earlier than the age 
of fourteen. The present publication will help eluci¬ 
date to all concerned, the larger and more funda¬ 
mental questions involved in this matter. 

Pages vi, 160 Price Re. 1.50 Postage etc. 0.30 P. 

Navajivan Trust, Ahmedahad-14 

