APPENDIX I 

A Vindication of Caste 

By. 

MAHATMA GANDHI. 

( A Bejmnt of his Adichs in the Ilarijan J ' 

DR. AMBEDKAR’S INDICTMENT 

; . I^ ' 

The readers will recall the fact that Dr. Ainbedkar 
was to have presided last May at the annual conference 
of the Jat-Pat-Torak Mandal of Lahore. But the con- 
ference itself was cancelled because Dr. Ambedkat’s 
address was found by* the Reception Committee to be 
unacceptable. How fer a Reception Committee is jus- 
tified in rejecting a President of its choice because of 
his address that may be objectionable to if is open to 
question. The Committee knew Dr. Arabedkar’s views 
on caste and the Hindu scriptures. They knew also that 
he had in unequivocal terms decided to give up Hinduism. 
Nothing less than the address that Dr. Ambedk’ar had 
prepared was to be expected from him. The Committee 
appears to have deprived the public of an opportunity of 
listening to the original views of a man, who has carved 
out for himself a unique position in society. Whate\’cr 
label he wears in future, Dr. Ambedkar is not the man 
to allow himself to be forgotten. 

Dr, Ambedkar was not going to be beaten by tlie 
Reception Committee. He has answered tlieir rejection 

ANNIHILATION. OF CASTE- 2 

of him by publishing' the address .at .his, own expense. 
He has priced it at 8 annas, I would suggest a reduction 
to 2 anpas pr at least 4 annas. . 

. , No reformer can ignore the' address. The orthodox 
will gain by reading it. This is hot_ to say that the 
address is hot open to objection. It has to be read if 
only because it is open to serious objection. Dr. 
Ambedtar is a challenge to Hinduism. Brought up as a 
Hindu, educated by a Hindu potentate, he lias become 
so disgusted with the so-called Savarna Hindus for the 
treatment that he and his have 'received at their hands 
that, he, proposes to leave not 'ohly them but the very 
religion that is his and their common heritage; He has 
transferred to that religion his disgust against a part of 
its professors. “ • • ' « - • - 

But this is hot to be wondered at. After all, one 
can only judge a system or an institution by ; the 
Conduct of its representatives. What is more. Dr. • 
Ambedkar found that .. .the vast • majoritji of Savarna 
Hindus had -not only condiicted themselves inhumanly 
against those of their fellow.. Teligiohists, whom they 
classed as untouchables, but thay had based their 
conduct on the, authority of their scriptures, and when 
he began to search them he had found ample warrant 
for their belief in. untouchability and all its implications. 
The author of the address has quoted chapter and 
verse in proof of.his three fold indictmnent—inhuman 
conduct itself, the unabashed justification for it on the 
part of the perpetrators, and the subsequent discovery 
that the justification was warranted by their scriptures. 

3 annihilation of caste 

No Hindu who frizes his faith above life itself can 
afford to underrate thfe importahce of this indictment. 
Dr% Ambedkar is not alone in his disgusb He is its 
most uncompromising exponent ^nd one of the ablest 
among them. He is Certainly the most irreconcilable 
among them. Thank God, in the front rank of the 
leaders, he is singularly alone and as yet but a 
representative of a very small minority. But what he 
says is voiced with more or less vehemence by many 
leaders belonging to the depressed classes. Only the 
latter, for instance Rao Bahadur M. C. Rajah and 
Dewan Bahadur Srinivasan, not only do not threaten 
to give up Hinduism but find enough warmth in it to 
compensate for the shameful persecution to which the 
vast mass of Harijans are exposed. 

But the fact of many leaders remaining in the 
Hindu fold is no warrant for disregarding what X>r. 
Ambedkar has to say. The Savarnas have to correct 
their belief and their conduct. Above all those who 
are by their learning and iiiflunce among the Savarnas 
have to give an authoritative interpretation of the 
scriptures. The question that Dr. Ambedkar’s indict- 
ment suggests are : 

1. What are the scriptures ? 

2. Are all the printed texts to be regarded as an 
integral part of- them or is any part of them to be 
rejected as unauthorized interpolations ? 

3. What is the answer of such accepted and 
expurgated scriptures on tlie que.stion of untouchability, 
caste, equality of status, interdining and inteniiarnages ? 

ANNIHILATION OF CASTE 

4 

(^Tiiese have been all examined by Dr. Anbedkar. 
in his address. ) 

I must reserve for the next issue my own answer 
to these questions and a statement of the (at least some) 
manifest flaws in Dr. Ambedivar’s thesis. 

( Harijan July ii, 1936 ) 

II 

The Vedas, Upanishads, Smritis and Puranas 
including Raniayana and Mahabharata are the Hindu 
Scriptures. Nor is this a finite list. Every age or 
even generation has added to the list. It follow.s^ 
therefore, that everything printed or even found hand- 
written is not scripture. The Smritis for instance 
contain much that can never be accepted as the word 
of God. Thus many of the texts that Dr, Ambedkar 
quotes from the Smritis cannot be accepted as authentic. 
The scriptures, properly so called, can only be concerned 
with eternal verities and must appeal to any conscience 
i e. any heart whose eyes of understanding are opened. 
Nothing can be accepted as the word of God which 
cannot be tested by reason or be capable of being 
spiritually e.xperienced. And even when you have an 
e.xpurgated edition of the scriptures, you will need 
their interpretation. Who is the best interpreter ? 
Not learned men surely. Learning there must be. 
But religion does hot -live by it It lives in the expe- 
riences of its saints and seers, in their lives and sayings. 
When all the most learned commentetors of the scrip- 
tures are utterly forgotten, the accumulated experience 
of the sages and saints will abide and be an inspiration 
for ages to come. 

5 

AKNiHiLATlON OF CASTE 

Caste has nothing to do with jeligion. It is a custom 
whose origin I do not know and do not need to know 
for the satisfaction of mj spiritual hunger. But I do 
know that it is harmful both to spiritual and national 
growth. Varna and Ashrama are institutions 'which 
have nothing to do with castes. The law of Varna 
teaches us that Ave have each one of us to earn our 
bread by, following the ancestral calling. It defines not 
our rights but our duties. It necessarily has reference 
to callings that are conducive to the welfare of humanity 
and to no otlier. It also follows that there is no calling 
too low and none too high. All are good, lawful, and 
sbsolutely equal in status, The callings of a Brahmin- 
apiritual teacher-and a scavenger are equal, and their 
due performance airries equal nierit before God and at 
one time seems to have carried identical reward before 
man. Both were entitled to their livelihood and no more. 
Indeed one traces even now in the villages the faint 
lines of this healthy operation of the law. Living in 
Segaon with its population of 600, I do not find a great 
disparity between the earning.*; of different tradesmen 
including Brahmins. I find too that real Brahmins are 
to be found even in these degenerate days who are living 
on alms freely given to them and are giving freely of 
what they have of spiritual treasures. It would be wrong 
and improper to judge the law of Varna by its caricature 
in the lives of meri who profess to belong to a Varwh 
whilst they openly commit a breach of its only operative 
rule. Arrogation of a superior status by any of the 
Varna over another is a denial of the law. And there 

is nothing in the law of Varna to warrant a belief in 
untouchability. ( The e.s.sence of Hinduism is contained 

ANNtnn A I 05' ( AM 

6 

151 its c5Uinci:uio5i oi osir 
its bold ncocpiasuv td 
human {atnily. ) 

and lUilv tbnl as 'rinlii ami 
Ahiinsa ns lhi‘ law ol tin* 

1 am a wave that mv intci jnvtati.m t»f Hinduism will 
be disputed bv manv besides 1 )v. Ambedkar. That does 
not aiVcci mv pesiiiun. It is an interpietatinn bv whic h 
I have lived loi nearly hall a century and aceoidinj;- 1<' 
which I have endeavncired to the In-st ol my ability to 
ro"uhite mv life. 

o • 

In mv opinion the. jiroiound mistake that Dr. .’Vmhed- 
kar has made in his address is to pick* out the tc.vls ot 
doubtful authenticity and value and the state of degraded 
Hindus who me no lit specimens of the faith they so 
woefully misrepresent. Judged by the standard applied 
bv Dr. Ambedkar, cvers’ known living faith will 
probably fail. 

In his able address, the Icanicd I])oclor has over- 
proved his case. Can a religion that was professed , by 
Chaitanya, Jnyanadeva, Tukaram, Tiruvalluvar, Kam- 
krishna' Paramahamsa, Raja Ram Mohon Roy, Mahar- 
shi Devendrahath Tagore, Vivekanand and host of 
others who might be easily mentioned, so utterly devoid 
of merit as is made out in Dr, Ambedkar’s address ? A 
religion has to be judged not. by its worst specimens but 
by the best it might have produced. For that and that 
alone can be used as the standard to aspire to, if not to 
improve upon. 

( Harijan July i8, 1936 ) 

/ 

/ NNr ILATK N CF C ASTE 

iir 

VARNA V, CASTE 

Shri Sant Raniji, of the Jat-Pat-Toralc Mandat ol 
Lahore, wants me to publish the following : 

“ I have read your remarks about Dr. Ambedkar and 
the Jat— Pat— Torak Mandal, Lahore. In that connection 
I beg to submit as follows ; 

“We did not invite Dr. Ambedkar to preside over 
our conference because lie belonged to the Depressed 
Classes, for we do not distinguish between a touchable 
and an untouchable Hindu. On the contrary our choice 
fell on him simply because his diagnosis of the fatal 
disease ol the Hindu community was the Same, as ours, 
i.e. he too was of the opinion that caste system was the 
root cause of the disruption and downfall of the Hindus. 
The subject of the Doctor’s thesis for Doctorate being 
caste system, he has studied the subject thoroughly. Now 
the object of our conference was to persuade tlie Hindus 
to annihilate castes but the advice of a non-Hindu in 
social and religious matters can have no eflfect on them. 
The Doctor in the supplementary portion of his address 
insisted on saying that that was his last speech as a Hindu, 
which was irrelevant as well as pernicious to th^ 
interests of the conference. So we requested him to 
expunge that sentence for he could easily say tlie same 
thing on any other occasion. But he refused and we saw 
no utility in making merely a show of our function. In 
spite of all this, I cannot help praising his address which 
is, as far as I know, the most learned thesis on tlie 
subject and worth translating into every vernacular 
of India 

annihila'iion: ok castk 

8- 

Moreover, I want to bring to yonr notice tiiat yonr 
philosophical difference between caste and vani(( is too 
subtle to be grasped by people in general, because for 
all practical purposes in the Hindu society caste and 
vania arc one and the same thing, for the function of 
both of them is one and the same, i. c. to restrict 
intercaste marriages hmd interdining. Your theon' of 
varnavyavafitlui is impracticable in this age and there 
is no hope of its revival in the near future. But Hindus 
arc slaves of caste and do not want to destroy it. So 
when you advocate your ideal or imagijiary varna- 
vyavdstlia they find justification for clinging to caste. 
Thus vou are doing a great disservice to social reform 
by advocating your imaginary utility of division of 
l'arnc(Si for it create.s hindrance in our way. To try to 
remove untouchability without striking at the root of 
varnavyavastha is simply to treat^the outward symptoms 
of a disease or to draw a line on the surface of water. 
As in the heart of their hearts dwijas do not want to 
give social equality to the so-called touchable and unto- 
uchable Shudras, so thay refuse to break caste, and give 
liberal donations for the removal of untouchability, 
simply to evade the issue. To seek the help of the shas- 
tras for the removal of untouchability and caste is simply 
to wash mud with mud. ” 

The last paragraph of the letter surely cancels 
the first. If the Mandal rejects the help of the shastras, 
they do '’exactly what Dr. Ymbedkar does, i. e. cease 
to be Hindus. How then can they object to Dr. 
Ambedkar’s address merely because he said that that 
was his last speech as a Hindu ? The position appears 

•9 

ANNIHILATION OF CASTE 

e» 

to be wholly untenable especially when the Mandal, 
for which Shri Sant Earn claims to speak, applauds 
the whole argument of Dr. Ambedkar’s address. 

But it is pertinent to ask what the Mandal believes 
if it rejects the shastras. How can a Muslim remain 
one if he rejeost the Quran, or a Christian remain Chri- 
stian if he rejects the Bible ? If caste and mma are 
convertible terms and if 'oarnci is an integral pa rt of the 
shastras which define Hinduism, I do not know how 
a person who rejecte who cejects coste i. e. mfrici can 
call himself a Hindu. 

Shri Sant Rum likes tlie shastras to mud. Dr. Amb- 
edkar has not, so far as I remember, given any such pic- 
turesque name to the shastras. I have certainly meant 
when I have said that if shastras support the existing 
untouchability 1 should cease to call myself a Hiubu. 
Similarly, if the sjiastras support caste as we know it to- 
day in all its hideousness, I may not call myself or rem- 
ain a Hindu since I have no scruples about interdining 
or intermarriage. I need not repeat my position Iregardi- 
ng shastras* and their interpretation. I venture to sugg- 
est to Shir Sant Ram that it is the only rational and 
correct and morally defensible position and it has ample 
warrant in Hindu tradition. 

( Harijan, August 15, 1936 ) 

