HINDUISM 

AND 

UN TO UCHABILITY 

■By 

Swami Sundarananda 

(u/ Ramalirishna Mission) 

The real untouchables are the impure thoughts 
that lurk it; the mind. the lying, the dovetail sites', and the 
deceit uhuh rr.ar out daily dealing. It is these whose 
Cijiita t is cuntdeiiwatiag ugh i ti t>e shu,tried. 

Gandhiji 

Central Office. 

HARIJAN SEVAK SANGH 

Kingsway, Delhi-9 

HIND UISM 

AND 

UN TOUCHABILIT Y 

. By 

Swami SundaranancSa 

Foreword b y 

Dr. Shyama Prasad Mookerjee 

★ 

Central Office. 

HARIJAN SEVAK SAN'€H, 
Kingsway, Delhi-9 

Published by 

K.S. Shivam, 

General Secretary 
Harijan Sevak Sa ngh, 
Kingsway, Delhi-9 

All Rights Reserved by the publishers 

Printed by 

Viyogi Hari 

Udyogshala Press, Rupees three only 

Harijan Sevak Sangh, 

Kingsway, Delhi-9 

HINDUISM 

AND 

UNTPU^H ABILITY 

FOREVtoto 

• The achievement-of unity amongst all -ranks 
aryd classes of Hindusi is 1 .a problem .that*has to 
he ‘ solveH' without "d e fay fjor the- good of -the -tv-hole 
of India. Ouf'religion*treats all men as equals. 
Customs have/^rown.-i^Jr’^pi time immemorial 
which have created artificial barriers among 
Hindus. There were periods in fhe history of 
our country|,when such barriers wfere inevitable-- 
Today we ‘must move with the times. The 
Hindu race has to be revived ahd -strengthened 
so that it may build an imperishable*-.foundation 
on which a 'free India can rest. Let us boldly 
take up the task of removal of untouchability 
from the Hindu fold so that we can all march 

togethj;mtowards our desired goal, distinction 
between man and man based on mere prejudices 
creates feelings. of hostility which ultimately 
reacts against our common national welfare. Let 
us not forget that we are inheritors of a religion 
-which hailed all men as the children of im- 

FOREWORD 

6 

mortality, and let us rebuild our society on'an 
•enduring structure of peace and. good-will, of 
progress'and liberty. THis book will, I hope, 
serve to focus the attention of the public on a/ 
matter of vital importance to future welfare. 

Shyama Prasad MooTcerjee 
m October, im : v 

PRjEFApE TO THE FIRST EDITION 

• “Hinduisj-n And Untouchabi'lity” was or¬ 
iginally published in 1922. It is _npw published 
with necessary additions-and'alteration's-made up 
to date. The-problerruof untouchaibihty has-been . 
discussed 1 from;the .socio-religrous point of view 
Tn che first chapter and from the national point of 
wiew in the second.'Eihphasis has been laid on the 
much valued opinions of^wami Vivekananda, 
the great reformer of modern India,.in elucidat¬ 
ing the points raised. There is -no gain saying: 
the fact that the regeneration of the Hindus ana 
the development of Indian nationalism demand* 
immediate solution of this intricate problem. I 
shall consider my labours ampiyurewardecUi this 
book succeeds in creating a desire in the minds- 
•of the readers to eradicate’ the bape pi untouch- 
ability for ever. 

I take this opportunity of Conveying my 
thanks to Dr. Shyama Prasafd Mookerjee, Presi¬ 
dent, All-India Hindu MahHabha, for his hay¬ 
ing kindly contributed a^arned foreword. I am 

7 

8 

PREFACE 

thankful to Swami Sharvananda of the Ramakri- 
shna Math, Prof. Suniti Kumax Ghatterji and' 
Prof. Priya Ranjan Sen of the Calcutta University 
who have evinced keen interest in the publication 
of this book and given their kind opinions,append¬ 
ed at the end. In this connection I also acknow¬ 
ledge my indebtedness to Swami Gambhirananda 
of the Ramakrishna Math, Prof, Jnanendra 
Chandra Datta, Messrs- Manindra Bhusan Gupta-, 
(artist), Prafulla Nath Roy Chowdhury, Manag¬ 
ing Director, Pioneer Commercial Bank Ltd. ' 
and others for the ungrudging help they render¬ 
ed me in various ways for bringing out this- 
publication. 

Udbodhan Office, 
Baghbazar, Calcutta. 
The 28th May, IQ46. 

Sundarananda 

PREFACE TO THE SECOND EDITION 

The first edition of ‘Hinduism and Unto- 
uichability’.was received well by both the patriotic 
press and public. As a result, it was complete¬ 
ly exhausted within twd years of| its publica¬ 
tion- with the least effort for pushing tip its sale. 
"T/he book was publishecj just a year prior to the 
a/chievement of independence by India and al¬ 
most immediately after thafhistoric event, the 
Constituent Assembly, set up for framing a 
' .constitution, declared India a full-fledged mode- 
rn Republic. The Assembly, consistent with its ' 
•great ideal, adopted amidst acclamations on the 
:29th November, 1948, as one of the Fundamental 
rights, an Article providing for the abolition of 
-untouchability. The Article reads as foljows :•—• 
Untouchability is abolished and its practice in 
any* form is forbidden. The enforcement of any 
•disability arising out of “Untouchability’ shall 
L>e an offence punishable in accordance with 
Law”. Another important Article adopted re¬ 
lated to the prohibition of discrimination against 
any citizen on grounds of religion, race, caste or 

9 

10 

PREFACE TO THE SECOND EDITION 

sex. Members of the" Scheduled-Caste-in the- 
Assembly weleofned the provisions for abolition, 
of untouchability and hailed November 29, 
as a red-letter day* This sacred day wofild go- 
down in history as a day of Deliverance and 
Resurrection for fifty million Scheduled Castes-, 
of India. The momentous decision of the Re¬ 
publican India to eradicate untouchability was; 
welcomed by all sections of people in different, 
parts of the civilised world. Lord Pathick Law¬ 
rence, in a statement, said “The Constituent. 
Assembly’s decision was heartening news to all 
friends of India. To carry out fully this,great 
advance in human brotherhood in all ramifica¬ 
tions of Indian social life, would be a task wor¬ 
thy of the present leaders of Indian thought aiuL 
a fitting tribute to the memory of Mahatma. 
Gandhi”. It can be unhesitatingly said\in this- 
connection, that it is also a great tribute to the- 
sacred memory of- Swami Vivekananda, who- 
with his characteristic vehemence, denounced 
untouchability long before aDy Indian leader 
ventured to take the field. 

The historic Bill to make the practice of un- 
touchabifity a cognizable offence, which (The- 
UntouchCbility Offences Act) was passed by" 
Rajya Sabha (Indian Parliament) on the 2nd May 

PREFACE 1 TO THE SECOND EDITION ' ll 

1955, has cdmej into ior'qe trom the 1st,. Junfe, 
'.1955, throughout Injdia. I^t is a- happy, augury 
that all' the Provincial Governments have made 
suitable arrangements for effective implementa¬ 
tion of its provisions their respective States. 
The scope of .the.^ict is,not_only' confined ,to tho 
Hindu community, but it also extends to the 
■Jain," SithT-Mtiniim, Christian and othej-com^ 

munitie's'. * 

“Brbadly, the offences created by'the Act 
may be divided undej^twoiiieads *: ti) Offences 
relating to religious disabilities ancTfii) .Offences 
relating to social and economic disabilities. 

“The Act provides that, .whoever on the 
ground of Untouchability prevents any person 
from entering a place of ppblic worship whidx 
is open to his co-religionists, or fromivworship- 
ping. or offering prayers, or performing any re¬ 
ligious service thdrejn in the same .manner and/to 
the same extent aa is permissible to his cp^reli- 
gionists, shall be liable to be punished. For the 
purpose of this provision, persons professing the 
Buddhist, Sikh or Jd^n religion, or persons pro¬ 
fessing the Hindu religion in any of its forms or 
developments, are deemed to be Hindus. 

“The effect of this extended definition of 
■‘Hindus’ is that if a sectional temple, for exam-; 

PREFACE TO THE . SECOND’EDITION v 

12: 

pie, a Jain temple, is open ‘to- caste Hindus, it 
shall also be open to-pferso'nsu. wKo are victims 
of ‘Untouchabrlity’. , 

- “The Act _pcoyides-that persons who are vic- 
tims of ‘Untouchability’ shall have access' to any 
shop, public restaurant, hotel or place of public 
entertainments. Every person shall'' also be 
entitled to the use of any utensils and other arti¬ 
cles kept,in a public restaurant, hotel, -dharam-- 
shala, sarai or musafirkhana for the use of the 

"feneraT"public, or’ persons™professing the same 

religion as that person. 

“Every such person shall be free to practise 
any profession or carry on any occupation, .trade 
or business. He shall be entitled'to the use of 
any river, stream, spring, well, tank, cistern, 
water-tap or other watering place, or any bath¬ 
ing ghat, burial or cremation ground any sanitar^ 
convenience, any road or passage op any other 
place of-publicTesort which isopen toother 
members of the public or vp^rsons professing the 
same religion as that person. \ 

. “In addition, every such person shall be 
entitled to the use of, and have access to any 
place used‘for a charitable or public purpose 
maintained wholly or partly out of State' funds 
or dedicated fo-the use of the general puhlic, or 

PREFACE; TO THE" SECOND ,'EfilTIOd 13 

fty persons professing the/saihe 'religion £s.j^iat 
person. .He- shall-have right th enjoy any bene¬ 
fit un^der a charitable trust tyea^ed for the gerib- 
fal public or for persons professing the\same re-' 
ligiom' as tfigt person:- 'tie is further entitled to 
•the, use of any, public conveyance-- 

“Byery such person shall fie free to construct; 
-accJuird\or occupy any residential premises in 
any locality-whatsoever, and shall be entitled to - 
rpbfeerve.any, so.cial or.religious, custom,, usage or 
take part ip any religious^roeessiron. He is also 
free to weir any jewellery ^nd finery. 

' *‘A person who refuses-to sell any goods or 
.render any service_io any other’person’on the 
ground of £,< UntouchabiKty”'_ shall be guilty of 
-an offence. jSuch discrimination as providing 
-these services separately is also an offence. 

“Further, any economic boycott ( y term de- 
-fined ih the widest possible terms ivi the Act ) 
of any person who exelcises any yights accruing 
to him by reason of the abolitkjrf of “Untoucba- 
Jbility’ by the Constitution^ opof those who might 
. refuse to. practise ‘Untouc^hbility’ is also a cri- 
-minal offence., 

“hjlo person is to be refused admission to any 
Ihospital ( or educational institution, or a hostel 

14 

PREFACE TO THE SECOND EDITION 

attached to any educational institution on the* 
ground ‘Untouchability’. Nor after admission 
he is to be discriminated against, for he is en¬ 
titled to the same treatment as others. 

“Under the penal provisions of the Act it 
is laid down that if a person refuses to render 
any service to any person on ground of ‘Un¬ 
touchability’ during the course of his profession,, 
trade, calling or employment, the license grant¬ 
ed to him in respect of such profession, trade,, 
calling or employment is liable to be cancelled.” 

“Offences under the Act are made cogniza¬ 
ble, that is to say, a police officer to whom a 
complaint is made about such an offence can 
arrest the offender without a warrant-from a 
Magistrate”. 

It is quite clear from the above provisions,, 
as also from Hindu Scriptures that untouchabi¬ 
lity in the main is a social evil. Consequently 
its complete extinction primarily depends upon 
a radical change in our social custom or out¬ 
look. IMow-a-days, due to the force of circum¬ 
stances, the evil of untouchability is gradually 
disappearing from the Hindu Society. Never¬ 
theless, one can see that although untouchabi¬ 
lity was declared a cognizable criminal offence- 

PREFACE TO THE SECOND EDITION 

m 

by the Indian Parliament, its practice 'still '.con¬ 
tinues to be a festering sore on our body, politic. 
This book suggests an effective antidote against 
the fell diseasfe frdm social, religious and nation¬ 
al stand-points, and as such, I 'think it .has-still 
a distinct need to fulfil. Therefore,, the utility 
of the, book.ofi the_eve of the .reorg&nisation of 
our; national life is quite obvious. 

I As I have mentioned in the beginning of 
tnis preface that the first edition ■ of this book 
was published just a year prior to the - achieve¬ 
ment of Independence. Now this edition is com¬ 
ing out in the 13th year of our Independence 
and within this short (short because 13 years in 
the life of a nation is nothing) period we have 
made much progress in the work for the removal 
of Untouchability that was eating into vitals of 
our national fabric. Therefore it is in the fitness 
of things to revise and enlarge this edition so as 
to bring it upto date. 

In conclusiqn, I acknowledge my indebted¬ 
ness to the All India Harijan Sevak Sanglv 
Kingsway, Delhi-9, for kindly bringing out this 
edition from the Sangh. This famous institution 
stands for the fulfilment of the same object for 

16 

PREFACE TO THE SECOND EDITION 

which this book has -been- written. I therefore, 
-do hereby gladly surrender all rights of the book 
to the Sangh. My sincere gratitude is also due 
to Shri K.S. Shivam, General Secretary, Harijan 
Sevak Sangh, Swami Ranganathanandaji, Secre¬ 
tary, Ramakrishna Mission; “New-Delhi, and 
■Shri L.M. Shrikant, Commissioner for Scheduled 
■Gastes and Tribes, Government of India, New 
Delhi, for helping me in various ways to publish 
this edition. 

Lastly I take this opportunity to convey my 
.grateful thanks to the Secretary, Orissa Depres¬ 
sed Classes League, Bhubaneswar, for publish¬ 
ing a translation of the book in Qriya language 
under the patronage of the Local Government 
in 1956, as also to the Secretary Bihar Harijan 
Sevak Sangh, Patna, for his kind consent to 
publish a Hindi translation of the book early. 

The Ramakrishna Mission, 

Belur Math, Swami Sundarananda 

Hewrah Dist. West Bengal. 

14-12-59■ 

HINDUISM AND UNTOUCHABILITY 

FIRST CHARTER 

(Socio-Religious) 

“God sports through man as well. I see 
man as the embodiment of Narayana. As fire 
, is kindled when you rub two pieces of wood 
together, so God can be seen in man if you 
have intense devotion. When nrSeis,intoxicat¬ 
ed with prema, one sees God iivall beings". 

Sri Ramakrishna 

Hinduism 

and 

lint ouch ability 

J'n'jthe early Vedip.-times different.jnembers, 

"pf.'the same, family used to undertake diffie-' - 
Tentoccupations qf Chaturvama-iSom caste's) 1 
according to their inclinations 1 ' and abilities. 
Every member'of the family was at liberty to, 
adopt any profession he liked best without any 
obligation. Born of the same parents, one son us-, 
ed to tend ,the cattle and till the soil; the second' 
son, having perhaps mercantile bias* carried on 
Trade ahd Commerce, the third one, being of an 
enterprising nature, defended his hearth and 
home against aggressors and .maintamea .peace 
and order of the country; and again/the fourth 
son, gifted with intellectual and spifitual disposi¬ 
tion, pursued the priestly profes^ion. In course of 
time, when the Ved'ic Aryans', having grown in 
overwhelming numbers, scattered and colonised 
throughout the whole of Aryavarta, they divided 
themselves into four divisions accordihg their 
different qualities (gunas) and actions ( karmas ) 

20 

HINDUISM AND UNTOUCHABILITY 

in order to organise their society and Bet it upon 
a sound basis. This fourfold division h^s been, 
a predominant factor of the Hindu social'fabric. 

Sri Krishna, the great incarnation of'God,. ’ 
said : “The four castes ~were -created by me by' / 
the • differentiation of qualities and actions / 
though I am the author of them, know me to be. 
actionless and changeless.” 1 Thus he supported 
the basic - principles of the Vedic Rishis who or¬ 
ganised tte Hindu society according to the quali¬ 
ties and actions suited' to diverse temperaments, 
and tendencies -of different • classes of people. 
The great law-giver Manu also bears us out on. 
this point when he says : “Internally or exter¬ 
nally one’s caste should be. determined by one’s 
own actions.” 2 Kulluka Bha^a, a renowned 
authority on Smriti and a commentator of the 
Manu Samhita , lays down: “If there be no¬ 
means tp find out or know the caste of any one, 
then it should be determined .according to 'his 

X. w tud wwfrvnra: i v , 

i. , dw *TI it . - 

• ' ' %TT 

.mmsd aicj. . bi*s • ~-5-„ —%5«f^r r ' : 

HINDUISM AND UNipDCHABJ^tiTY^ 21 

Actions .” 3 £yen the celebrated sqcial reformer 
Baljala Seha^ the ^img of Gauda Vangcc, arbitrarily' 
re-adjusted the Hindu society of pengal ^adjord*-' 
ing to thesei principles. 

i 

While studying o,ur scriptures, one tan fiqd 
that many distinguished sages of ancient times 
could not trace' then: birth to/-any decent origin. 
But.it was their qualities 'ana* actions' that can 
bettex be „ summed„up-in,one-..word;jrhaxacter’" 
which placed them in .an-elevated. positpSi in the 
Hindu society and lifted them .even, to~the rank 
of highly venerated Hishis, the teachers and 
guides of mankind. In days of yore, a dangerous 
outlaw like Ratnakara could be turned into Vai- 
mjki Rishvand a meat-seller Tuladhara mighty 
be, the spiritual guide of Jajali Rjj^ii. Veda 
Vyasa, the versatile compiler of Vedic,lore, ,was 
the son of a fisher-man’s daughter, and Vasistha, 
though born of a divine courtesan' named 
vashi, was a highly respected Rishi of his age- 
We tead in the. Chhandogyopanishad that Idbala, 
who is best known by the name of Satyakama, 

3. Srcrt snfaMprr 1 

—Fjfasrfpr 

22 

■''HINDUISM: AND UNTOUCHAB ILITy 

although ignorant of the identity of his'father, 
was the founder of a, renowned school of Yajur- 
veda. Kripa,. Dfona and Kamar, the great heroes 
of the M'ahabharata did not know the names of 
their fathers. In the Aitareya Brahmanawe find 
that Kabhasha Alusha, a low-born Shudra, raised 

himself to the rank of a Rishi by his unimpea^ 
chable character and high spiritual' attainments'. 
It is distinctly stated in the Harivamsa that 
Nabhaga and a son of Arista, though of low , 
birth, were admitted into the Brahmin class. 
Guhaka Chandala enjoyed the friencfehip of 
Ramachandra. Vidura,the son of a Shudra mother, 
was highly respected by Shri Krishna whp'dc; 
cupies a unique position in the Hindi!, panthson. 
A careful study of our various scriptures will 
convince any open-minded man that all the 
compilers of our social .code were actuated by 
the same inner urge of constructing a magnifi¬ 
cent Hindu social edifice or Varnashfama Dharma 
upon, the principal basis of the qualities and 
actions'of men. Let us quote here a few sayings 
from our scriptures-to show clearly how a matt 
of lower or higher class could be promoted or 
degraded'according to his good or bad qualities 
and actions : 

HINDUISM AND'UNTOUCMABIMX^ 2 & 

“Man gets into a higher p^jjWby 1 ' Virtuous 
deeds-” 41 ' 

“A Shudra attains the ,fadBrahmlnVnd 
a Brahmin sinks into 1i|Mlevel of a Shfidra. 
Know-mp same in, the wsre of a Kshatriya or a 
Vaish^?’ 5 

“By doirig (good religious deeds even men of 
a lower- -caste -ijise"to the'hi'gher “caste jjfid hlthe 
same jvay-by-doing‘irf^ligious acts even men of 
a higher caste fall to the loyer oned’ 6 

, I Even a Brahmin, gdilty of wicked acts and 
taking bad food, falls 1 from .Brahminhood and 
becomes a Shtjdra; even so a Shudra, whose soul 
has been purified by virtuous deeds and who hasi 

V. Tpc: 50% I 

1 —mfom 

X. gift sn^nuRn^rltr 1 

— 

5TsnTWTT ‘TCrpTT'raih 

24 

HINDUISM AND UNTOUCHABILITY 

his senses controlled, rises to Brahminhood.” 7 

“Not by high parentage, nor by caste but by- 
good deeds one -becomes- -a Brahmin. Even a. 
Chandala, O ! Yudhisthira, becomes a Brahmin, 
by good conduct.” 8 

We need not multiply quotations to vindicate- 
that according to our Varnashrama Dharma many 
a Chandala, by virtuous deeds, have attain¬ 
ed Brahmin-hood. Can there be any ■-stronger 
reason to justify the uplift of the depressed 
classes than this ? Is it not then meet and proper 
that any lower class, which deserves to be pro¬ 
moted to a-higher rank for better qualities and 
actions, should be raised to that social status T 
It is clear from our scriptures that every mem¬ 
ber of a particular class can, by pious or impious- 
character, become a member of a higher or a. 

u. 5ri§Htrt i 

Epjfbr: gfabrffa ^prc^n brfsrafejT: i 
spsfrsfq- f?<3T^r II 

—^nrrtcr, 

s. ?T g^T ^ ^TT?qT 3T f^rblWT^rQTi I 

ffwr^nji: nr qbrfer n 

•HINDUISM AND UNTOUCHABILITY 

25, 

lower cas£c. Every caste of the Chaturvarna in 
■ancient India had its code of conduct; neither 
Jbirtln nor 1 right-was the ground for any one to be 
•called a Brahpiin or a Kshatriya or a Vaishya or 
•a Shudra, buf conduct was the only criterion. 

The Hindus should remember that the all- 
pervading influence of the later-day degraded 
T3uddhists and other allied sects, and also that of 
■foreigners ydio ruled over India for several cfem 
turies, have contributed substantially to the de¬ 
molition of the old structure of file Hindu so¬ 
ciety. As a result of the repeated internal re¬ 
solutions and external invasions which threaten-: 
fed the very existence of the Hindus, the-old laws 
•of the Varnashrama Dharma became inoperative 
in the Hindu society long ago. Now, certain blind 
and meaningless customs and practices, as also 
some local prejudices and usages have taken the 
place of pristine laws -and begun to govern the 
.society everywhere. 

As regards the origin of the preserlt caste 
system, Dr. B.S. Moonje says, “Therelias been 
•one more result, equally terrible of Buddhistic 
propaganda in India we see it in the sociology 
of the Hindus. As a non-violent repulse to 
ferocious violent attacks of forcible proselytisai 
tion persistently indulged in throughout the 

26; ’HINDUISM ’AND ’-UNTOUCHABILITY 

/ 

Moslem period of seven hundred years, the 
Hindus evolved a system known as the Caste 
System being cqnscious^Ctkeirinabiiity to repel 
violence with violence.” This system, in the 
opinion of a section pf sociologists, put a check 
to proselytisation of non-violent Hindu masses 
to some extent during the period of Moslem ' 
supremacy, but it . bred many serious evils* and 
damned them to perpetual slavery, . It hasjbeeit 
the roof "cause, of division of the Hindus into 
innumerable warring sects, which, in” turn, have 
brought about their degeneration, and downfall.. 
Analysing the defects of the caste system, Rao' 
Bahadur C.V, Vaidya, the celebrated historian 
of Maharashtra, in his .History of Medieval Hindu 
India, says, “The result of the Caste System is 
that, about 10% :of the population is fit and dis¬ 
posed to fight; while the remaining 90%*T by 
nature and heredity, is not fit-to fight and is, there¬ 
fore ready to accept the rule of any ’nation which 
happens to be successful.”; So serious attefnpts 
need be made .to reform* the Hindu society in'a. 
manner consistent with the changed conditions, 
•of the time as well as with*; our traditional reli¬ 
gion* and'culture. 

- Swami yivekananda, the patriot-saint of mo- 
derm.4n.dia, preached the necessity* of rebuild- 

HINDUISM AND UNTOUGHABipiTp 

* i ' 1 

•\he L 

2 % 

ing t;he Hitidu/sociajLedifice upon'the 1 'firm. foU;nd w '_ 
ation of -tfie qriginhl Chatmvama (fouP c^st&s). 
He said, “W/emhst revive the ^e>qld latyspf 
the Rishis- \|/e must hiitiate the whole people 
into the codes of! opr old Manuand Yajnavalkya 
with a few modifications here and there to adjust 
them to the char .gech(circurnstaQees_of the .time.-; 
Do'you not seej tftaji.iio where in India now the' 
original, ^foun -cyst-is *$Gfaipikrvdnitf •’a^ rfe* ‘Ife 
found 2- -We have-to. re-~divlde : the whole Hindu 
population, grouping it' under the fofir main 
castes/ of the Brahmins,, 'Kshatriyas, Vaishyas 
and'Snudras, as of old. The numberless modern 
subdivisions, of the Brahmins that split- them up 
into so many castes, as'’it-were, have to be abol¬ 
ished, and a singly. Brahmin caste made by unit-: 
ing them all. E^ch of the-three remaining casies 
also, Will have to.be brought 'similarly dnto single 
groups, as was the case in Veche times.” The/ 
great Swami wanted to level doiyn the distifio; 
tions of privilege by helping every >qne down..to 
Chandala to attain the right ip'.Dharma, /Artha# 
Kama and Moksha (Virtue, Wealth, Desire add 
Liberation). 

The fourfold natural divisions; have existed in: 
all societies in all climes and ages. The. Bra'h<-j:. 
mins, Kshatriyas, Vaishyas and Sbudras are founds 

28 HINDUISM AND UNTOUCHABILITY 

not in theory but in practice among all races in' 
some form or other. Knowingly or unknowingly 
the people of every country or the followers of 
every religion are divided into these four main 
fundamental classes according to their qualities 
and actions. These classes are mutually inter¬ 
dependent. Each class is best in its own placb.. ■ 
There is no place for exclusive privilege for any 
class in any matter in the equitable jirr-angement; 
but there are equal opportunities for all in all 
kinds of self-improvement. The social structure 
of the Hindus is a veritable sociological com¬ 
mon-wealth. 

Sri Shankaracharya. Swami of Kanchi Kama- 
koti Peetham observes, “Castes cannot be clas¬ 
sified. as, high-on low for individual of communal 
pride and vanity. They are effective in natural 
groups of individuals for the purpose of division 
of social and spiritual functions for the common 
good of the community with • particular chara¬ 
cteristics and modes of living in respect of the 
different functions of each hereditary Varna. 
The spiritual realisation of a butcher by the 
discharge of his duties as prescribed by Shastras - 
is in no way different from the' realisation of a 
pious Brahmin in the discharge of his* duties 
as in the case of Dharma Vyadha. Though the 

HINDUISM AND 

UNfoiIDHABILITY 

29 

Vedas contemplate four main Varnas'; owing to 
human weakness and consequent admixture <3f 
Varnas, different Jatis^ many of which-aYe also,' 
mentioned in the Vedas, have resulted ana\such 
jbrogrenies, instead of being ousted frpm\th<k 
Hindu fold havp been allotted special avocations 
and spiritual guidance. * * These'sub-divisiops, 
which originated for stabilizing and preserving 
the community, haVe now become a-^source of 
weakness to the mother community.” 

We may beiterppted to ask a number of ques¬ 
tions : Why then is the wheel of Hindu society 
moving in an opposite''-, direction,- ignoring the. _ 
’ rules laid down ip our scriptures ? Why has i't 
, been, .set' a-going-in defiance'of the authojrity'jdf-- 
the Arya Rishis ? ; WhoTfa,s set it in motion app¬ 
arently Jbr crushing the depressed classes ? His¬ 
tory Wars testimony that; the Hindu society 
•could not move with the spirit of tiffie due to its 
long-standing internal and external troubles. Con¬ 
sequently,the provincial usages, blind orthodoxy • 
and superstitions triumphed over the funda¬ 
mental principles as inculcated in the edifying 
teachings of our scriptures. As a result of this 
sad state of things, the Hindus have been reduc-^, 
«d to their present miserable position. / - 

‘In every sphere of this phenomenal wp/ld 

30 • HINDUISM AND UNT-OUCHABILITY' 

the old order changeth yielding place to new’,, 
and what was justifiable at one time may cease 
to be so under changed conditions. But our or¬ 
thodox present-day social leaders s,eem to think, 
that they would fail to preserve the integrity -oF 
Hinduism if they relax the- stringent restrictions- 
on the society even to a reasonable extent. So r 
at times they appear to-be oblivious of the prin¬ 
ciples of social growth which were recognized 
by the Smrities that were composed fro^n time 
to time to meet necessary social emergencies- 
Forgetting this, many conservative people Vaunt 
in season and out of season of their 'birth" fights-' 
and hierarchical glory. Most of them are obsess¬ 
ed with a false sense of prestige and are im¬ 
pervious to the creative forces working in the 
social milieu under -altered conditiohs of time. 
They overlook the fundamental principles of thfe 
Smritis, and occasionally pour out vials of venom 
on the depressed classes, not knowing that the 
social laws have also been framed by the authors^ 
of the Smritis for uplifting the low and the de¬ 
graded. to the rank of the most advanced plass'of 
society in all respects- ' < 

The present-day Hindus have ignominiously 
allowed themselves to be bound by the fetters 

s . / 

HINDUISM AND UNTOUCHApILfo 

/1 \jr 

of customs, superstitions* arid bigom 
body does not tafnejy submit to Cjrthoaox viejW 
and tries to break tjie social barriers by' destroy- 1 ‘ 
ing prejudices in /order to cre^^^Tie^'sodialv 
status for thfe depressed classes, the qonsefya- 
tive classes raise a cry .in the name of preserve-' \ 
tidn of Varnashrama ■ Dharma. Thus they-, stand \ 
^rin u th£way of ameliorating the conditions of the. 
“ejeffnlp’ed classes,. 1^ 4 touchable man drinks a ‘ 
glass of water touched yby a Scheduled Caste • 
-y-however "superiorf the datter. may be to .’the 
former in every regpject—his Dharma is consider- ' 
ed to be* polluted' 1 j He is excommunicatedlarid--- • ■ 
is no more "regarded as having any right tqriiVe 
decently in this world ! The Scheduled * Castes, 
in Malabar are forbidden jo walk 'on public 
roads ! -The Sanatani Hindus take purificatory 
bath if they happen to see any low-ca§te 
person anywhere ! Sometimes the latter is as- • 
j saulted by the former on the plea of trespass 
on public road. But the same-human being,, 
who is miscalled low-caste, becomes an equal, 
then .and there after conversion to Moha-m- 
medanism or Christianity! Evidently the Can/ . 
ker of untouchability is rampant there. Scyribt 
Indian orthodoxy is adhering to medievalism and 

32 

HINDUISM AND UNTOUCHABILITY 

is irresponsive to the demand of this twentieth 
■century. Not only in the Madras State, but in 
many villages of other States also- the barbers, 
washermen, boatmen and other professional 
classes refuse to render their respective services 
to the Harijans even to this'day. The conservative 
Hindus hesitate to buy milk, vegetables, rice, 
etc. brought by Scheduled castes for sale to vill¬ 
age markets. But they do not feel any scruple at 
all to purchase those very raw edibles brought to 
market by* any untouchable immediately after his 
conversion to Mohammedanism or Christianity. 
Rajputs and Jagirdars in the Mewar State do 
not allow- the Harijans to use umbrellas and ride 
in palanquins, and also to ride on horses. A 
public meeting of the depressed classes, held at 
Ahmedabad on the 21st Oct. 1945, passed a 
resolution drawing the attention of the Viceroy 
and the Governor of Bombay to the harassment 
of the depressed classes by the caste Hindus 
in villages resulting in the migration of the 
former to towns- But are all these the dictates of 
the V arnashrama Dharma? Does the Vamashrama 
Dharma really permit us to condemn and abhor 
a certain section of men and women as untouch¬ 
ables simply because of their birth? Does it lend 

HINDUISM AND UNTOUCHABIDITY 

si 

support to tjie imposition of unjustiiiable and 
/vexatious restraints upon a certain groilip of our 
fellow beings, as also to the contemptuous treat¬ 
ment tneted out to them? Does it allow us to keep 
down a section, of human beings who want to go- 
up by dint of tbeir good qualities, and actions? 
Swami Vivekananda, the great preacher of the 
real V amashrari\a Dharma, emphatically declar¬ 
ed : “A 'religion, which does not feel for the 
miseries of the poqr, which does not Uplift, man, 
forfeits the name of “religiq#.” Our religion has' 
degenerated,* into a creed of the ‘todchable’ and' 
* untouchable’. O ! my God, the country whose 
b^st intellects have' fo$ the last two thousand 
Vears busied themselves as to the propriety of 
-taking up food with the right"hand or left, only 
courts and deserves downfall !” 

Some supporters of the Varnashrama Dharma 
belonging to the diehard orthodox class, seek to- 
maintain their supremacy by adducing a series 
of shallow, puerile and maudlin arguments/in 
the sacred name of religion in support off heir 
autocratic notions about the Scheduled-Gastes.- 
But there is a fly in the ointment- They do not- 
care to realise this naked. truth that the mighty 
forces working for the regeneration of Hinduism ; 

34 HINDUISM AND UNTOUCHABILITY 

in this twentieth century are pregnant with a 
power which is sure to do away with the . undue - 
privileges of a certain community and the .unjusti 
fiable treatment accorded to another. Whatever 
they may say now, it is no use shutting - their , 
eyes to the illuminating fact that the underlying 
-constructive principle of thj^V-nmashrarna Dharma 
is such as ensures the gpod of humanity at large. 
It teaches its votaries to give up egoism and to 
work selflessly for common weal. In the^ei|d, it 
aims at attaining the highest spiritual perfection 
by being and becoming one withiihd -immersed 
in the Supreme Brahman. ^ 

.. -From time immemorial spirituality has been 
the very backbone of the Hindu race. A Hindu 
child is brought up and guided by the uplift¬ 
ing principles of the religion of his' forefathers 
throughout his life' and in kll spheres of his 
activities. These, principles play an important 
part in moulding his character and leading him 
to the kingdom ,of heaven. Our great ancestors, 
the Arya Rishis, organised the Hindu society" 
and laid down certain, laws to guide it in con-' 
sonance with certain eternal, principles^ - It is 
evident tha^.the .Hindu religion and society, 
although, belonging to two distinct categories, 
are so closely connected with each other that 

HINDUISM. AND TINTOUCIJABIL'ITY ' 

35 

they have comedo,-be; treated,as quite, the' s&me 
entity. The Hindu religion aims at the realisa- 
tion of the Existei^ce-KnowIedge-Bliss-/ybsiOlui 
-theoupreme Beipg, by self-sacrifice, self-confroi 
.an dfr enunciation. The'" ultimate aim and object 
of the Hindu 'society is to attain the sarpe perfbcd 
tion through various* types of activities^ App¬ 
arently it is-occupied’, with the distribution and- 
•the specialisation of I wbrk according to different 
qualities and aciipnsj of men, respiting eventually, 
in the building up of a society upon the basis of 
maximum effectiveness, mutual love and hearty 

•cooperation.' 

- r 

The ideal matt "of the Hindu society, or 
.A shrama (Dharma ,is a Brahmin. But who!is a 
Brahmin# “A,man is born as Shudra; perform¬ 
ing the jsacred thread cererhony, ‘ he becomes a 
Dwija (twice-born); going through the Ved^s, he 
becomes a Vipra; and knowing the Brahman, he 
Becomes a Brahmin.,” 9 So, a Brahmin , is the 
embodiment of purity,^morality, wisdom' and 
spirituality, that is tcf say, a man of complete 
perfection. He is said’ to be ‘Nara-Narayana , 
the synonym of which is Superman or Godmany 

^PTct f?5T I 

36 

HINDUISM'AND UNT-OUCHABILiTY 

His life is to be dedicated ‘for tire salvation, 
of his own self as well as for the good of the- 
world.’ 10 

While studying our holy scriptures we find' 
that ideal Brahmins like.Vyasa, Vashistha, Val- 
miki, Vishwamitra and'others attained ’ salvation, 
by being and becoming one with the Supreme 
Brahmin, and completely renouncing all kinds- 
of secular prospects and prosperity*, name and', 
fame, and even the sovereignty of the world as 
rrfere dust of the'street. They led lives of self : 
abnegation and self-sacrifice for the good" of" 
the society. The religion they practised for the- 
attainment of this Brahmin-hood was not the 
customary or formal religion, but that Religion, 
which underlies all other religions,and brings us. 
face to face with our Maker. The great object 
of our society is to raise the Kshatriyas, the 
Vaishyas and the Shudras to the rank of this- 
Brahmin-hood from their respective positions 
by slow, steady,, and gradual, progress. Swami 
Vivekananda, thd great reformer .of modern India,, 
said in a speech” at Kumbhakonam, Madras, Dn 
his return'in 1897 from the Chicago Parliament 
of Religions : “Such is the ideal of our caste, 

? o. muuft *fteTT*f suffemr w i 

HINDUISM AND .UNTOUCpAB 1 

Ll jlT 1 ! 

m 

meant for, raising,all humanity, -slowly and gently 
towards ^he realisation of'the great ideal of} the 
spiritual man who is/non-resisting, calm,- stekdyi x 
worshipful* pur^ and'medi’tative. In that ide&f 
there is God.” ’ The- fulfillment of this ideal\ 
entirely depends upf>n raising the untouchables ' 
to ; the cultural statuis of Hhe Brahmins. 

But our preserit-dky f society, having com- 
' pletely deviated from the great ideal of Sanatana 
Varnashrama Dharm'a j class\ system, -is seeking * 
to put a barrier on tfiej path ofits progress.’ It 
’ tete”sopp’i*fe'Ste8ch those'vj-ho rightly aspire to "gb-iip v ” 
and realize-their ideal.The weapon of offence 1 
against thenfhas been a silly caste-fantasy Iink-_ 
ed up with/food and drink. ^Ve Indians are 
familiar with the fact how the question "of food 
and drink of the Hindu society has given rise ..to 
the -depressed class problem which for centuries 
hps been a powerful obstacle to the unity and 
. the progress of the Hindu race.- 

Hinduism is said to Be the ‘religion of\the 
stomach !’ A Christian missionary sarcastically 
said : “Other religions may be seated in the , 
mind and soul, but the stronghold of Hinduism/ 
is the stomach!” Indeed, it is no u^e, disguising , 
the fact that the stomach has really become the 
,.seat-,of our present-day flinduism !' We may ■ 

38 HINDUISM AND UNTOUCHABILITY 

retain our religious faith against all arguments 
and violence, but if anybody mixes a bit of 
certain forbidden food with our dishes, or if 
perchance any so-called untouchable person hap¬ 
pens to touch our food, our j^omu-is-no-more! 
Now-a-days Hindu caste chiefly rests on food 
and drink, but it was far from being so in our 
olden days. Therefore it requires men of greater 
moral courage and of holier earnestness to • 
remove this stigma from the face, of our Var-n4--'“ 
shrama Dharma. . • , „ „ _ . s ’ 

When our scriptures declare that any food 
touched by particular classes of men should not 
be accepted, it is to be understood that^the 
prohibition is meant only to keep the mind un¬ 
affected by Tamaguna ( impurities ); for ‘mind 
is said to be the only cause of one’s bondage as 
also of liberation.’ 11 The great Shankaracharya 
interprets ‘Ahara is the act of gathering in of 
the mental impressions through perception-of— 
sound etc. by the activities of one’s five sensory 
organs.’ 12 The Chhandogyopanishad saysJ.‘jit is 

IR. vrfiiT- 

^ \ ' ‘ 

X 

HINDUISM AND UNTOUGHABlpI’TS 

the pure‘ Ahara- that purifies one’J self.’ 13 S^aihi' 
Vivekatfanda, the^Celebrated Hindu monk flaysv 
•down in his Religion of Love 

“Acchrdin^ to/ Ramanuja are thf^e 

•defects of food- which > we ifil^lt^mvoidv First,* 
jaH, the nature orispic^s of ,the food; albexcit-' 

■ ing food sjiould be avoided, meat, for instance; 
this shoul'd be avojde|l because it is by its very 
nature impure. ^ * j Eating meat is only allo¬ 
wable .to > people :,who . dcf very hard work, and: 
•who are not going’tj> be Bhaktas; but jfi you tare 
going to be Bhaktas, lyou should ^void meatj-itnd-- 
also, air e’xciting foods, such as onion, gar-lic, 
and all evil-smelling’food, as ‘‘sauerkraut”. * 

As regards food, the next thiiig is still more in¬ 
tricate to western minds,—it is what is called 
ashraya y i, e. the person from whom' it copies. 
This is father a mysterious theorynf the Hindus. 
The idea is that each man has a certain aura 
around him, and whatever he topches,, a part of 
his character, as it were, his influence i$'left on 
that thing. Just like the effluvia flowing out from 
ones body character also is said to be emitted'' 
and permeates every thing one touches. &o, yfer 

40 

HINDUISM AND UNTOUCHABILITY 

must take care, who touches our food when it' 
is cooked;—any wicked or immoral person must 
not touch it. * * The other is nimitta. It is very 
easy to understand. Dirt and dust and all these 
things must not be in the food. * * Then, we 
must not eat that food, half of which has been 
eaten by someone else,—for instance, when one 
man takes a bite of an apple and gives it "to- 
another to eat. When these things are avoided 
in food, the food becomes pure, pure food brifigs- 
a pure mind, and a pure mind,, a constant 
memory of God.” Undoubtedly these three as¬ 
pects of the food question are the only ground 
of our scriptures upon which discrimination of 
.food is based. 

Now let us see what our scriptures say ; 

Lord Krishna refused the dishes served by 

Duryodhana, the then emperor of India, but 

accepted the dishes served in the house of 

Vidura, the son of a slave Shudra-mother. While 

refusing the invitation of Duryodhana, he said, 

‘The food, which is defiled by wickedness, is 

not eatable.’ 14 He went to the residence of the 

noble'miAded'Vidura who ‘brought lots of clean 

1 _Id 

» A* 

HINDUISM AND UNTOUCHABILlT^ 

4r 

and excellently prepared food and drink for 
Mahatma KeshavaT 5 Madhusudan did noteoniy 
partake of Vidura’fe food, but also distribute^ if. 
along with riche4 arrlong the Brahmins, Wllr 
■versed in the'Vedas’. 1 ' 

> ' f t ^ ^ 

£, In the house ofTjudhisthira, the Truth In- >, 
•carnate, hundreds and thousands of Dasis (maid¬ 
servants) with pots ih hands, distributed food 
iamong the visitors (latithfs), day> and night.” 17 

“Kaushika Rishi, the best of the twice born, % 
•entered the beautiful - house^ of Dharmavyadha _ 
fa butcher).; he, .hiking^ nfferad., a seat r accepted- • 
the seat ^nd water ( achamav,a.y' u . r ' 

n. 

cr: yTrfy gyryfe y p 

'yirfy^rfy yfrurf n 

ayyqTqyyr yyy snfryrur yyyyy: i 

yyy: 'irysfyyruyfq' u 

—y^Twrer, udtyyy 

srh yrefy^ryri y?y fyyf yyjyh i 

fyyrtryyfyyry ytyy<yy n ^ 

—fMjS'r# ' 

/ 

te 

3^. srfyw y yf yryyryfyify^fyy: i 
yfyy^r fgytyy: n 

/ 

)■ 

42 

HINDUISM AND UNTOUCHABILITY 

The great epic Ramayana is also full of ins¬ 
tances in which this problem of food-has been) 
solved in the same way as in that of the great 
epic Mahabharata. When Rama was going to- 
forest in exile, his bosom 1 friend Guhaka a Nh 
shada (Ch'andala) by caste, hearing of hisfriend’s 
arrival came and offered all sorts of excel¬ 
lent food and drink, etc.” 19 But Rama was; 
banished; so, being a hermit, he could not 
accept the dishes. He therefore, ‘embraced' 
.him again with his arms.*which are fit to embrace- 
■ sages and excused himself expressing his re- 
regret.’ 20 Then again, one days‘Rama went to> 
the house of a low-class womajp named Shramanr. 
and accepted the achamana and. food provided-' 
by her.‘ 21 

In olden days, the Brahmins, who were 
generally known to be the intelligentsia or the 

\ vrrir i 

^o. ii 

• i 

tm: spnjft n 

—turunir, 

HINDUISM,-AND. UN^OUGHABILITY 43 

literary,cl ass m society,’ were adorec} tor ,tnei^ 
spiritual qualities sfnd altruistic services rfeiidetedS 
for the good of society,' BtitJjhey jhave now cbjne 
down from their former* edited positions to be 
domestic cooks, hoteh keepers etc. ! Gobkiflg is 
undoubtedly serving ,aqd is not their duty accor¬ 
ding to our. scrip'tur4s.\ Cooking is the cASte- 
Occupation of the Sh idra^. In olden times? the 
Shudras used to be^cookSv of. all. the classes of 
the Hindus. 

’ The Avastamba Samhita in very, clear te^ms 
says : 

“The 'Aryans are tne masters ana onu<~uas 
are. to cocjL food.” 88 

' Even, our great law-giver Manu, who assum¬ 
ed a ste ( rn and tyrannical attitude towards the 
Shudras, distinctly lays down : 
i “If a Sjiudra is unable to serve the twice-born 
and his wife and children are in ..distress, he 'inay 
maintain himself by karuka karma (the wpfk of 
a cook).” 23 

■-RR. wmffsrfecTT *TT ^ST: I 

srR^fr sfY%^r 11 

HINDUISM AND UNTOUCHABILITY 

u 

Then again in another context he'says : 

“Ardhika, Kulamtira, Gopala ( mjlk-.man )> 
Dasa (slave) and Napita (barber)—the cooked 
food of all these classes of Shudras can be eaten, 
as also of any one who offers to the Self.” 31 

The reputed law-giver Yajnavalkya also sup¬ 
ports the same view. 23 

Sayings exactly of this kind are to be found 
in the Yama Samhita and Paroshara Samhita as 
well. 

It is clear from the above'-that'food’is not 
polluted by the touch of any class of men but 
by the wickedness of the person that touches. 
The ghudras used to be cooks of the Brahmins 
in olden days although it is objected to at pre¬ 
sent. 

Moreover, in our glorious days, no class of 
men were subjected to such repression and dis¬ 
tress as our present-day depressed classes bj^ 
being designated as untouchables merely for the 

^x snhw: »frqwr SHunfacff) " 

TTfarm n 

f — 

fTlf'UT^ II 

HINDUISM^ND UNfbUCHABJCLITYV ^5 

-accident, of their Iqirlh for which no -ipaq ,ib 
'vir,tu%Hy'responsibly- The Vedic Rishis prfeach- 
ed the fundaf^en 
•difference .only in 
litres. Questions c|f their ‘touphability’ /afid, ‘un- 
touchability’ had no r ( efyreqce to birth. But they 
were based on the {jpofl df bad mofal or immoral, 
religious or irreligiou^ character pf men belong¬ 
ing to alkthejour^stes,. 

The eminent brthodox Hindu leader' Lpk- 
mariya'Bal Ganga'dhajr ’ Tilak said - . There.i^[np. 
Basis in the Hindu ‘ 'SEastras for untouchability'. 
History tola them that on the 1 battle-field water 
was carried for, drinking in leather bags by the 
so-called, untouchables. * *' It is Inevitable 
and most urgent that they should be educated 
and given opportunity for the service of the 
jcountry and for the sacred cau§e of the Mo¬ 
therland.” It is true that some t of the modern 
Smritis prohibit eating food from the ppts of 
some particular Shudras, but - this is quite diffe¬ 
rent from partaking of food prepared by Shudras- 
The reason is clear : A Shudra’s .pot may 
be clean and pure, and by his touch, a Tamasika 
( impure ) influence may he Jeftron the food, 
hence the prohibition. T^his interdict, however, 

tjal equality of man, qllowihg 
respect of character and bu^’ 

46 

HINDUISM AND UNTOUCHABILITY 

was relaxed in cases of unavoidable erpergencies- 
Now-a-days, the pots of the majority of the so- 
called Harijans are as clean and pure, and their 
qualities and actions' are as good as those of the 
so-called • touchable high castes ; nay, in some- 
instances, much better. Now, “the difference- 
between the Brahmins and Shudras,” in the 
language of Medhatithi, the celebrated commen¬ 
tator of the* Manu Samhita, “is not as between 
cows and horses !” Really the difference is as- 
between tweedledum and tweedle/lee. 

Too often it is the case * - th^''rights and 
privileges are claimed byffkelhigher castes on 
account of birth rather-thar^pha^adter and quali¬ 
ties. Caste is now hereditary trather than fun¬ 
ctional. Brahmins, for instance^re not wanting: 
who may not have even turned the pages of the 
Vedas, may not even know the Sandhya ( the 
morning, noon and evening prayers of a Brah¬ 
min ), not even the Gayatri ( a very sacred yerse 
repeated by every Brahmin at the time of his-, 
Sandhya) r yet- they are Brahmins all the same 
and desire to be respected ! While there are 
Harijans or Shudras, who though well-versed in_ 
the Vedic lore, are abhorred and shunned E 
This is an absurd state of things, and social 
reformers will do well to show what in its origin 

4 

HINDUISM AlJID UNTOUCHABILIT 

47 

was not objectionable has become a tefrible 
superstition arid a$ foqfish as tjie fable df 
the cat, which,\hough, weli-^Apwn, is/wor'ih. 
repeating: 

“A great spiritual paj|P&fKo bad a cat in his 
house, used to tie up tljie animal when he retired 
as it used to disturb h|im i^ at liberty. By and 
by, 1 , the. people indhe locality were stupid enough, 
to think that' to possess a cat and tie it up when 
proceeding* tb'-perforh^ their ’ religious rites * was-f 

necessary arid’in acOord with Sadachar or ap¬ 
proved practice, having lost \sight of the'true- 
reason for me action of the great personage: 
whom they, believed they were 1 imitating. S,uch 
really to py mind is the case in regard to un- 
touchability which now prevails -.to the utter 
discredit of our riation, and it i§ to be devoutly 
wished that this cause of discredit-should cease: 
to be a hindrance at no distant date to national- 
progress and well-being.” 2J 

Now-a-'days, no educated man, excepting a. 
few die-hard bigots, sincerely believes in tb^ 
efficacy of the present-day caste system which 

26 Presidential address delivered by Justice"'Sijbrahinanya Iyer, 
at a meeting held at Mylapore, Madras, in coromeo?b^tion of the 
great Tamil saint and poet Tiruvalluvaj: of Tiru Kura) 
of Valluva caste. The Indian Social ReformcT/1915■ 

48 

HINDUISM AND. UNTOUCHABILITY 

entirely rests on one’s privilege of birth and on' 
a curious notion of touch-fantasy. Unfortunately 
this microscopic educated minority._is generally 
seen to be swayed by the influence of the over¬ 
whelming ignorant majority sunk in antiquated 
social customs and superstitions. Thus our 
society has become a drag and the younger gen¬ 
eration is compelled to accept .the existing' 
social evils against their conyiction. 'As a result, 
many ; of them, are seen-to be'diametric^lly^ppo- 
site in their social and private lives f ^ JjjvejiJnow 
many high Caste people go to Relish dainties 
in public restaurants, and yet whei^ ( they come 
out of those places,'they pose as’ leaders of 
society and guardians of Dharma and frame 
rules to support ‘don’t touchism !’ Therefore, 
the sooner we turn over a new social leaf, the 
better it will be for ourselves and for the re^- 
putation of our forefathers whom - we revere so 
much. \ „ 

To turn to our subject: Where are we Hindus 1 
drifting? Ponder over the state of our custom- 
ridden present-day society which is going on 
in a devil-may-care way laying aside the teach¬ 
ings of our scriptures. Now, the Hindu society 
is following neither the Vedas and Vedantas, 
nor the Smr^tis and Puranas, nor the foot-prints 

HINDUISMv^D'UN'rOUCbCA6fLlt"v S '. ^ 4 ^ 

of our fevered Rjshis of old, nor our religious' 1 
reformers; but\it is beikig ^ossed' about lik.e\a 
vessel in the midst: of aj tempestuous oc^an with 1 - \ 
out its'rudder. There ipas been hardly hnyl pilot’ 
to steer the vessel of the Hindu society for some 
time past. Consequently, the local and provim 
• cial customs and us£ges,\ resulting from he^e- - 
ditary superstitions and bigotry,’are'standinglin 
the way to,our nafippal. solidarity and-progrejss.- „ , 
On a study of the social.conditions ofxhe 
glorious ages of Hindus, one will find that-in 
those periods, the caste system w4s based on the 
qualities and actions of men, and Its so]e object - 
was to raise all .fnembers of the society to Brafi- 
min-hoqd. The object of food and drink usages 
was to save the entire body of the' society from 
(Tamaguna or corruption. They did not repress 
any group of their fellow brethren that consti¬ 
tuted part and parcel of the Hindu society. vShri 
Ramachandra and Shri Krishna, the great Ava- 
taras, wfp won for themselves $ place in the/ 
hearts of all the Hindus, clearly preached this 
doctrine underlying the caste and touch system. 
They were followed by all the later reformers. 
Lord Budha the veritable image of universal 
brotherhood the world has ( ever- seen, was born 
a divine redeemer of the fallen, the low, the 

-50 HINDUISM AND UNTOUCHABILITY ' ' 

/V 

untouchable and the depressed all fee world over*. 
The Jain Tirthankars preached & a thundering 
voice; “Non-injury- as the—supre|pe religion.” 27 
Ramananda, "Madhya, Nimbarkd:, Ramanuja, 
Chaitanya and other VaishnavitfS reformers of 
India were breakers of caste and*' touch-system 
based on birth. 

Krishnadasa 'Kaviraja Goswami narrates in 
his Chaitanya Charitamrita, an'"'Authoritative 
scripture of the Gaudiya Vaishnavas, that Rai 
Ramananda, a house-holder devotee of a very 
high order and ah erudite scholar belonging to 
Shudra caste, naturally hesitated, inspite of - 
repeated requests, to expound the Radha-Krishna 
cult of the' Bhagavata to Sri Chaitanya,' who 
was an aristocratic Brahmin by birth and also a 
Sannyasin. Therefore, the latter, with a view 
to removing the doubts of the former, said : “A 
Brahmin, or a Sannyasin, or even a Shudra,, who 
knows the mystery of Krishna, is my prefceptqr.” 
The Vai'shnava Tashini, another holy text of 
the Vaishnavas, holds the same view. It says; 
“Even a Chandala should be taken as the best, 
of the Brahmins if he is endowed with devgtion. 

TUTt l 

7 t V \ ' 

' / l ' < *- Y _ v 

^ HINDUISM AND 'UNTOUCHABILITY / ,v' 0,1 

I . './• v 

to Hari,” 23 It is distinctly mentioned in thq Sri "> 
<Chaitanya Cnaritjamrua that Sri Chaifanya, s pn\- 
Ris way to a pilgifimade to.Prayaga frotn Vrlnad- \ 
-vana, converted a barjd of Mohamiliecjan Pathan 
•cavalry to Vaishna|/i4m and v admitted them 
Socially into his sdctP Vrindavan Das' writes 
an his Sri Chaitan'ya Bhagavata, -a very sacred' 
"book' of the"Vaishnavas, that he, who makes- 
•distinctions^ of .‘castes' among the Vaishnavjiss;in¬ 
born miserably agajn- and- agafti." * So," it is clear 
"that according to Vaishnavism, as soon as a‘man 
Becomes/ a Vaishnava, he inbound'to lay aside 
all kinds of caste considerations and—touch fal¬ 
lacies- ^But alas, now-a-days— 

a Their sanctity rests more or less 
On what they eat and how they cook!” 

Most of the presently Vaishnavas are not' 
•courageous enough to jjca'rry taut the catholic 
code of their great masters. , " * 

Ram Mohan Roy, ibeshab Chandra Seny 
Dayananda Saraswati, Ramakrashna, Viveh& : 
nanda and other epoch-making, reformers of 
modern India emphatically preached against 
this anti-Hindu caste and touch system existing 

52 

HINDUISM AND UNTOUCHABlLlTY 

in our present-day society. They, urged the-, 
necessity for justice and of removing all disabi¬ 
lities imposed upon the depressed classes in the- 
name of our ancient culture and Hindu religion. 
Swami Vivekananda said : “The present day re¬ 
ligion of the Hindus is not in the Vedas, nor in 
the Puranas, nor in Bhakti, nor in Muhti-religion 
has entered into the cooking-pot. The, present 
day religion o'f the Hindus is neither the path of' 
knowledge^.:nor .-that” of reason—itiis , '“Don’t ’ 
touchism,’ ‘Don’t touch me !’ ‘Don’t touch 
me !’—that exhausts its description. See that 
vou do not lose your live in this dire irreligion 
of ‘Don’t touchism’. -Must the teaching-—‘Look 
upon all beings as your own self’ 29 -—be confined 
to books alone ? How will they grant salvation 
who cannot feed a hungry mouth with a crumb • 
of bread ? Ho\v will those, who become impure = 
at the mere breath of others, purify others ? 
‘Don’t-touchism’ is a form of mentaLdisea^e VJ 
The Scheduled Castes have long been shufi 
out from religion. They are not allowed to en¬ 
ter into temples and worship images’or to chant 
the Vedic hymns and pray. If any person of the 
Scheduled Caste being_ of a religious turn of" 

A 

HINDUISM AND UNTOUCHABI^ITY 53 

/ K 

mind, wants to evok& God’s grace 'by ecstatic, 
devotion, he is laughed at / by our orthodox clas¬ 
ses and his devotional f^rvodr is characterised^ 
-as sheer- madness, i 'Not only'^this, he is-^flSo 
humiliated, ridiculejdy insulted, ,\and if .possible 
driven away as a wiet<|h \fit* to worship stones 
and devils! In thejmidst\ofthis kind of un-' 
merited persecution ■ .and N awful .degradation^, 
there sprang many' Stable 'paints in different 
•■parts of our\country v 'ffrorh' the ‘■sp-'called-untojrr' 
chable classes.- Among ‘ then! some were tpe i 
chief disciplefe of the saints who are still wor¬ 
shipped as incarnation of God, 'and some were 
independent religious reformers of very high 
order. Tjhby are as yet held in high esteem and - 
reverence! from the Himalayas to. Kanya Kuinari. 

I Tiruppana, also called/Munivahana, who is 
honoured as one of the V&ishnavite Alwars-of 
Southern India; was a Pariah. He 1 was brohi- 
bited to approach the precincts of'the famous 
temple at Srirangam which is situated on the 
northern bank of the Cauvery. The saint used/ 
to take his seat daily on the southern bank pf 
the sacred river with his face turned towards 
the temple for meditating, and singing songs in 
parise of Ranganatha, the' deity of the temple* 
On one such occasion, Loka S^ranga Muni, a 

54 

HINDUISM AND UNTOUCHABILITY 

priest of the temple, came there -to take water- 
for Worship-of the Lord. But he, having found 
the outcaste Tiruppana on the other side of the 
river, could not take water; TuT'it 'would be, he 
thought, polluted by the presence of the out¬ 
caste ! The priest, therefore, flung a stone at 
the saint to scare him away. It caused him severe 
wound and profuse bleeding therefrom. Tirup- 
p an advent away quietly without any feeling of 
vengeance. That .very night Ranganatha is said** 
to "Have appeared before the priest in his dfeaijt 
and rebuked him for the heinous act. The 'L(jra 
ordered him to bring the saint on his shoulders, 
to Him in expiation. of his sin. Loka Sa|anga^ 
Muni had implicit faith in the Lord. He actaHji$ i -’' 
carried out His command which was against the 
time-honoured convention of the temple. Tradi¬ 
tion goes that Tiruppana chanted a Tamil poem 
in His presence in ecstatic devotion,and merged 
in Him. An image of this renowned saint h^d ' 
been installed within the precinct of the temple. 

An .analogous tradition is connected with 
N^ndanar, the' celebrated Saivite saint of the 
Pariah caste. It is said that Nataraja command¬ 
ed a priest to allow the saint to enter into the 
sanctum of the famous temple at Chidambaram. 
The other priests, doubting the authenticity of 

A 

HINDUISM AND UNtOUCHABItJ-TYi 55 

the comtnand, arranged a sort of "bonfire in/ffont 
•of the shrine fox testing'/his purity, and saintlb, 
:ness. Nandanar' unhesitatingly walked over ihe v 
burning fire unhur^ and entered inM t$e Lord 
and became 6ne with Him.- Thejdjypucal 't'hev- 
,aram ( Tamil-hymn!), fvhich he Irfan ted on this 
ocdasion, is being 1 recited \ with devotion by all 
the'Saivite devotees.all,over Southern India,even, 
to this day. 1 \ , 

■-Ghokk'a;“an AtTs'hujf fu saint o'F .Maharashtjra., 
-was not allowed entrance into' the famous terp- 
ple at Pandafcpur. He used to' pray to the Lord 
of the temple from a safe distance. It was a 
pretty longtime before the conservative - priests- 
of the temple were compelled to allow hin\ tcF 
enter into the shrine because t>f his uncommon 
spirituality and unalloyed purity. , 

It ^.exceedingly interesting fo notice that 
the images of the untouchable saints Tiruppana 
Alwar, Nandanar Chokamela and hHmpodwan 
are daily worshipped and their birth-day cere¬ 
monies observed in Srirangam, Chidambaram 7 
and Madura temples by the orthodox Brahmfn 
priests even to this,day. The wonder of won¬ 
ders is that our brethren ‘jthe caste 
eluding the deified Brahmins deem themselves 
really fortunate to seek salvation in the submpe.^ 

56 HINDUISM AND UNTOUCHABILJTY 

teachings of those so-called untouchable saints- 
On the other hand, it testifies to the catholic 
.spiritual-outlook and the highmindedn^ss of a 
.section of the conservative Brahmins. , 

•Hindusthan witnessed many great religious- / 
movements started by the saints and holy men ^ 
sprung from the untouchable classes. Their 
lives and teachings are embellished witb,ma,ny, 
legends and miracles. The culture, which, 
emanated from-them, fertilised'the'spiritual soil 
-of India. 

The celebrated Vaishnavite reformer Rama- 
nanda, being ostracised for breaking the rigid 
law of caste and'touch in course of his pilgrim¬ 
age, founded, in a spirit of protest, a sect of his 
•own which spread far and wide in the medieval 
period. Ruhidas alias Ravidas and Kabirdas 
were very influential apnong his twelve chief 
favourite disciples. Their sacred names have 
become household words all over I^ncjia. We 
find in the Bhaktamala, a very popular scripture 
of the 'Vjaishnavas that Ruhidas was born of the 
Chdmar caste, whose caste-trade is to deal in 
hide and leather. The great Chamar devotee used 
constantly to... chant Vishnu’s name in rapture 
while,'.tanning.the hide. The legendary anecdote 
is devout career, as narrated by an author 

about^h 

HiNDuVsk and'untoucIha^ilixy- 

07 

J 

I I ’ 

f : ity,'tells us that he rose to the highly honoured 
position ofV spiritual gujde' frOm his lowestposi- 
tion struggling, witjh poverty, persecution and 
tyranny. He initiated hufcdpeds. apd/thousands 
■of people inti his\ hew faith. Mirabai, a dis¬ 
tinguished votaress belonging to a 'royal family 
of Rajputana, anld Shradas, a celebrated .lyric 
■sage of the 'United' Provinces,-were the disciples- 
.• -of Ruhidas. Influential' • Vaishnava seats still 
•exist in the namdsof both the saints.- -Kafeirdasy * 
-who ca^ne of the Mohammedan ^Julaha’ commu¬ 
nity, bojSly preached monotheism, to the Hindus 
and'Kjfohammedans alike denouncing all images. 
He successfully organised a vast religious sect of 
iris own in his provinpe. Tulsidas', the-author df 
the Hindi Ramayana , Guru Kfanak, the-founder 
•of the Sikh religion, Sena, a mystic &aintdlailing 
■from the barber caste, and D.hana, a sage coming $ 
•ofjjHie Jat caste, were his renowned'disciples/'*' 
fpbir’s son Kamal and Kamal Vdi&eiple - 
^-although Mohammedans by birth,"^Ir^To^^e'fs 
-of two big sects and preacpers*of t'fre.uprty of 
Hinduism and Islam. Garibdasi a'®fe|^aihmedan 
disciple of Dadu was a reputed saihfe He was the 

originator of a religious sect which professed a 
liberal faith. , 

Tiruvalluvar was a celebrated 

Valluva saintV^ 

-58 HINDUISM AND UNTOUCHABILITY 

He is looked upon as an incarnation of Saraswatii 
and his memorable work the Tirukural is called 
the Panchama Veda or Tamil Veda- A shrine- 
exists in his honour in the-suburb of Madras- 
where actual worship of the saint takes place- 
daily. 

Imbued with the lofty teachings of Rama- 
nujacharya and Madhwacharya, Srikrishna Chai- 
tanya appeared on the soil of Bengal, prepared 
by the life long spiritual activities of the lyric 
poets Jayadeva, Chandidas and Vidyapati. He- 
and his chief follower Nityananda preached a 
doctrine of love and. devotion to all men irre¬ 
spective of their castes and creeds. They in¬ 
itiated many Buddhists and Mohammedans in¬ 
to Vaishnavism. The writers of the Vaishnava 
hagiology testify to the fact that Haridas Thakur,, 
who was best known as Brahma Haridas, al¬ 
though an untouchable, was a very pious'and’ 
devout devotee among the most favoured follo¬ 
wers of Sri Ghaitanya. It is stated in the Sri 
Chaitanya Chariiamrita that on one occasion 
Haridas said to Sri Chaitanya in a mood of humi¬ 
lity : “I am untouchable. So I beseech you not 
to touch me.” Sri Ghaitanya replied : “I touche 
you to be purified. Because, you are purer than, 
a Brah m in or a Sannyasin.” The sacred memory 

$ 

HINDUISM AND UNTOUCHABILITY \ 59 

of this'canonised devotee is still cherished wifcjh 
reverence by the Vaishnavas. V 

Thus Sadhna, Charandas, Mulukdas, Chandi- 
das, Balaram Hadi, Kesha Pagla, Chokhamela, 
bJampudwan and innumerable other saints, who 
sprang from the untouchable classes, founded 
•many well-organised \and influential religious 
sects in their respective provinces throughout 
India. These illustrious saints worked with might 
and main not only to do away with the canker 
of untouchability but also to pave the wajy for 
essential unity between the Hindus and Muslims. 
“They were scorned, insulted and driven away 
from h times and temples. But the saints flinch¬ 
ed not. Through persecution, through scorn and 
infamy, they stuck to their faith, followed the 
light that shone in their souls. Nor did they bear 
any ill will towards those that persecuted them. 
The meekness, the devotion, and che perfect 
saintliness of them are indeed memorable for all 
time. * * While Buddha and Sankara roll on 
like mighty rivers, these little streams'too shall 
not flow unnoticed ; the weary, traveller or peas¬ 
ant may often turn to them and refresh himself 
in their pure waters. T° 

30 . India’s Untouchable Saints by K.V.R. Ramaswami B.A. 

.60 HINDUISM.AND UNTOUCHABILITY 

It is generally believed that the key to the 
door of modern Hinduism is in.the possession of 
a few top-ranking high caste people who' have 
erected a strong barricade of~'‘don’t touchism’ 
around them in the name of.our scriptures. This 
has become an instrument of oppression in their 
hands, and is felt as such by the leaders of the 
down-trodden.people. In the eyes of the latter 
it is hatred pure and simple that has been the 
moving spirit of the conservative high castes, in 
dealing with the Scheduled Castes. Those who 
hold that the religious achievement of a person 
does not consist so much in the cultivation <?f 
the spirit of love as Krishna, Buddha, Jesus and 
Ramakrishna, Vivekanan da pro claimed, as in 
observing .certain' superstitious formalities of 
caste, having a strong background of hatred, de¬ 
serve the opprobrious epithet of lunatics. Swami 
Vivekananda was of opinion that the old priest¬ 
craft is entirely responsible for the present plight 
of the Hindu society. He declared : “Root out 
•pries ter aft-from-the‘old religion' 'and you ge’t the 
best religion in the world. Do you understand 
me ? Can you make a European society with 
India’s religion ? I believe it is possible and must, 
be. * * Our ancestors freed religious thought, 
and we have a wonderful religion; but they put a 

, HINDUISM AND Ul^TDUCHABIDiTY’^/l- 6,1 

7 '■ / f . J 

"heavy cljain on the: feet of society, anddur socie¬ 
ty is, in one ,word, ' horrid, ‘diabolical ! In the 
A^est, society always' h^d\ fr'eedorti, and loblf at 
v them.. On the/Other hancbJ'qok at tqeir religion, 
liberty is the first condition ^bftgroWii Just as 
a man must have liberty toj thinb-and speak, 
so he must have liberty in Jjbod; clmss arid, imar- 
xiage and in eyery other thing;• so long as Ihe does 
mot injure, others. * * Try fo Revive ^society ©n 
the old grounds of universal' salvation equa¬ 
lity as laid d&wn by the’ dhjl Masterly, ^uch a& 
Sahkaracharya^ Ramanuja -and Chajtany; 
Bewaje ! All expansion i§ life,, all contraction is 
■death. All lqve is/ -'expansion, all- selfishness is 
-contraction. jLove'is, therefore, the onlgylaw of 
life. He who lov^s, lives; he whods" "selfiish is 
dying.” I t \ • "• \ 

In the interest \of the Hindu-religion itself, it 
-ought to be qle^r to, its followers, that the reten¬ 
tion of the existing laws of caste based on'hatred 
must necessarilfy drive a considerable section of 
the' depress^d 'class -Hindus to despair; The r latter- 
will tre'cornpolled to seek 'th.eir social salvation 
by e/ribracing Christian or Mohammedan faith. 
Already a large number of. the Hindus', mostly 
belonging to the backyard -and- ttibal classes 
all over India, have becpme Mohammedansand 

1 

62 

HINDUISM AND UNTOUCHABILITY 

Christians and. their number is increasing yeay 
after year due to ill-treatment iheted out to them - 
and disabilities imposed .upon them by the upper 
classes. The untouchable Hindus turn ’ into 
touchables and enjoy equal rights and privileges- 
.by becoming Christians or Mohammedans then. 
and there. Mr. Rajagopalachariar, who was the- 
Chief Minister to the Governmenf^orNMadras- 
during the congress regime, stateJjjJt a meeting' 
of the Indian Ghristians held at thedRubertson 
Y.M.C.A., Nagpur, in December,. 1944 ; “You. 
have seen with your own eyes in the villages, 
that the untouchables are not allowed to tdke 
water from village wellsf but” the very moment' 
they are converted to Christianity they can use 
the wells of the village. I am not pleading that 
it is logical, but as soon as a Harijan becomes a 
Christian he is entitled by the social law to take- 
water from the village well. The Harijan 
untouchable who is a Hindu cannot ‘-touch’this 
water, but the moment he is baptised he uses- 
the water without the help of any. constable.. 
That is the good influence you spread by being' 
everywhere, and the social law itself helps you. 

If a Hindu untouchable becomes a Muslim he is 
entitled to “touch” ! Similarly about Christians. 
Therefore, even the lowest in the social scheme- 

HINDUISM ANSj'gNsfCi'tJC^ABILITf.r' "'6$ 

in India’s dark cor^'^'can^.by' t becoming Chris¬ 
tian, enjoy the^Jp&iviieges^’ 

It is no -exaggeration to sayjdhat- the greatest 
number'of the Mohammedans / J a^'Christians of\ 
India are converts from the HindJ^-NDr. Shyama 
Prasad Mookerjee, President, /All-India Hindu; 
Mahasabha, analysing the causes -an'^ conse¬ 
quences of this suicida^ policy of'the Hindu 1 so-; - 
ciety, observed': “But have we ever asked our- 1 
selves why it i^' that such a lar'ge nupb^r of 
people left the Hindu faith and took/tp apotjier 
religion ? I shall exdude those who were K forded 
to do so by\the fear of sword, but surely hqt hn 
h inconsiderable) nurriber of our brethren also left 
because of the| ineqhities and hardshipsthat con¬ 
fronted them in j their own ■ society. Untrue to- 
our highest tracjitiofis, we occupied 1 ourselves, 
with outward forms and practices and forgot the 
absorbing capacity of otir religion- This rigidity' 
destroyed our .strength ■ and solidarity-,- ejndecn-; 
tributedrto our idpwnfal}.“ Some "say that it is. 
not hatred but customs handed down from gene¬ 
ration/ that have tied the Repressed- classes to the 
gallipg yoke of the orthodox high- castes, there¬ 
fore, no attention need be drawn to their cause. 
If it is not hatred, notwithstanding cufThe^good 
interpretations attributed to it, how could^a bigote*. 

64 

HINDUISM AND UNTOUCHABILITY 

justify his deeds of flagrant injustice done to the 
untouchables in the name of custom, while he 
himself is, seen to violate the same in his daily 
life in a hundred different ways ? Be it an out¬ 
come of custom or anything, it must be admit¬ 
ted that it has caused the depressed classes to 
smart under the vilest type of tyranny of the 
orthodox higher classes and has thus cast a slur on 
the good name of Hinduism itself. Therefore, “to 
lift them from the position to which Hindu so¬ 
ciety has reduced them is,” in the very language 
•of Mahatma Gandhi, “to remove a big blot on 
Hinduism. The present treatment of these clas¬ 
ses is a sin against religion and humanity.” 

Let us frankly admit that the Hindus are 
in a confused and morbid condition today, be¬ 
cause they have not been socially loyal to their 
own religion which requires them to look upon 
'‘all living beings as Brahman.’ 31 A renowned 
Western tourist asked an eminent Indian admirer 
-of Hindu philosophy : “If your philosophy is so 
lofty, why is the Hindu society in such a degrad¬ 
ed condition ?” The latter, in reply, quoted 
Gita and said that the Hindus had not translat- 

3L I 

■— 

HINDUISM AND' UNTOUCHABILITY 65 

\ ‘ d 

ed their philosophy into action. The learned 
'tourist agreed and remarked : “There have 
been endless discussions ds .to whether the ulti¬ 
mate teaching of the Gitp is action, or devotion 
or knowledge, and no final decision has been 
arrived at. Perhaps there Will always remain 
enough room for controversy in this vexed ques¬ 
tion.' But there is -no doubt about the fact that 

' i .1 . 

‘action’must-at-least be - a means to a lugher 
end. And few people have taken care of the 
means. The result is talk, talk,,talk, and a bar¬ 
ren philosophy !” It is really an indisputably 
glaring fact that notwithstanding the grand 
philosophy of the Hindus, hitherto unsurpassed 
by any other ethical code evolved by any civilised 
nation, they are very sadly lacking in their ardour 
to put its precepts into action—specially in their 
social lives. The disparity between their theory 
and practice has been the root cause of their 
degeneration and downfall. Swami Vivekananda 
emphatically declared : “No religion on earth' 
preaches the dignity of humanity in such a lofty 
strain as Hinduism and no religion on earth 
treads upon the necks of the poor and low in 

such a fashion as Hinduism. The Lord has 

/ 

shown me that religion is not at fault, but it is 
the Pharisees and Sadducees in Hinduism, hypo- 

■66 

HINDUISM AND UNTOUCHABIJLITY 

c'rites, who invent all sorts of doctrines of Para- 
marthika and Vyavaharika (absolute and relative) 
truth.*' 

Hinduism is founded on the Vedanta. This 
sublime philosophy comprises the psychology of 
•dualism, qualified non-dualism and non-dualism 
which differ from one another slightly in views 
and rituals only. It does not identify itself with 
any particular school ofiphilosophy nor does it 
harbour any sectarian doctrine. It comprehends 
all systems of spiritual thoughts and sects with 
their respective symbols, ceremonials and rituals. 
The various aspects and various phases of the 
Vedanta philosophy have a central truth—a 
•common ground of psychology which has been 
recognised by the different religions of the 
world. The highest ethical ideal of the Vedanta 
is the attainment of universal love in its purity 
and fulness destroying all distinct traits of per¬ 
sonality. It eliminates the duality of the Creator 
and the created—God and man. So, there is no 
warrant for seeking sanction of Hinduism while 
we look down upon a group of our brothers and 
•sisters as untouchables and impose arbitrary 
restrictions upon them under the plea of time- 
honoured customs and Dharma. • 

HINDUISM AND UNTOUpHABILITY , 6^ 

\ - - 
N # f t 

The Advaita or non-duahstic Vedanta is' 
-profound both in philosophy and theology. Its 
highest realisation is- oneness, which,. when-pre- 
perly interpreted, means an absence\of all disti-^ 
notions between the One Supreme Eternal ,A11- 
pervading God and the soul of rpan—between I 
and ^ou-r-between mine and thine. , The Katho- 
panishad.says 1 : ‘He is One, has all things under 
His control, ts the Soul of all souls ancl makes 
.His One Self hppear as many. Those of serene 
mind who realize Him inside their own selves, 
enjoy eternal bliss and not others.” 32 ' The Gita 
which cohliainsNthe -essence of- the'Vedanta, 
•declares |‘The 3ame I am to all beings; there 
-is none-woythy of hatred -or love to^Me* "Verily, 
-they, who worship Me with devotion, are in Me 
.apd I am also in them.” 33 Thus Dord Krishna 
found the true basis of equality in'the recogni¬ 
tion of all souls as .essentially divine. He dis¬ 
carded the artificial social distinctions by dec¬ 
laring : “Those who take refuge in me (the^ 
Divine), O ! Partha, though born of a'sinful 
-origin, women, Vaishyas, even Shudras, also 

Vh wi 5T|'IT g: ,1 

gkretgr *pr srrerfi 11 

68 

HINDUISM AND UNTOUCHABILITY 

attain to the highest goal (liberation).” 34 We find 
in the Hindu scriptures that the great saints- 
Vachaknavi, Maitreyi, Samvarta, Raikwa,. 
Dharma Vyadha and others, who were either 
women or outside the pale of the Varnashrama 
Dharma, also attained salvation. It is regrettable 
that the present-day Hindu society is not .prac¬ 
tically following this highest ideal, of equality. 
This is really a defect which has to be remedied 
now, and the Hindu society is to be reconstructed 
on the basis of the Vedantic teachings embodied 
in the Gita. 

To a real Vedantin all the different names 
and forms are mere illusion, this world is per¬ 
vaded by Maya, this life is a dream. The cause 
of our dualistic perception is ignorance. But be¬ 
hind the phenomena of this manifested universe 
of senses, there is One Reality without a second 
Who is appearing as many. When this One 
Omnipotent, Omniscient, Unchangeable, Abso¬ 
lute Brahman or soul, manifested in various- 
forms, .is realised, the illusory idea of plurality 
vanishes, just as the illusory appearance o£a 

3 =. SPTbf it iafrsfHT H Br^r: I 

if -ffsrhcf 3 nr nrfir a 35 i 

—Derr 

HINDUISM AND UNTOUGHAtJIDIT Y 69 

snake is changed into a piece of rope’. Thus a 
Vedantin, having seen the One Absolute God 
dwelling alike in all be^igs and ill things,\ dec¬ 
lares that all living beings are God, God is all 
living beings, ‘alj living beings are nothing slWt 
of God.’ 35 So, according to the Vedanta,' menV- 
nay all animate,beings are not only the creation 
of God, but' God fjimself. Hence ‘if a. man 
'eayeth, I love 1 God', and hateth his brother, 'he 
is a liar.’ 36 ' 

’ The wonderful dpctrine of Advaita or one- 
: ness is a well-grojunde^d principle necessary for 
the cultivation of-juniversal love, before which-- 
even the doctrine of the brotherhood qf man 
’ pales into-in significance. Jesus Ghrist saitL: “If- 1 
the world hates* you, you know that it hated me 
before if hated you.” 57 The- IshopanisKad _says : 
“The yise man, who perceives all beings as not 

*rf f| qT«f srofaur Srsfq- *5: i 

TwrtcTTr Tif% to i (P. 68) 

• —*fftrr 

U fqnr: I 

— 

36 . The New Testament 

—St John 

37 . The New Testament 

—St Matthew. 

70 HINDUISM AND UNTOUCHABILITY 

distinct from his own self at all, and his own self 
as the self of every 'being, does not, by virtue of 
that perception, hate any one.” 38 The application 
of this highest principle of the Advaita Vedanta 
which proclaims the One Eternal Existence:- 
Knowledge-Bliss Absolute hidden in all brings, 
high and low, would solve the problem of the 
down-trodden Harijans of India. It^vvould rouse 
up their faith in.themselves, and teach others to 
regard and worship them as the veritable mani¬ 
festations of God Himself. 

—fulihuicr 

,:HINDU$SM' AND ‘DNTOUCH ABILITY 

SECOND CHAPTER 

(National) 

“Forget not that the lower classes, the 
ignorant, ,thfe poor, the illiterate, the cobbler, 
the sweeper are thy flesh and bloocbAhy 
brothers." 

—Swami Vivekananda. 

Hinduism 
an d 

llntouchability 

i 

I t is quite const'sijent with the teachings ,of 
history to 'say. tEjat neither the forma tipnjof 
a common nationality nor democracy is possible 
in India so /long as her people, continue to be 
heterogeneous due to the divisions *of castes and 
creeds as fney happen to be jiow. The Indian 
patriots unanimously adimt that the conflict of 
interests between the depre'ssd classes and the 

» i 

privileged orthodox ones is so sharp, that it has 
put formidable obstacles on the path of national 
.■solidarity which is India’s prime desideratum at 
present for her progress and well-being. Of 
course a clash of interests and differences there 

is and shall always be, but this should’not'bef 
.at the cost of unity, co-operation' and frien,aly 
intercourse among the members of the different 
communities, as has beer! the case in our country 
for centuries. 'It would not be an exaggeration 

73 

"74 

HINDUISM AND UNTOUCHABILITY 

at all to say that in India even the conflict of 
interests between the Englishmen and the In- 
-dians, sometimes and in some fields, sinks into* 
insignificance when compared with that between 
■ the touchables and the untouchables. Therefore,, 
it is the first and foremost duty of every pat¬ 
riotic Indian to reconcile and re-adjust the diffe¬ 
rences between the Brahmins and the Pariahs- 
by organising our society de-novo in' consonance 
with our religion as well as with the spirit of 
the age. The insistent agitation for the establi¬ 
shment of democratic government in a country,, 
where the demos is not integrated into one- 
social whole and is not inspired by a common 
cause, is like pouring water on the • branches, 
of a tree while starving its stem and roots. - 
All patriotic sons of India, who have serio- 
uslv addressed themselves to the,task of national 
regeneration, firmly hold the belief that India- 
can be emancipated from her abject position of 
hewers of wood and drawers of water within a. 
-short time by means of national unity. Indeed,, 
by national unity and solidarity alone economic- 
autonomy of India can be achieved. But these- 
are sadly lacking in the Indians. It cannot be- 
denied that the different classes of fihe present- 
day Hindu society are acting as isolated units 

HINDUISM AND UNTOUCHABI.LITY 

75 

and not ay-operating with onp another.'Their 
individual or class interests have yet.,to be subor¬ 
dinated to the interests of th£ uatiqn. The sub¬ 
merged classes-and the'brthodox'superior classes 
stand as poles astinder. The unnatural senke of 
social inferiorit}/, which the depressed' 1 classes 
are made to fee/ from day to day in their social 
intercourse\ with the conservative caste Hindus, 
serves only to give {rise to discontent and disetf- 
fection in their minfls and prevents the growth 
of unity and a ,healthy spirit of citizenship enge¬ 
ndered by the 'consciousness of their rights and 
duties that such i spirit implied . , - 

The mutual jdistruSt and 5 * jealousy ’the" hi-' 
deous off-spring-pf unto.uchahiljty, have devitali¬ 
sed the ^Indian.body politic and severely'affect¬ 
ed the ^growth of our national solidarity—Those 
who, a/re actuated by an earnest and -sincere 
desi'rq to raise India from her present state- of 
torpor, uninamously admit that in proportion as 
the ‘acerbities due to class cleavage disappear, 
her unifying force tends to become stronger. It 
is beyond doubt that the freer is the scope the 
quicker, will be the progress‘-of her self-govern¬ 
ing institutions. 

It would be an act of sheer ingratitude oD 
our part if we do not thankfully acknowledge 

76 

HINDUISM AND UNTOUCHABILITY 

that mighty unifying force which is silently. but 
surely at work among Indians irrespective of 
their differentiations to awaken them from the 
slumber of centuries. This is the best of all the 

gifts that Western civilisation has conferred oh. 
India. The vast net-work of improved commu¬ 
nications between citizen and citizen andjarovmQ,&| 
and province, the respect for common I^WjU^qh^ 
mon rights and privileges of citizenship,whicK are 
some of the valued giftsTf the Western civilisa- 
ion and culture, have instilled into the daily life 
of the Indian people a spirit of mutual helpful¬ 
ness and co-operation. The Indian National 
Congress and other patriotic organisations have 
done and are still doing all that lies in their po¬ 
wer to place.all Indians on an equal footing. 'But 
their efforts, although conducive to unity that 
India so long sadly lacked, have not proved 
strong enough to place her on a sound footing 
owing to the backwardness £nd deplorable social 
condition of the suppressed classes. We think 
that no extraneous arrangement, however good 
and efficient, can arrest the tendency to separa¬ 
tion, and harmonise the jarring interests ofjhe 
vast population of a country, unless and until 

the underlying-evil is weeded out by n^utual'love 
and toleration. Justice Ranade,- in codrse <?f an 

..HINDUISM.AND 1 UNTOUCI^AXlLt^ 77 

address delivered in Calcutta- in ^896,^ sdid : 
“The State; after all, exists p^ly' to make’ indi- 
widual member composing it nobler, ^pppier, 
richer, and riaore-perfect in 'every attribute', with' 
which we are-endowed and this perfection of our 
being can never /be insured by any outside- arran¬ 
gement, however excellent, unless the indivi¬ 
dual memh.er (/oncerned is himself preparedlih 
his own private social sphere of duties to co-obe 
rate s in his owp well-being.” It is a tri,te saying 
that a race cannot be changed unless it changes 
itself. If we, tljierifo^e, want to -effect a perma¬ 
nent change in tljie angle^of vision of our race,, 
our whole work'must necessarily* consist ifrdeaL; 
ing with the individuals and changing their'inner 
nature.'* -* "V"! v ' '' 

ThcWesfern 1 civilisation has introduced into 
India its characteristic ideals pf equality, .frater¬ 
nity, and self-respect. We are gla'd to see that 
India^ regenerated by the influence'of the West 
and inspired by the forgotten .glory of. her ancient 
culture, is forging ahead and doing many things 
to shape her future religions, social, political 
and economic destinies. Rut it pains us to record 
that this spirit of the religious 'resurgence and 
national regeneration has received a *severe set? 
back from the unnatural social inferiority, arid 

78 

'HINDUISM AND UNTOUCHABILITY 

the unimaginable backwardness of the depressed, 
classes who form the very back-bone and marrow 
of our national organism. So, this sense of social' 
inferiority, this state of illiteracy and poverty 
of- the masses, which have induced them to* 
assume the proverbial Rip-VanrWinkle-attitude 
of absolute indifference even to their individual' 
welfare, must at all costs be eradicated to avert 
the impending’ catastrophe. 

•Educated modern India, moved by a lofty 
sense of self-respect which the twentieth century 
has awakened in her, is loudly claiming equal 
rights and privileges of citizenship with ihe-other 
members. While fully appreciating the heavenly 
inspiration with which our front-ranking" patrio¬ 
tic leaders are enthused for the national advance¬ 
ment of our country, we, at the same time, are- 
constrained to say that they hkve not done ah 
they ought to '.have done for their suppressed 
fellow brethren. Our educated countrymen 
preach against the frantic racial egoism' and 1 
colour prejudice of the white races. They clam¬ 
our against the Indentured Labour Act jind. the- 
Trading and Occupation -of Land Restriction 
Act or Pegging Act of the South African colo¬ 
nies. They complain against the ill-treatment 
meted'cHit to the Indians in Australia, Fiji and 

HINDUISM AND UNTOUCHApiLlTY 

79 

other'colonies. But what' ar^ they\Join|g to re¬ 
move the'humiliating stigma/ of‘untouchability 
put .upon their fellow eountr^nieh pwirrg'to their_ 
social inferiority conditioned by the 'accident of” 
bi^th? This amateurish attitude can.'beXap^ly 
characterised by the well-known sayjrig—‘What' 
is sauce f^or the gander is not sauce for the gob§el 
Swami ViVekananda said : “It is a far\cry, for- 
India to establish t relations of equ'ality. with'for¬ 
eign nation^, until sh'e\ succeeds in restbrmg 
equality within /ier own bounds. \ 

Sriyukta Basant'i Devi observed : “I wonder 
sometimes whether \e desferve that treatment 
that is meted ojbt to us by the'Government and 
Europeans.* -We want .to mend or end this-system 
of -Government? .because 4t makes' tnstiHcfion 
between race and race and we say that justice 
demands that there should not bp any difference 
b.etween the children of; the soiLand the foreig¬ 
ners who come here to make money, and if there 
is to be any difference it should be in favour of 
the Indians. But who are you to say that there 
should be no difference between man and ‘man 
when for centuries,you have looked down and/ 
refused even to treat as human beings, a large 
section of your flesh and blood—the so earned 
depressed classes? You demand justice ^nd"fair 

50 

HINDUISM AND UNTOUCHABILITY 

play for yourself but when you come to deal 
-with the Harijans you deny justice to them. I 
Bay, the question of untouchability and caste is 
not a mere social question but a political one. 
Whatever may be said in favour of the caste 
system, it is admitted by all, including the mosli 
orthodox amongst the Hindus that the system 
in its present form and—development is perni¬ 
cious. * * -I feel that we shall never attain true 
freedom unless the curse of untouchability and 
the caste system, practised as at present in India 
is wholly removed.” 

How can we reconcile our sense of patriotism 
to the attitude of' non.chalance to the persent 
problem of untouchability which demands im¬ 
mediate solution ? The eminent leaders of our 
country, who inaugurated the mighty movement 
of political independence, could hot ignore the 
■disadvantages that have been caused by the spi¬ 
rit of non-co-operation displayed by a section of 
the depressed classes for the sake of safeguard¬ 
ing their special interests. The oppressed classes 
do not believe in the good intentions of the"caste 
Hindus who are demanding equal rights, and 
privileges with the other citizens of fhe British 
Dominions and at the same time heaping abuses 
upon their "kith and kin. Surendra Nath Baner- 

HINDUISM AND UNTpUCHAIHDIT^ 

81' 

jee, the celebrated leader, w^ote in"’ The~Bengale^ 
on the 13th December, 1909 : 

“No one yrho is familiar ^th thefhistory of 
political and sqcial evolutons^in mqderm. tiroes 
will, indeed, (Contend ^^?jnere difference in 
matters of religion,, rac^&£'even language ^s,an 
insurmou\itable obstacle in the path K qf-\ the- 
formation of, a ccpamon nationality or-, oh ppli- 
progress. Bqt where large shcfions of the 
‘people are simp' y treated as untouchables, where 
in addition to cLassydifferences, there is the pride 
of caste to reckon i^th, the sense of_spcial su¬ 
periority and 'sop'al inferiority -depending -upon 
the accident pfjbir.th, the^ difficulty is ifar more 
formidable. \ )__ -- - - - 

“^Vhat is to be our \ answer,,if the-fsubordi.' 
nate Classes themselves iask,' as individuals belo- 
ngiryg to them have b?gun tojask, how .they 
should believe in the'sincerity of men-who while 
loudly claiming political equality with persons- 
belonging to another race, having a different 
religion and different traditions, would not treat 
their own people, men professing the same reli¬ 
gion, belonging to the same race ancKhaving thp 
same traditions as their equals ? 

If our love of equality is genuine, w^-fnust 
prove that it is so, by treating as our equals all 

82 HINDUISM AND UNTOUCHABILITY 

thdse with whom we come daily into.contact and 
with whom we are related by social and econo¬ 
mic ties. If the love of freedom that we profess- 
freedom in the sense of unrestricted self-deter- 
mination-is genuine, we must see that, through 
no fault on our part either of omission or com¬ 
mission, does any section of our. people sqffer 
from any unnatural and unjustifiable restraiht: 
It will really be ridiculous if we continue to'ac- 
cord humiliating treatment to li section of our 
countrymen and at the same time be earnest in 
the struggle for equality and democracy in which 
we must have their co-operation in order to suc¬ 
ceed in our attempt. For this obvious reason, 
our national leaders have put removal of un- 
touchability .in the forefront. of tfie programme 
of the Indian national Congress. Mahatma Gan¬ 
dhi emphatically said- “We may be able to right 
the Khilafat wrong, but we can never reach 
Swaraj with the poison of untouchability corrod.- 
ing the Hindu part of the national body. Swaraj 
is a meaningless term, if- we keep a section of 
India under perpetual subjection, and delibe¬ 
rately deny to them the fruits of national culture. 
We are seeking the aid of Godin this great puri¬ 
fication movement, but we deny to ^ the -most 
deserving among His creatures the right o|~ hu- 

HINDUISM AND UNTOtlCHABltl^ * 83 

• xnanity. Being hUman ourselves ye. raa^ .. not 
s plead before; the Throne for difiveranch from the 
.inhumanity of others.” / ♦ 

It augurs -well 'for. the ldii)dus< that .Netaji 

out 

Bjabhas Chandra. Bose successfully 'capjriee 
fhisdmportant programme of The CoU^es\ by 
Removing untouphability root and brhhclyfrWn 
the Azad I^ind ponj,as well as from the.ciyil po¬ 
pulation under < the /Provisional ,GoverrUn£ht bf 
JFree India organised by him. ■ ^ \ 

Not only the Pridian National Congress, but 
also the All-India/Hindu Mahasabha and nume¬ 
rous patriotic i Hjmdb organisations stand" for 
rights of all those-suffering from, ^social tyranny 
and injustice, a'ncj for the removal of all’barriers. ’ 
Dr. Sliyarna-Prasad -Mookerjee,- while addressing r 
theannual sessipp-ef thhrAlf-India Hindu Maha¬ 
sabha, Observed:- “Our first and foremost social 
programme must be the j complete removal of 
■ untquchability and to ' regard every one as Our. 
equal'- — 

It is a patent fact That the great progress made 
by* the touchable clashes in jnodern literary, 
scientific and industrial .education, imparted by 
schools and colleges, has placed therq in a posi- • 
tion more advantageous than, that of /their sup-/ 

84 

HINDUISM AND UNTOUCHABILITY 

Government of India has been to impart edu¬ 
cation without any distinction of caste or creed. 
But the untouchables could not make the best- 
use of the costly education inasmuch as 

“Chill penury repressed their noble rage, 
And froze the genial current of the soul-” 
From time immemorial the.backward classes; 
have been generally maintaining industrial and' 
agricultural order of the co untry , aqd the upper- 
classes plying their pens as well as applying their 
brains to the philosophies, laws, administration, 
etc. It will be noticed that there was no conflict, 
of interests between these two sections so long 
as they respected each other and considered 
themselves mutually dependent on the ground 
that the production and distribution of commo¬ 
dities are as necessary vital functions of society 
as culture of philosophies, literatures, arts, etc. 
The real conflict of interests arose only when 
the educated members of the backward classes 
began to claim equal opportunities in all spheres 
and encroach upon the exclusive privileges, 
so long enjoyed by the upper classes- Tn 
these days of liberty,-equality and fraternity, it 
is futile to expect that the intelligentsia of the 
backward classes will ever remain contented with 
their primitive and economically unsuited caste 

JHINDUISM AND UNTOUCJHABlLI^Y §5 

professions which are also regarded, derogatory 
from our social stand-point. ' 

The'caste profession of th e'MQchis (gobblers) 
is looked ddwn upon ^as very 1 filthy. -But what- 
right have you to condemn and ridicule.the^n,for 
such a life ? livery _ one is great in his 
sphere. Now-afdays, no gentleman can do. with¬ 
out a pair'of shoes .although he do£s not know 
how to make them ,even‘for his own use; he\must 
have to crave the ^hoe-maker’s favour to i^aye 
them. Now, wou^d lit not be an unpardonable wa- 
nity if a man, haidrig purchased a pair of shoes 
from a shoe-makjsr, condemns him for his pro¬ 
fession as the '.most accursed wretch ? Thus not 
only the cobblers but also people • of almost 
all other suppressed’classes,’ who are supplying 
the. necessary articles of every day use to every 
household, though passing ,a life bordering on 
semi/starvation, are treated with wanton and ruth¬ 
less .cruelty by the so-called touchable classes, 
enjoying all the benefits of education and wealth! 
The fundamental rights of equality have been 
forcibly snatched away from them for the acci¬ 
dent of their birth and for undertaking profess- 
iohs which, though essential for the maintenance 
of a society, are looked down upon from tl>^ 
social point of view. 

86 

HINDUISM AND UNIOUCHABILIT.Y 

Now, for argument’s sake, let us- take-it for 
granted that the untouchables have come from 
the dregs of society. But we emphatically ask— 
who has brought them to that state of miserable 
life? Did not society compel them to undertake 
such professions for its own benefit ? Are they 
not induced by society to supply its wants? Do 
not their works and achievements contribute 
anything essential to our social life? They have 
been denied all their rightfull privileges owing 
to the accident of their birth. The elemgptary 
rights and privileges of equality, wjrjcjfl they-en- > 
joy under what we call the ‘alien, bureaucracy’,., 
have forcibly been tabood by their 'p\yn country¬ 
men, on account of their weak, and backward po¬ 
sition in society ! 

-In -Western countries eminent persons like 
Ramsay Mac Donald, Jefferson, Abraham Lin¬ 
coln; Stalin, Mussolini and others, although 
from lower classes, had the rape opportunity of 
holding highest positions in their respective stales 
and societies. But in India, the doors of all high 
posts were formerly closed against all members of 
the untouchable classes, Now-a-days, the situation 
has changed and the bar, against their occupying 
the highest posts,- has be.en removed with the 
dawn of Independence. But the obstacle in the 

HINDUISM AND UNTOUCHABILITY 

87 

"way of their obtaining an honourable*place in' thei 
Hindu society still exists on accountjpf ignomini¬ 
ous attitude of conservatruaw^p'er ulass'es to¬ 
wards them. Can there b^^^hing more unjusti¬ 
fiable than this ? 

Till now the Ha^y#iJp^were a prey ‘to plumb 
forgetfulness and^^jr^compelled by adv^rs^ cir: 
-cumstances to*pa6>s 'their lives unnoticed ancf^in- 
recorded. 5ut pow-a-tdays, as the riumber pf edu- 

V • ^ 1 * 

•cated men is growirig mbreand more amon^them 
s they are becoming less inclined to accept the* con¬ 
ditions of life, in Which they find themselves in 
the society. 

Is it fair and , just; that the stronger classes 
should be free to wrong the weaker ones and 
make them subshrve their interests? * 

Thfe privileged'classes^ -who * stand -ip -aposi-; 
t ion-of‘social superiority, should clearly be given 
to understand that autocracy has all - the world 
-over been a parent of social revolution. If cannc\t 
be otherwise in India. Tfie persistent autocratic 
couduct of the die-hard orthodox section towards' 
their backward brethren has created many com¬ 
plicated problems in the Hindu society. It has 
driven them to demand separate electorate,and 
reservation of seats in the Goverftmpnt services 
to safeguard their legitimate interests. T’l&^haS' 

88 

HINDUISM AND UNTOUCHABILITY 

ultimately led to the breakdown of the" entire 

Hindu community into'two warring divisions in 

the shape of the caste Hindus and Scheduled 

Castes under the infamous Communal Awards 

It is common knowledge to-day, how this appl£- 

of discord is aggravating disunity among the- 

Hindus and standing in the way of India’s 

national solidarity. The autocratic .treatment of 

the conservative classes has brought into being. 

an extremist section in the Scheduled Castes that • 

V 

is preaching a hymn of hatred against .the caste 
Hindus and pouring—fire—and brimstone upon, 
them ! 'They are saying that the Scheduled Castes- 
must eschew Hindu religion and culture and con¬ 
sider themselves a separate race apart from fhe- 
Hindus in general. With a view to attaining this-- 
•object, they are even demanding a separate Sthan 
(region) for them.selves. It. is a happy augury 
that another large section among the Scheduled 
Classes is vehemently denouncing this dangerous- 
separatist move and anti-nationakclaim. If the 
Hindus take a concerted step timely, they will be 
able to foil the mischievous attempt of the comm¬ 
unally minded section. 

The unredeemed tragedy of our national life 
is that the special possessions and qualities of 
one class do not tend to foster respect* for the 

HINDUISM AND'HNTOUCHABILITY 

others'. “The best ordered state", $aid.Socrates, 
■“is that in which the greatest. number of men 
njse the expressions—‘this is minelor ‘this iis not’ 
mine’ in, the. same,way and, in reference to the 
-.same object .” , He explained his'theory by 'the 
following illustration : “If oftty the. finger bTa- 
man is hurt-then the whole frame draiyn\towards 
the soul as a- yentre and forming a unifed, King- 
•dom under one ruler, feels the hiirf ; anc! sympa¬ 
thises with ij; apd we say that the rpan has a 
-pain in his finger.” 

That which is true of a single^ individual is 
also true of a \Vell-ordered body politic., The 
Scheduled (£asj:es\in Indian polity may be compa¬ 
red to the 1 stomach in the parable of the sto- 
Krtach and members of the .body. If the sto- 

inlach and member^ of the .body. If the sto¬ 
mach rebels, qther members will be killed. The" 
Indians mays not be all equal like 1 tjhe-fingers 
of a-htand, but-they* are' 'all indispensable to 
one/ another. As long 1 , as the body is' healthy, 
af any part is hurt, the 'pain is communicated to 
.all' the parts. This is true also-ef a well ordered 
society constituted by different communities. 

.On account of the social inequality arising 
from the accident of birth, the depressed classes 
of India have not been accustomed .to look be- / 
;yond themselves. They"‘do not Teel .that they 

90 HINDUISM AND UNTOUCHABILITY . 

are members of a circle wider than that of their. 
own classes. The. national development of a*, 
country is decisively against the admission by 
its society of any divided allegiance. But un¬ 
fortunately the constitution of the present-day 
Hindu society is based on the divided allegiance- 
of its classes. The Hindus generally owe their' 
allegiance and show their adherence to their 
classes rather than to their society x>v country as- 
a whole. But, if they really aspire to develop 1 
as a well-organised nation, t hey must follow the- 
noble ideals of all homogeneous races which' 
would ‘encourage them to think themselves not 
as partisans but as citizens primarily in every 
sphere of their lives. It is essential for the esta¬ 
blishment and maintenance of unity of our coun¬ 
try that each class should feel for the other cla¬ 
sses and- contribute’ to the gt>6d''of the whole. 
Dr. Shyama Prasad Mookerjee boldly pointed out- 
certain evils that beset our social and national 
life and for which the Hindus themselves are: 
responsible. It was no exaggeration when he- 
observed : 

“ It is, no use our merely.blaming the British- 
or a section of aggressive Muslim party for 
attacking our rights or obstructing the liberty nf 
our country. We have also to ask ourselves; 

HINDUISM AND UNTOUCgApiLIT# 

6l 

whether we, on our part, have co/flribiit&c! the 
befet that we can for buildirig up, apomplpte; 
national life, consistent with the highest ideals 1 
of^Hinduism.-. Let it not be forgo^en that it is 
our own weakness, our, narrown^,\ our petty 
selfishness which 'strengthen our- enemy;and 
it is/our paramount duty to set our *pwn Kousp i 
in orderd’ 

In'Jalpan, the Samurais were at the fop' of 
the social hierarchy, ^nd the Eta and/ Hiu'-in 
classes were regarded not very differently froria 
the 1 untouchables of India as the most "-horrid, 
and abandoned villains the sun ever shone on. 
But when the Japanese Realised that their social 
inequality was detrimental to national Unity and 
inconsistent with-The best interests-of their 
people, they abolished it. Ip the interests "of 
Japan; the 5 mhurais, were induced’ to surrender'' 
their hereditary privileges exclusively, enjoyed 
by them and the Eta and Hiii-in were emancipa¬ 
ted by ary Imperial Edict of October, 1871. The 
Edict runs as follows: “The designation of Eta 
and Hiu-in is abolished. ( Those who lose them 
.are to be added to the general registers of the 
population, and their social position and pneth- 
ods of gaining a livelihood are. to bp identical 
with the rest of the people. 

92 

HINDUISM AND .UNTOUCHABlLlTY 

“Thus by a stroke of the pen, the boy 
Emperor, being'guided by the clear heads of Ito, ' 
Okubo and other leaders, emancipated the 
Pariahs of Japan and thus they were enrolled 
in the population on terms .of legal equality, 
transformed from squatters into land-lords, 
admitted to the new citizen army, and guara¬ 
nteed access ,to all the avenues of promotion 
formerly closed to them. The Edict of-1871 
was for Japan what the Emancipation proclamat¬ 
ion of Lincoln was for, America^-and —thd^Lkase 
of Czar Alexander - in 1851 liberating (the Serfs, 
was for Russia.” 89 

It is the duty of every civilized nation to tra¬ 
ce the genesis and history of its social phenome¬ 
na and find out the causes, of its backwardness 
and degradation, and apply suitable remedies 
accordingly-Tn' 'India,"’ the "remedy does not lie 
in keeping the subordinate classes under the ar¬ 
bitrary and irresponsible power of the ruling 
classes. It lies in following the noble examples of 
the advanced nations of the East and the West and 
in full and unqualified acceptance of the rights 

39 Presidential address delivered by H.H. The Gaekwar of 
Baroda ai a conference heldjin Bombay on the 20th April, 1918, with 
a,’view to devising ways and means for the eradication of untoucha^ 
bility from the Hindu society. 

HINDUISM AND UNTOUCHABI£MT ' 

<pf Quality of all sections oi'pfcn, with \yliorh we 
arebound with ties of vital interests. 'Mip Saf- 
•ojjfii Naidu, president, thejpcond Ail-India. SocV 
ial Service Conference, IpWucttDelh'i on the 2Sth 
'December, 1918, spolce^p^ follows' in course q£ 
her eloquent address-t^®Was it-not Indfii £|ia\ 
first a'ccepted the impemorial franchise of hu¬ 
manity ? was it not India* that first taught /it td 

manity ? was it not India* that first taught /if tcj| 
the world ? Wa^ if not India that taught the lay 
of equality, the law Of huinanVjespossibility-aD<fi 

the poor ?” i j \ 

; India will not be able to rise to the position 
eqqal to that of other.d^modptic countries of the 
world until and unless the fundamental princfi 
pie ofrequaHty..,of mands:.recQgn'ised*and-brougjrt 
to bear upon, each- one-of her activity. “Man as” 
free to do,” ^aid Herbert Spencer, “what pleases 
him most,. /provided he fringes not the equal 
freedom of/others.” But here ifi India—the so- 
called touchables,. instead of following this pre¬ 
cept of'the Western Philosopher have chosen to 
deny the right of equality to -their fellow- 
beings who constitute a good section of the po¬ 
pulation,, and over whom they have no-right to 
rule except by the right of force. The results 

94 

HINDUISM AND UNTOUCHABILITY 

*■ * 

have been obvious : the recrudescence of caste- 
bigotry, fanatical pride of high descent’ conceit: 
of spiritual, moral and intellectual superiority,- 
display of arbitrary and irresponsible ppwer,- 
conflicts of interests, differences, dissensibiis,. 
chaos, squalor and crypto-fascist mentality fed 
and nursed by the social conditions of the coun¬ 
try are terribly in evidence in all the"sphere of' 
Indian social life. We fervently appeal to all our 
educated countrymen .to wake-up-to-the gravity 
of the pitiable situation of their mother country 
and take suitable measures in .Jftie to abolish 

% 'V 

the humiliating concept of untouehability which 
sits on the breast of the Indian masses like a 
dreadful nightmare, and thus pave the way for' 
national unity. ~ .... - - , 

" It is a great calamity for Independent India 
that most of the depressed classes are sunk in 
the quagmire of poverty and ignorance. It is rea¬ 
lly regrettable that the majority of them are not 
even conscious of the evils which have paralysed 
the energies of their mind and stifled the aspirat¬ 
ions of their soul. Their ‘artless tale of life’ is- 
not heeded by the power-intoxicated classes. 
They never wavered from the path of virtue ‘tcF" 
heap the shrine of luxury and pride’ at the cost 
of their -neighbours. Living remote as the^Kdo- 

i* " \\, *v , i 

HINDUISM AND UNTOUCHABILIT'^/ \ 95 - 

/ | - i y> \ 

. . * _ \ * ■ 
from the toil dnd turmoil of the luxurious, worlcjl 

the^' are free from temptations anc^ snares of 1 ' 
vice. But it seems that those, who / have better 
knowledge of the means of making ^ve.a|th and 
larger organisations .of self-defence, are in a po-\ 
sition 'of superiority ovhr their weaket ffellowmen.^ 
and make^themselves piasters of their less intelli¬ 
gent and less advanced Brethren. Can fit be 4 
denied that the Scheduled Cartes of India hayer^ 
been^subjected to syjstemktic exploitation by the 
money-lending and oth^r profiteering 'classes 

mostly belonging to Ith'e so-called touchable- 

1 . » \ 
sections r 1 ! 

The nation, let us ! remkmber, ’ lives in the 
villages, and it is therejthat Ae have to fight out 
untouchabihty, ignorance, poverty and.;- diseases-, 
if we really want - to. grow-into -a-nation. * They 
religious, social, industrial and ‘economic growth 
of India entirely depends upon .the'uplift of the- 
sunken masses, and her national salvation rests 
on how soon we may improve their condition. 

Swami Vivekananda, addressing the upper 
qlass Hindus, declared : “However much you 
ihay parade your descent from Aryan ancestors- 
and sing the glories of ancient India day and 
night, and however much you may be strutting: 
in the pride of your birth, you, the upper classes- 

/ 

96 

HINDUISM AND UNTOUCHABIDITY- 

of India—do you think you are alive-? 'You are 
but mummies ten thousand years old ! It is 
among those whom your ancestors despised as 
‘walking carrions,” that the little of vitality 
-there is still in India is to be found; and it is you 
who are the real “walking corpses.” In .this 
world of Maya, you are the real illusion, the 
mystery, the real mirage in the .desert, you; the 
upper classes of India ! You represent the past 
tense, with all its varieties of form jumbled into 
one. That one-still seems to see you at the prer' 
sent-time,' is nothing but a nightmare brought 
-on by indigestion. You are the void, the unsub¬ 
stantial non-entities of the future. Denizens of 
•dreamland, why are you loitering any longer,? 
Tleshless and bloodless skeletons of the dead 
body of.Past India'that you are-why do you not 
-quickly reduce yourselves into dust and disap¬ 
pear in the air ? Aye, in' your bony fingers are 
some priceless rings of jewel, treasured up by 
-your ancestors, and within the embrace of your' 
stinking corpses are preserved a good many an¬ 
cient treasure-chests. Up to now you have not 
had the opportunity to hand them over. In these 
days of free education and enlightenment^pass 
them on to your heirs, aye, do it as quickly as 
;you can. You merge yourselves in th^ void and 

HINDUISM AND-UNXOUsqHABI^lTY/ 97 

disappear, and let New Indiaarispjn youf placed 
<4 Let her arise—out of the peasants’ pottage,, 
grasping the plough, out of the huts of the- 
fisherman', the cobbler, and the sweppel^ |Lef hyr 
spring from the grocer V shop, from -beside theT 
oven of the fritter-seller. Let! her ema'nat^ from- 
th§, factory, frppn marts and ffom' ipark^ts.\ LLfc 
her emerge from the groves and .fp'rests, from-. 
hills> andv mountains. These comfnon (.people 
have suffered 'oppressioh for thousands Ufyea'rs— 
suffered it without'murmur, and as a-xesult haWe 
got wonderful fortitude. They have suffered 
eternal misery, ^hi'yh has given them unflinch¬ 
ing vitality. Lining pn a handful of gram they 
can convulse the world ; give .them only half a. 
piece of bread ? Ind the whole world will '-not be- 
big enough"to’'■jcontain their' energy pyheyjctpe 
endowed with 'the inexhaustible vitality, of a 
Raktabija- 40 And besides, .they have got the 1 
wonderful. strength that comes of a pure and 
moral life, which is not jto be found anywhere 
else in the world. Such peacefulness, ~ such 
contentment, such love, such power of silent 
and incessant work, and such manifestation of 

, 40 A powerful demon mentionedHn the Durga Saptashati, every* 
drop of whose blood produced another demon like him. 

"98 HINDUISM AND UNTOUCHABILITY 

lion’s strength in times of action—wheire else 
will you find these! Skeletons of the Past, -th^re, 
before you, are your successors, the India that 
ig to be. Throw those treasure-chests of yours 
and those jewelled rings among them—as soon 
as you can ; and you-—vanish into air, and be 
-seen no more—only keep your ears open., 
sooner will you disappear thanyou will hear\the v* 
inaugural shout of Renaissant India—ringlhgi 
with the voice of a mil lion .thu nders and rever¬ 
berating throughout the universe —“Wah Guru / 
JKi-Fateh”— victory to'the Guru !” 

Now,- a few suggestions as to the modus oper- 
■andi : For the emancipation of the untouchables " 
from untouchability, men and women have to 
be appealed to as much on the jsocio-religious* 

*;an‘d.nationaPsides as on the side of their self-in¬ 
terest. The interest which the leaders feel in 
this matter, is generally exhausted, in their frothy 
eloquence. They think that their duty in con- ' 
nection with the' problem of untouchability is 
amply done by oral proclamation of a declaratory 
•decree in favour of the untouchables. Besides 
preaching, njten are to be enlightened on the 
practical means of solving the problem Hby Te- ' 
moving their bad customs and usages which'are 

detrimental to their progress. Ways a\id'means 

V-'A * 

•HINDUISM And UNTOpCli^feHil^f 99 

■) 

should be devised and adopted to ’t\ach't'hem hy¬ 
giene arid cleanliness effectively. Thus their stam 
-dard of life is to be raised tb the level ;bf that'oL 
the advanced .classes^ Those who arb interested 
in this mattey andHgarH ,to comb' forward, 
.should organise society with‘ v its'bran-' 

-ches all over Indppf$r,‘ihe uplift of the untouch- 
.abfes in all possible \yays. 

Meetihgs .’should be held under the;auspices 
• .of the society andtthe Scheduled Cashes incited. 
They 'should, afteythe performance of a certain 
non-seqtariari religious ceremony, be declared as 
•touchables. Th^ gat^s of our Sanatan _Religion 
with its various- denominations/arid the doors o'f * 
-our shrines- ancj templesmust.be thrown-open 
■'tothem-all,"Vn{l a strict social. equality-be'ob- 
.served-in regatd to every ceremony .~ Hindu 
monkb’, preachers and lecturers ( would-have to 
be urhed op to preach-thfe gospel'of Hindu reli- 
-gioip'which teaches that “the full life-becomes 
fuller in the dedicatipn and service for the uplift 
-of the.lo'w,” 41 The teachings of the prophets and 
seers have to be ,re-interpreted in the light'of 
changed conditions. 

41 The Organisation of Social Service : Indians Ideal and Meth 1 
ods —a paper read at the First All-India Social'Service Confer^ncp'by 
Prof. Radhakamal Mookherjee. 

100 HINDUISM AND UNTOUCHABILITY 

Arrangement must be made to reconvert the 
converted untouchables to Hinduism. Any non- 
Hindu who wants to embrace Hinduism must 
be warmly received and given a suitable place in 
the Hindu society. Thus the Hindus- should try 
to increase their numerical strength by willing: 
conversions if they really do not want to com- , 
mit racial suicide. Swaftii Vivekananda said : 
“Ceremonies of expiation are no doubts suitable 
in the case of willing converts, returning to,their 
Mother-Church, as it were-; but on those^iyho 
were alienated by conquest or on strangei% wish¬ 
ing to join us, no penance should be imposed.” 

History testifies in .unmistakable termsi-that 
when Hinduism was dynamic, it absorbed ^rdes. 
of-Scythians,-Huns; Parthians, Greeks and other 
foreign races in its broad bosom. It is known 
from the Bhilsa inscriptions belonging to the 
second century of the Christian era that a Greek 
king named Heliodorus embraced Vaishnavism 
and erected at Pushkar (Ajmer), in honour of his. 
-chosen deity Vishnu, a Garuda Stambha (pillar) 
which^s still to'be seen there. It is a thousand 
pitie$ that our religion today has turned static in— 
respect\f conversion and lost its power of expan¬ 
sion ^ndrabsorption. This has considerably thinn¬ 
ed doyamhe once huge bulk of Hindu society' 

,1 'x 

HINDUISM -AND■UNTOUCHAMEITY' IGfl 

an,d consequently weakened- ouri faith in a 'way; 
The desideratum of the age is to m^ke Hinduism 
again dynamic and- aggressive sd that It may resiT 
me its onward march with unprecedented speech 
to a future which is destined to be greater jtliaii 
its great past. 

The most important jtfem, of work for thfe s 
upliftment of the'depressed classes is the ppre&iN 
of education/ By spread jof education, w,e mean 
the advancement of knowledge in both the orien¬ 
tal and occidental religibns, arts, sciences, indu¬ 
stries and agriculture; among the depressed mass¬ 
es of India. The problem of education-of the 
Harijans admits of its] being ' considered with' 
reference- toTheir special conditidn. The’ educatf--". 
on which would-bedmptertedlih' schools mpst be ' 
made suitably to their special circumstances'un-^ 
der which their boys and girlst would have to 
work-and eke out an honest ljvelihoodr As. a 
matter of fact, this most important work of mass 
education deeks -to solve inter alia the problenvof 
untouchability of the depressed classes, which 
the educated India now-a-days is so very keen 
about. Our national, social, industrial and econo¬ 
mic backwardness is the outcome of the sheer 
want of education. So, in regard to the practical 
solution of the problems of the. Harijans w.e 

102 HINDUISM AND,UNIX) U.CHABIL 1 TY 

must look forward to the spread of education’ 
among them and enable-them to specialise iri 
agricultural and technical training according,^ 
their needs. We must go to their cottages 
the torch of education to enlighten them first as? 
to the ways and means of leading a decent; clegip 
and honest life and develop in them.a strong-., 
sense of self-respect and duty.- And then we 
may teach them the noble principles of religion 
and philosophy^ far as practicaBleT' 

It should be remembered that our nation^ 
culture has its own peculiar point of view and its 
peculiar method. In this culture, the supreme 
end. is spirituality, and from that standpoint, the 
significance and worth of other •* aspects is’ to b'e 
'esttoated-and-evaluated. - Our-..scriptures declare 
that to impart education to a man is a highly co¬ 
mmendable gift and it is still more so when im¬ 
parted to those who badly need it. Swami Vivek- • 
ananda truly said : '“If the Brahmin has more 
aptitude for learning on the ground of heredity 
than the Pariah, spend ho more money on the 
Brahmin’s education, but spend all for the Pariah. 
Give to the weak, for them all .the gifts are need¬ 
ed. Jf the Brahmin is born clever, he can educate' 
himself without help. -If the other's are not bofn 
clever, let them have all the teachings v and the 

'HINDUISM- ANDiUNTOUCHABJLITy, 1 103 

tieacheTs- they want- 1 - This -is '■ '] ustjce^ sand -reason 
as TupderStand.” 

h Reform works, both permanent and. occasio¬ 
nal, are to be- organised among th 0 , depressed 
•classes according 'to thsir needs-to- raise; them’ 
from their hopeless position that" hold^ tnehi 
•dowm We havd/already saidthat almdsfetallmf 
•them Are more or/ less awfully popr^ FoVerty i 
capping their li^es- j It is weakening / nQt qnly 
the physical - bub alsOj the religious, inoral and\ 
political life of tire wjiolemf India, t ^VdcannOt 
•expect to uplift 1 the depressed 'classes ’and give 
; them proper educltidn and remove ■their' yn- 
, touchability until we have enough to feed t ( hem 
"with. It is only: their abject poverty that ‘has 
"brought fpiced Jjijcnility, ..eringing a habits,]mute 
indifference and'inactivity iiKthem. Itds-fiotr 
•possible For'a locomotive engine to run without 
fuel for its boiler, nor is it\pOSsible. for thfe-hu- 
man body to move without food in its stomach. 
"Who cares for removing untouchability and're¬ 
ceiving’ education with ( a dreadful pinch of hun¬ 
ger in his empty stomach ? Who cares fof unity,, 
co-operation,- religion^mbrality and; cleanliness 
when hunger is gnawing the ^entrails.?'There¬ 
fore, in the face of-the perplexing- situation of 
the depressed -classes,. our» firsthand foremost 

1Q4 

HINDUISM- AND UNTOUGHABILITY 

duty is .to organise a vast net-work- of reform 
activities, both permanent and temporary, 
according to the needs of the area in a purely 
non-sectarian spirit with a view to elevating: 
their economic condition. We should remem¬ 
ber that external development of the depressed 
classes is indispensable for their inner develop¬ 
ment. Pandit Jawaharlal Nehru said : “It may 
be that individual can rise above circumstances- 
and environments, and reach inner—heights^'But ? 
for large groups and nations a certain meashrer 
of external development is essential before'dhe 
inner evolution can take place. A man, who is- 
the victim of economic circumstances, and who- 1 
is hedged-and restricted by struggle to live, can 
very rarely achieve inner consciousness of any 
high degree. A class that is downtrodden and 
exploited can never progress inwardly. A nation 
which is politically and economically subject to- 
another and hedged and circumscribed and 
exploited can never achieve inner growth.” For 
this obvious reason, the All-India Harijan 
Sevak Sangh, Ramakrishna Mission and other 
organisations are carrying on all round constru¬ 
ctive .work among the backward classes in-dh 
fferent States of India. 

As regards reform works for the uplift- of the 

-"HINDUISM' AND DNTOUbHAS^LI?Y 105’ 

depressed 'classes, Swami. Vpekankpcia f said' - 
"“Your duty at present is to go'from one part ofithe- 
cpuntry to Another, frotn ,v i 11 a^et o, ’’village) and, 
make the people' und.ef^tafid that mere'sittiW ab- 
*out idly won’t bring- the- removal' of untoucnabi r 
litydMake th6m,/underStand ‘their real '’condition 
and say, ‘O ye i>rdt4><ji&, all arise 1 A'vvake JHow 
much longer wbuld'/you’^remain asleep ? 'Go,; a&dj 
advise them how to improve'their o\vjh condition,’ 
'and- make then! cdnApreherigl the Sublime truth/; 
•of the-Shastras ? b>| presenting them'in a lucid add 
pcfpular \fray. So l<j>ng\the Brahmins have monop¬ 
olised religion ; bikt sibpe they cannot hold their 
•ground 'againshtli^ 1 strong' tide”of tmrey’gcf "and' 
take steps so that, one and all in ,the land ihay get 
that religion. Jrppfcess upon their mindsdnat .they 
have th^ same right to religion as the’ Brahmins. 
Initiate 1 all, even down to the 'Chandals, irrthese 
fiery JSjlantrds. Also instruct them, in simple 
words; about the necessities of life, and 'in trade, 
commerce^ agriculture; etc. If you cannot do this, 
then.fie upon your education and culture, and fie 
opon your studying the Vedas and Vedanta !” 

We do hope that all kinds ©four institutions— 
■educational, political, social, literary, philanthro¬ 
pic and religious, would interest themselves yi 
this sacred work of uplift on the lines suggested 

•106 HINDUISM AND UNT0UCHABILITY 

above. They should come forward to take up ini 
aright harpest the reform works with a view, to rais¬ 
ing the untouchables to the level of the upper clas¬ 
ses'educationally, culturally and economically. 
This is the only way for the eradication of fche- 
bahe of untouchability from thet Hindu society^ 
We appeal-to the generous public to untie their 
nursestring for financing this noble-work-: Really 
rJarayana Hiiriself,existing in alljbeings, has come¬ 
down to you in the garb of the depressed Harijan. 
for your eternal salvdtion. So^^neyer’be tempted! 
to feel that by undertaking th&J:ask oftheir eman- 
cipatibny'ou are doing good tp them-,Tut- be great- 
ful-.to them-for.the. opportunity..they have,govern 
you of worshipping God in . them for your oygp 
•benefit. Swami Vivekananda, the great spirithalt' 
reformer, has introduced this divine spirit o^ ser¬ 
vice. It is the highest ideal of the,age. Indians, 
•must cherish this sublime 'hlarayana Seva in-, 
.their hearts arid follow it practically for their 
social, spiritual and national salvation, and! 
•only then can be a real brotherhood established! 

among them his ancient land can thus regain its; 
rj^istine glory. 

HINDUISM AND UNTOUCHABILITY 

THIRD CHAPTER 

(■•Mahatma Gandhi andUntouchability ) 

In the|fiame of religion we Hindus have 
made a fetish of outward observances, and 
have degraded religion By making it simply a 
question^of eating, and drinking. Brahmanism 
owes its unrivalled position to its self-abnegat¬ 
ion, its inward purity, its severe austerity, all 
thege illumined by knowledge. 

—Mahatma Gandhi 

X 

Hinduism 

• * ♦ 

and | 

Untouchability 

■is 

^gainst thfe blot of Untouchability whicLds 
not sanctioned in the Hindu Shastras our 

, - ! 

great religious teachers like Shankar-a, Ramatmja, 
Chaitanya, Guru Nanak, Dayanand Saraswati, 
Swami Vivekananda and'a 1 host of others not 
only befriended the Untouchables, but blazed a 
trial that there is nothing like Untouchability 
in Hinduism. Later the Hindu reformers be¬ 
longing to the Brahma Samaj, the Arya Samaj, 
and the Prarthna Samaj and still later pioneers 
like Keshub Chandra Sen, JCudumal Ranga Rao, 
V.R. Shinde etc., took a lead in their educational 
reform. Individual and unorganised efforts th,ere 
have been many in the past to exorcist the 
demon of Untouchability from this land, but 
such attempts never seriously affected the 
thoughts of the masses of the country: The Anti- 
Untouchability sermons of such Hindu Social 

110 

HINDUISM AND UNTOUCHABILITY 

Reformers of the past never reached a wider* 
public than that of their own city or province. - 
Thus the finger of scorn was always pointed out: 
by the foreigners and the followers of other • 
faiths at the Hindu Society which branded' a. 
section of the people within its fold as Untouch¬ 
ables. 

But it was not until Mahatma Gandhi’s Fast: 
over the Communal Award and the. Poona Pact: 
that the movement got an ilPIndia recognition.. 
It was hot new to Gandhiji because he had to-/ 
face this problem even in South Africa. In India 
he threw open his Sabarmati Ashram to Hari- 
jans at the risk of losing the financial support of 
the orthodox Hindus. Even thhn it may not - 
have gained'that prominence and tempo had fit 
not been for the action of the then Premier of ‘ 
England, Mr. Ramsay Mecdonald and the British 
Cabinet which gave the Communal Award. By 
this Award the British Government thought of 
keeping the Harijans outside the Hindu fold 
through a system of separate electorates. This 
was tantamount to dividing the Hindu community 
to the great detriment of its solidarity and 
homogeneity. Mahatma Gandhi who was a de¬ 
legate to the second Round Table Conference 
declared at the last meeting of the Minorities. 

HINDUISM. AND UNTjQUCJU6 &Iff Y ,111 

Committee on the ■ 13th" JNIp^emb^, 19$Tiha.t,he- 
would resist with his li£<e ar^y attempt that mighty 
be made by .the British Cabinet to ..divide -the-' 
•Hindu Community^through separaf^' Electorate- 
The Birtish Qabinet took lightly his wo\ds, then 
gild ultimately decided on saparate electorate fQt 
Harijans. Mahatma Gandhi>> the" man Of 'his. 
word,^?e frjlepd ,and Champion of the linderdog, 
and the greatest Hindu Social/ Reformer of 
modern times, lost no time to lodge'his emphatic, 
protest against, this, decision by writing to the- 
Prime Minister pf England on ,18th August,. 
.1932 that he 'jvould fast unto death from the- 
20th September, 1932-unless the said-decision is-. 

.revised as suggested by him. . j ,. rr 

Gandhiji was at this' time. in..thh-Yarva'da 
Central Prison'and of the moring on 13th Septem¬ 
ber the news pf his decision to ‘Fast unto death’' 
qtme as a bolt from the blue. The whole of India, 
from one end to the. other, was startled- by this- 
news. Its .reverberations were felt ip England’’ 
and -were echoed back from -far-off America. Th,e- 

•decision served -as a signal, for a country wide- 
demand for a revision of .the Premier’s Award. 

112 

HINDUISM AND UNTOUCHABILITY 

.rapid arid 'dramatic. The impasse "created by 
Mahatmaji combined with the unwillingness: of 
the British Government to rescind their Aw&rd 
-except in exchange for an fagreed settlement, 
promptly stimulated the leaders of caste Hindus 
to make a revolutionary change of attitude aftd 
•policy towards the Depressed Classes—a change 
which, until the other day, would have seemed 
-quite beyond the range of practical politics- Ear- • 
nest and strenuous negotiations were started, and 
by the fifth day -of the fast~atr^greernent had 
Been reached'. The leaders of both communities 
finally agreed and presented a unanimous Pact j 
.known as the famous, “Poona or Yarvada Pact”,, 
according to which seats were reserved for the,’*, 
depressed Classes in ’the general electorates in 
both Central and-Provincial legislatures. Under 
this Pact they got more seats than was offered 
under the British Government Award. ■ 

This agreement was unanimously accepted at 
a meeting of- the leaders of both caste Hindus - 
•and Harijans on September 24th at Poona and 
requested the British Government to withdraw 
its Award- creating separate electorates within 
the Hindu Cotnmunity. This was further rectb 
-fied by a conference of caste Hindu leaders from 
all over India held under the chairmanship' of 

HINDUISM AND .UNTOUC^A?if^Y, 

Pt. Marfan Mohan Malaviya onlthd\2hth Sep>t ?rn _ 
ber at ^Bombay, which .passed;, the fb) lowing Re¬ 
solution unanimQUsIy:— 

“This conference resolves , that hed^f^^ 
artiongst Hindus, no ong, shall be, regard^d\^g ai j 
Untouchable, hy reason of his t birth arid 
who Jaave been regarded hitherto will fiav^her 
same rights as ot/her Hindus in regard io th^ 
of public roads/and/bther public ipstitut|p n ^ 

This right shall have' statutory recognjtiorf a^^V 

first opportunity apdj shall be one of;the ea^jf es X 
acts of the Swaraj Parliament, if it shall Hot 
received such recognition before that time. n 

{It has sincje revived, recognition) 

■ Some of the‘; statements 1 by public. me n on 
Gand.hiji’s decision-to-fastrv. * .v.... 

■ By‘Shri G.D. Bifla 

....“The duty of the Depressed Classes is- a ] s0 , 
very clear. Who is a greater! well-wisher of tk em 
than Gandhiji. Those ,in England 
Just like not know, l/ut nobody in India ^ an 
him for a moment challenge .Gandyjj s 
claim to represent the interests ' 
the Depressed Classes. If a referendum wert, ta _ ( 

l. From ‘Epic Fast’ by Pyare Lai. 

114 

HINDUISM AND UNTOUCHABILITY 

ken, I have not the least doubt that 99 percent 
•of the Depressed population will vote in favour 
of Gandhiji. The responsibility of the leaders of 
the Depressed Classes is thus no less onerous 
than that of others; and I hope they will come 
out solidly and rally round Gandhiji”. 

By Babu Ramananda Chatterjee 

“From the day that Mahatma Gandhi took ' 
up the cause of Indian freedom and national so¬ 
lidarity, including tKe solidarit^of the 
Right in Hindus, he has been ready to literally-,, 
his Resolve lay down his life for it at a mpment’s ^ 
notice or even without notice. For 
people who have not staked their life andjtll for^ 
this cause, as he has done, it must be very diffi¬ 
cult to pronounce any .'opinion, on the very-s’e- 
rious resolve which he has taken. He has never 
indulged in bluff. And he has a will of steel. So 
unless the British Government does" what he 

wants, his resolve will lead to his death. I shrink 
from the thought of what such self immolation 
may lead to. But of one thing I am sure, such 
martyrdom will bring about that Hindu and pos¬ 
sibly that Indian, solidarity in the way of which 
the so-called Award stands. So, whateverYhe Bri¬ 
tish Government may do, Mahatma Gandhi’s 

\ 

V 

A 

HINDUISM AND UNiptteHAB'fhfitY ll5 

- . 1 m V ,C5^ i 

-•objectvwill be gained-.- I humblyHfhink that the, 

'Mahatma is right in- his resolve.-” \ j 

By Rabindranath Tagore 

From the beginning of hufnari ljistory the're - ’' 
lhas continued the cleavage between classes some _ 
s, poured by circumstances pcp\oitlng 

- Humanity the weakness of others and building 
Multilatpd ;the stronghold pf their own-pride of 

superiority upon the humiliation of 
•.a large section pf! the community. Though £his 

- practice has been^prevalent for long yet we'fnust 

assert that It is 

against the - true spirit of rrian. 

No civilized spciety can thrive upon victims 
whose humanity has'been permanently mutilated __ 
-whose minds h ( ave been compelled ’to dwell in 
the" dark. Tho^e whom we'keep down jjnevitably, 
-drag'us down arid obstruct our movement in the 
patl/of progress.” < , ' ‘ 

[Pt. Jawaharlal Nehru (Dehra Dun Jail) 
“The first news of your decision to fast caus¬ 
ed me mental agdny and confusion,- but ulti¬ 
mately optimism triumphed and I regained peace 
•of mi nd. No sacrifice is top great for the sup¬ 
pressed and the down-tod'den classes. ' ' 

Freedom must be judged by the freedom 

116 HINDUISM AND UNTOUCHABILITY ,, 

won for the lowest. But I feel there is danger op 
other issues obscuring the only goal 
Magician I am unable to judge from a reli- 
gious point of view. There is danger 
of your methods being exploited by others. But 
how can I presume to advise thee Magician ? 

Pt. Madan Mohan Malayiya 

“It will be a national disaster and an inde¬ 
lible shame if leaders of Depressed Classes and 
of the rest of the Hindu community' 
Indelible fail, even in the face of the loss 
shame which stares us, to arrive at an agree¬ 
ment on this question. Despite our , 
failure in the past, I honestly believe that there- 
is enough of patriotism and devotion to religion 
among us to help us to arrive at ah agreement, 
which will satisfy the reasonable desire of the lea¬ 
ders of the Depressed Classes to take their proper 
share in the public life of India without putting 
them in a separate pen and segregating them - 
from the rest of the community, in which they 
are born and to which they adhere in spite of the- 
disadvantages to which they have been exposed.” 

By M.C. Rajah, Harijan leader of Madras 

“The Premier’s award of separate electorates: 
is solely to secure a minimum number of spokes- 

HINDUISM AND UNTOUCH^B'lLIT> 117 

• . | \ 

'men for the Depressed Classes^ Mal^ati^na 
Gandhi’s decision ^is for oVer-re- 
Do not cut presentation of /the Depressed- 
us Adrift Classes. In joint electorate Aiy pacfr 
with Dr. ^Moonje of the/ Hindu 
Mahasabha gives /my community'reservationof, 
seatsAon a population basis., I would,/th^refo^e 
ask the Government t 9 take this assurance irora 
me that our' joest interests, requite that'we should 
not be dissected frpm the Hindu Community 
but that we should have out due-representation 1 
■in legislatures pn the basis of reservation. Th'e 
crisis that faces us tdday is very grave. There 
hangs in the balance 'the life of the greatest 
Indian'pfour time,jand there - hangs in'the balance" 

■ the future of millions of the down-troddejn-peo- , 
pie of this country! ” 

Undpr such unanimous, agreement and-pres- 
sure froin the people of all castes and creeds the 
JBritish/Government had to withdraw its Award 
and accept the Poona Tact on the 26th Sep¬ 
tember and requested Gandhiji to terminate-the 
Fast.- 

The Poona Pact acted as a great leaven fo/r 
social reforms among the Hindus; it was a clarion 
call for the purification of Hinduism; it echoed 
throughout the length and breadth of the land?' 

118 'HINDUISM AND UNTGUCHABIKITY 

it engendered in the hearts .of millions of caste 
Hindus a sincere desire to atone for the sin of 
Untouchability. To give practical proof of their 
earnestness to remove the blot of Untouchabi- 
■lity. from the fair face of Hindustan, the thinking, 
progressive and patriotic. Hindus from all over 
India took advantageof the great force generated 
by MahatmajiVFast ancFthrew open temples, 
wells, Dharamshalas, schools etc. all over the * 
country. During the fortnight of agony between " 
13th to 26th September and succeeding weeks 
the country saw unprecedented enthusiasm to do 
away with Untouchabilityi On 14th September ^ 
alfAUahabad - temples^ were^tFrowfropem' ‘On 
*" 16th September Kalighat temple of Calcutta was 
thrown open to Harijans. The Depressed Classes 
of Ahmedabad decided to fast on September, 
20th along with Gandhiji. A ballot taken at seven- 
important temples feBombay resulted in 24,797 
persbns voting in d^Our of temple entry for the 
Harijans while onM 448 voted against. In Mad- 
tas-the ancibntr.ghrd most orthodox of the temple, 
the KandasWamiN temple, was opened to Hafi- 
jans. At Rerona dae-doors of the Paryatkt'emple 
were flung c^peji spontaneously to Harijans and 
Sflri Rajahoj^vho tw,o-and-a-half .years before 
fed led a satyagraha,* but without t success, Tor 

IJINDUISM ANp U^TOl/CHABII^X^ 119 

the admission -of. ffarijan§ intoy that fett\ple, wa& 
the first to eptprV Wlfet social reformer^ eohld 
nQt'do for decades .was thus achieved in-a twinkl- 
ipsfjof the eye by Gandfiiji’s^fast. Temple after 
temple was-thrown ppen^after the, Pooiia Pact 

\ ' I ~ v 

was signed- All temples at Patna, ^y^npur, 
Beawar, Rajbari, Cjluttack and othejr places\wefe 
thrpwn open) Ipt^r-caste^dinnerS were he\jd at 
various places including, Bombay, Delhi, Patna,, 
ISfagpur etc. 

Untouchabili|ty abolition'activity reaahed its 
high water-mark on \he "1st November, 1932 
...whenDr. Subbafayan’s-fymple-.'Entrp.-.r^solption * 
was carried jhytjhe .Madras- UegislattV'e^Gpuncil 
without a single dissentient voice,-whiehrshowed 
that me heart‘of the citadel of, orthodoxy in 
India/had at last collapsed. _~ 

Gn the 30th September at- a mammoth-public 
meeting of Hindu leaders from all' QVer Undia 
held at Bombay under the Presidentship of Pt. 
fMadan Mohan Mafaviya, * it‘was re§olved to set 
up an All India organisation* withit&head-jguar- 
ters at Delhi and branches in different provincial 
centres,- for the purpose of carrying on prop^ 
ganda against the .observance of Up touch ability 
with.Shri G.D. Birla as President and late Shri 
..A.V. Thakka-r as' General Sgpre'tary.,- Thus came 

120 

HINDUISM’ANb U&TOUCHABILITY 

into being the All India Harijan Sevak' Sanghi 
with the following aims and objects :— 

“The object of the Sangh shall be the-' 
eradication, by truthful ' and non-violent 
means, of untouchability in Hindu society - 
with all its incidental evils and disabilities 
suffered by the so called untouchables, here¬ 
inafter described as Harijaiisfuf all walks of 
life and to secure for them ^absolute equality 
of status with the rest of the Jfindus.” 

The Whirl-Wiriff Tour 

> * ’ 

,, Mahatma Gandhi did ndiT^sf‘-satisfied with 1 
these _ resu lts o r the fojrmtiorupf an All India , 
organisation-to look after the ^^felfare of Hari- 
jans. He wanted something concrete done for 
the Harijans-and wanted to rouse the conscience 
of the caste Hindus against the sin of Untouch- 
-ability. He s*aid„:-r- 

<- Unl<?s^|fnd until we befriend the Harijan, 
unless arid'uh'til we treat him as our own 
brother. We- ‘cannot treat humanity as one 
brotherhood? The whole movement foFtKe. 
removal of -Untouchability is a movement 
for the establishment of universal brother- 
hoodyand nothing-less.” 

Thus as soon as he was-released from jail he 

HINDUISM AND- UNTOUgi^ASIU^ 121 

undertook an All India Harijan yjquf,^ ^wKigIlj 
commenced on the 7th^of November, 1933 ;and 
•came to an end in Banares at llhe end of July, 
1934^'This tour''yds a’ success in m’any^^ys.y!t A 
was first of all a Remarkable personal v/ictoVyfhr 
Mahatmaji-v. In fowns "or villages from; the-South 
•to the North and from thg East to the WeSj;- in 
India Was witnessed the oyer-flpwind' ^lfectipnV 
■of the pe'ople- The tour wad,also a’success look¬ 
ing to the.colledtiojis\in money. and ^materials'. 
A sum of Rs. 8j,21,17fe(—15—11* was collected in 
about 8 months. Oxpluding. expenses-for* Harijan- 
^work. But the quality of the collections is what 
'hhatte'rhdrKO¥eTh^i' the ^uSjfffityi fof 
.paid in their thousands, the poor contributed in 
their hundreds. Thirdly, tfiere was-a strong de¬ 
sire, ana an infinite feeling^ that untouchability’ 
must .go. In Gandhiji the desire became £ warm 
ing and the feeling a burning passion. Thrpugh 
ibis instrumentality a great thought was- crystf 
allised into a big fact and a 'mere theory yraa 
•translated into a s’trong organisation." This 
•whirlwind tour lifted the Spheduled Castes 
•■or the Harijan problem from 'the-status of a 
social refom to the pedestal of the greatest- 
socio-religious upheaval of modern Hinduisrryand 

122 HINDUISM AND UNTOUCHABILITY 

perhaps the biggest humanitarian movement of 
modern times. 

Some Incidents 

It is certain that Untouchability will go, but 
it is not equally certain that Hinduism will re¬ 
main regenerated. On the one handrthe Ha'ri- 
jans as a community have come out of the slough, 
of despond and have become ar-tieulate. Pallia¬ 
tives like educational aid or giant of civic rights 
or even better facilities of employment will no 
more satisfy them. For they know that they may 
get all that and yet remain untouchables in Hindu 
homes and unapproachables in Hindu temples. 
And it is here that the crucial test comes. ,Ho.w_. 
far has there been a real change of heart among 
the caste Hindus ? The long tour of Mahatma 
Gandhi throws some light on this difficult quest¬ 
ion. The tour reminds us of some “regretable”' 
incidents. Black flag demonstration near Otta- 
pallayam, the little scuffle at the Guruvayur 
meeting* the boisterous demonstration at Buxar, 
the midnight attack on the car at Jassidhi and J 
the mysterious dropping of a bomb at Poorra- 
But no great movement which has vehemently - 
attacked ancient customs, religious beliefs!, vest¬ 
ed interests, and strong sentiments met witli. 

HINDUISM AND UNTOUCHABII^TY 123 

Such little, almost insignificant opposition, Con¬ 
sidering that the movement was ponducted by a 
frail,man, touring in all parts th^ coWitry 
without protection. 

These incidents/ did not prevent MahatmA 
Gandhi from carrying on the work of removal 
of UntcSlichability/ throughout the Country. 
Among^e eighteen constructive activities that 
he directed, he gave priority to Harijan worjs 
and Hindu Muslitn U^ity. He was the ihovin^, 
force and guiding spirit ,of the Harijan Sevak 
$angh until his exit frorh this world on the 30th 
January, 1948. His attitude was one of ‘Praya-, 
shchit’ of the Hindy Society for their omissions 
-and-commissions, against the-Harijans. -- - j - - 

The Sangh yndekihe guidance of Mahatmaji'" 
began its activities on a modest scale but .with 
the collections made by Mahatm& Gandhi during 
his All-Ipdia Harijan tour in 1933-34^the Harij j - 
jan welfare work was spread Out in all provinces. 
Propaganda among caste-Hindus to convince 
-them that Untouchability was un-Hindu, that it 
is a blot on Hinduism- and the greatest social , 
evil which was eating into the vitals of the Hindu 
Society and therefore required to be. removed 
was the mission on which the Sangh concentrat-’ 
ed its attention. The task of bringing about /i 

124 HINDUISM AND UNTOUCHABILITY 

change of heart in the minds of the Hindus,, 
steeped in age-long tradition and orthodoxy, was . 
not an easy matter. Yet the Harijan Sevak Sangh 
carried on its work with persistence and steadi¬ 
ness that the old prejudice- against the removal 
of Untouchability has almost become a thing of 
the past. In this task the Sangh -had to face the 
orthodox opposition and -contend against the 
fury of the orthodox elements'' resulting in 
assault and other kinds of insult and injury to 
the caste-Hindu Harijan’ Sevaks and tKe^TIlff^r, 
jans themselves. This was particularly* so in'? 
the rural and outlying parts of the country ; where 
the. landed classes and the general masses of‘the 
.people, are^sujperstitious ^andiignoranVwbere-'the- 
caste and feudal loyalties are strong and where the 
economic interests of the privileged classes are 
intimately and inextricably connected with Hari- 
jans. To this must be added the unhelpful atti¬ 
tude in some cases adopted by the various pro - 
vincial Governments .in those, days of pre-inde¬ 
pendence. Under such circumstances, the work 
of the Sangh was naturally slow. 

Mahatma Gandhi, speaking at the annual 
meeting of the Harijan Sevak Sangh held at Seva.-'" 
gram on the '14th August, 1945, discussed'' the, 
ideal and method of the Sangh-how far the Sangh 

HINDUISM ANE) UNTOUCHABILITY ’25', 

had succeeded in securing the / abolition ! of 
Untouchabilityi. His feejing was that It, w^ a 
slow process but if works's of the! right type 
and equipment w€te available their pro^fess 8 
would be sure and,rapid. Future^rbgjre^ac-\ 

f' f 7 1 p 1 

•cording to him, would depend^wery mych on 
securing workers of th^t y kind who Would fie 
Teady to stake eVerything fojthe cause. He era^ 
phasised that in giying a new status to tpeJfiarj- ^ 
japs, it was necessary tq work for .the removal of 
their untouchability land ‘to secure for them 
social and civic rights 1 , as .also to expedite their 
•progress in_ edu’catjoy., .Mahatmeji.. felt. ,that the 
■growth of self-consciqusness among the Harijans- 
tvopldijrdtie'jcourspT^f time'-bring 'about trajjsH 
-formation- in--the odtr look“6f"tfie nomfiaryan 
Hindus. Hi advised the workers to carry on In¬ 
tensive constructive work all ov’er India agreeably 
to the feelings and wishes of the Harijans,. with, 
a view to‘ bringing them to the level of the ad-~ 
vanced blasses in all rekpebts. Replying; jto a 
question'put to him bye prominent Harijan ( lea- 
■der of Madras, Mahatmaji observed.: "Let,us not 
-forget that untouchability is a most^ difficult thing 
to remove and our task is a heavy 1 one. But I 
have no doubt that God will remove untoucha¬ 
bility or remove Hinduism.” 

126 HINDUISM AND UNTOUCHABILITY 

The next important aspect of the work of the 
Harijan Sevak Sangh relates to the removal of 
the civic and social disabilities of the Harijans- 
Their right to use public roads, tanks and wells,- 
as well as the right of temple entry had to- 
be secured by legislation. Some of the Indian 
States were sympathetic and so, this question of 
Temple Entry for Harijans waeRrst-started in the 
States. The Sangh decided that the best place 
where this vexed question could be satisfactorily 
solved was Travancore, as conditions there were 
very favourable for propaganda in favour of 
temple entry. The Harijan Sevak'Sangh Delhi,, 
therefore organised a vigorous campaign advo¬ 
cating temple entry in Travancore and Shri 
G.D. Birla, the President, Shrimati Rameshwari 
Nehru, the Vice-President and Shri A.V. Thak- 
kar, the General Secretary under took a tour in 
Travancore in connection with the Temple 
Entry campaign. 

The Maharaja of Travancore under the able 
and wise guidance of Sir C.P. Ramaswamy Iyer, 
the then Dewan of Travancore, rose to the 
occasion and promulgated the Temple Entry 
Proclamation 43 on the 12th November, 1936. Jt 

43 . The Epic of Travancore by Mahadev Desai. 

HINDUISM AND UNTOUCHABILITY 127E 

f 

stated thus :— • 

‘'Profoundly convinced of thp trpth add' 
validity of our religion'' believing that it is- 
based on divine guidance and oh an, all-com-\ 
prehending toleration, knowing that in hts- 
practice it v has, - throughout the centuries 
adapted itself to’ the ’ needs of the changing 
times, solicitous, that hone of Our Hindu sub- v 
jects should by reason of birth, caste or 
community, be defied the consolation and 
solace of the Hindu Faith. We have decided 
and hereby declare, ordain and command- 
that subject to such rule’b and conditions as- 
may be laid down and 'imposed byUstfor 
preserving- their ! proper atmosphere -and 
maintaining their rituals, and observances 
there sfhould henceforth be 'no restriction 
-placed/on any Hindu by birth or religion on 
entering or worshipping at temples 'con¬ 
trolled by Us and Our Government.” 
The'Travancore Temple Entry Proclamation- 
had its repercussion all over the country. Opi¬ 
nion every where was veering round in its favour. 
Travancore was followed by other Indian'States¬ 
like Gwalior, Indore, Baroda etc. Many temples 
in India were also thrown open to Harijans. 

The opening of Shri Minakshi Temple,Madura' 

128 HINDUISM AND UNTOUCHABILITY 

to Harijans was the next important land-mark in 
Temple Entry movement. The efforts of Shri 
•G.D, Birla, ShrimatiRameshwari Nehru and Shri 
A.V. Thakkar and the efforts of Shri A. Vaidya- 
nath Iyer, president of the Tamil Nad Harijan 
'Sevak Sangh, was responsible for this Madura 
Miracle. It is not necessary ~to~ervumerate here 
the circumstances under which several temples, 
big and small, were thrown open to Harijans 
after the Travancore and Madura Miracles. 
“Suffice to say that the prejudice against ..temple 
entry was completely removed by the' Travan¬ 
core, Madura Miracles. Thereafter, it was an 
easy matter for the various legislatures in the 
country to pass measures enforcing temple entry 
for Harijans. The Madras Legislature under 
Rajaji’s leadership being the first in the field. 

Now in its 28th year the Sangh has spread 
out its activities all over the country. It is spend¬ 
ing annually about 30 lakhs on all its activities 
through its 25 State branches and 240 District 
organisations with a band of over 300 full-time 
paid workers stationed all over the country. It is 
maintaining over 120 mixed Harijan Hostels, 00 
cooperative societies, 145 schools, ‘balwadis’ and 
Social Centres with three Industrial Training 
Centres. 

HINDUISM AND UNTOUCH ABILITY 120 

I 

This curse of Untouchability ha^ cojne dbwn 
to us from time immemorial'and has taken de^p- 
root and therefore jt will still take some time r 
specially as the people are ignorant and' or’tho- 
doxical- Old and rigid custorrfs stand as obstacle 
in the way. However,to-day all the important 
temples in India have been thrown open to Hari- 
jans. Now no school in the country can refuse 
to admit a Harijan simply on the plea of his be¬ 
ing a Harijan. 

HINDUISM AND' UNTOUCHABILITY 

Eourth Chapter - 

(After Independence)'' 

“Untouchability” is abolished and its pra¬ 
ctice in any form is forbidden. The enforce¬ 
ment of any disability arising out of “Uh- 
touchability” shall be an offence- punishable 
in accordance with law. 

—Article 17 of the Constitution^. 

It is nobody’s intention, least of all 
•Gandiji’s to deprive the Depressed Classes of 
their dud and more than their due represen¬ 
tation. Let that be secured in a generous and 
ungrudging spirit without cutting up Hindu 
Society and treating the Depressed Classes 

even for a temporary period 
jfro^i it. 

as separate 

—Dr. Rajendra Prasad 

Hinduism 

and 

Unloucliability 

y^/lth {the dawn of Freedom the Congress 
Government gave its first recognition to 
the bchbdtjled Castes'-'by'appointing-Dr.'. 1 Ambed-,; 
kar, adHarijan -leader and a Doctor'of Laws to 

draft the Constitution for the Freehand Indepen¬ 
dent , India. Thus, a Harijan became the first ‘ 
law-maker for the bigger and Free India and for 
the orthodox Hindus who had strictly followed 
Manu the orthodox lawgiver of the Hindus from 
time immemorial, which shows the generous out¬ 
look of the niajority of the Hindus who have be¬ 
gun to' realise their’ mistake^. and decide/1 to 
change with the time. 

Again the first Act of the Parliament of Free 
India was to give statutory, recbopedtio'n-' to the 
resolution passed, under. Pt Mad^h Mohan Mala- 
-viya.on 'the 25th 'September,. 1932' at Bombay 

133 

134 HINDUISM AND UNTOUCHABJLITY 

giving equal rights to Harijans as to other 
Hindus. 

Under Fundamental Rights, Articles'15,16 
and 17, it is laid dow n that:— 

15. (Pf The State shall not discriminate against 

any citizen on grounds only of religion, 
race, caste, sex, place of birth or any of 
them. 

2) No citizen shall, on grounds only' of reli- 
. gion, race, caste, sex, place -of birth or 
any of them, be subjeetto any disability! 
liability, restriction or condition with 
regard to— 

(a) access to shops, public ^restau¬ 
rants, hotels and places of public 
entertainment; or 

(b) the use of' wells, tanks, bathing 
ghats, roads and places of public 
resort maintained wholly or partly 
out of State Fund^ or .dedicated to 
the use of the general public. 

16. N {1) There shall be equality of opportunity 

for all citizens in matters relating to 
employment or appointment to any office 
under the stfite. 

17. 

HIN£)U ISM ^(ND' UNTOUCHABlt ITCY 435 

(2) No pitizen shall, dngfoundspnlyof reii- 
gio^vrace, caste, sex, tlefeceftt, place of 
biyth, residence or any of them, be' ineli¬ 
gible fbr, or discriminated ^gamst\in res¬ 
pect of, any employmenkqr offipqVmder 
the State. . ’ \ 

“yniouVhability” is abolished' and its 
practice in any form is forbidden. The 
’'enforcement-of anyrdisability-arising out 
of. '‘jUntouchability” shall hean offence 

, ** 1 <-l | • « * • V \? V I h . ftiMprbanw-H' ■^P r • fwni w rtF-ff -» 

punjshablejn accordance wijtndaw:^ 

, Under Article 330 the ScheduledCastes were 
gWen reservation of seats in the Lok- Sabha and 
'-the Vidhan Sadhas on the basis of revised popu¬ 
lation figures. Under Article 335"a certain 
■ percentage of appointments in the Central and, 
, 'State Government services are reserved for Hari- 
jans consistently with the maintenance of effir 
-ciency of Administration. Under Article 338A 
special officer under the President to look after 
the interest of the Scheduled Castes w^s also, 
appointed. 

The Scheduled Caste Order 1036 of the 
Government of India which included v only the 
JHafijans of British India was superseded by a 
longer and fullhr list known as tire Constitution^ 

136 

HINDUISM AND UNTOUCHABILITY 

(Scheduled Castes) Order 1960. This Order was-, 
later superseded by the Scheduled Castes and 
Scheduled Tribes Lists (Modification) Order 
1956 of the President which included more Castes- 
and Tribes that suffered from some disabilities- 
or other. 

Another land-mark in the removal of untouch- 
ability came with the passing of the Untoucha- 
bility (Offences) Act 1955, by the Indian Parlia¬ 
ment which came into force from 1st June, 1955- 
It made it a cognisable offence to prevent any 
one from the exercise of his civic rights or from 
entering into and worshiping in any temple or 
drawing water from public wells • and tanks etc- 
Likewise restaurant and hotel-keepers and dhobis- 
and barbers who refused to serve Harijans simply 
on the plea of their being Harijans come within the 
purview of the Act. Under the Untouchability 
(Offences) Act persons professing the Budhist,. 
Sikh or Jain religion ^or persons professing the 
Hindu religion in any of its forms or develop¬ 
ments including Virashaivas, Lingayats, Adivasis* 
followers of Brahma, Prarthana, Arya Samaj and 
Swaminarayan Sampradaya are considered as- 
Hindus. Although the civic rights of the Sche¬ 
duled Castes are protected by law, in practice it 

HINDUISM AND UNTpUCHABILITY 

137 

"is difficult to eradicate Untouchabijit^ only'bjT 
force of la\v. Gandhiji $aid, “Untouchability 
“will not be removed even by fofce.'of'the 1 law. 
It can only/ be removed whpn the majority of 
Hindus realise that it is a crime against Gpd 
■and man and ap ashamed of it. In pthfer fy/ords, 
it is a process ,of conversion i.e.' 'purification of 
the Hindu hprt. The aid of law has to be in¬ 
voked when' it\ hinders or interferes with the 
progress of the reform.” 

The sure way to eradicate Untouchability is 
;to educate public opinion against' this evil. For 
this"purpose it is generally accepted Jhat.ptibli- 
•city and propaganda are essential and it can be 
more effectively carried'out through non-official 
.-^gencies than through Government bodies. Be¬ 
cause, Governments cannot afford -to lead in 
matters of reform. By their very nature Govern¬ 
ments are but interpreters and executors of the\ 
•expressed will of the people whom they govern, 
:and even a most autocratic Government will find 
itself unable to impose a reform which its pepple 
cannot assimilate. It is for this reason thar the 
•Government of India and the State Governments 
have been encouraging-non-official organisations 
•of All India character. 

138 HINDUISM^ AND UNTOUCH ABILITY 

On the expenditure on welfare work for 
the Backward Classes, the Home Minister Pt~ 
Govind Ballabh Pant, “Revealed that during the- 
First-Five Year Plan Rs. .39 crorgs had. been* 
provided for the welfare of scheduled castes and’ 
scheduled tribes but he was not sure whether 
that amount was fully utilised or not. For t^e- 
second Five Year Plan period Rs. 91 crores has: 
- been earmarked and if they are able to put it-to* 
proper use that amount for the benefit of these- 
. Backward Classes before the expiry of the plart 
period, perhaps, more funds could be obtained.”' 

Educational 

Considerable progress has been made by the- 
Union, and State Governments and,.other nonr 
official organisations in the matter of educational! 
advancement of the scheduled castes. The total 
expenditure incurred by all for the purpose dur¬ 
ing the first Plan period runs to over 12 crores. 
For the Second Five Year Plan there is a provi¬ 
sion of 32-37 crores fordhe educational progress-, 
of, the Backward Classes. In addition the State 
Governments are spending, huge -sum^ of money 
otitv of their,,,own funds outside the plan, on 
schemes for the promotion of education. During- 
the last ten'years that i? ?rom 1949-50 to 1958-59* 

HI^DtnSM'A^D UtfiaUCHABILIT$ 139 

according to the*. VJomrrtissionet'-s \KepOrt jor\ 
.1958-59 Scheduled caste Students '‘were > awarded. 
.1,20;014 scholarships to'the tune qfiRs. 4,85)13',337 
by the Government 6f India .al'ohe f^r Post-* 
Matrix studies in- India. Jn soflie off , the states 
education, is free upto Matriculafiofi* standard 
while in lother states the' -scheduled cashes are 
exempted frorxi, the payment of tution 'fee. fn 
many states; hostels are run for the benefit;of 
scheduled caste \students by the 1 states and- non* 
ofiiicial agencies .and Harijah students are award¬ 
ed hostel expenses by the Governments. 

, A large 1 percentage of scheduled castes are 
la'nd-less labourers ahd’the'Governments, Centre 
and States are trying their best to settle them 

on 

(a) cultivable waste and other land with the 
State 

(b) lapd, released thrpugh the imposition of 
ceilings on landfholding ^nd 

(c) Bhoodan and Gramdan lands. 

Nine states have allptted 23,90 f 522 abres of 
land to scheduled ,castes; Most of the States antf 
Union Territories have \ adopted, legislative and 
executive measures for, providing agricultural 

r4o 

HINDUISM AND UNTOUCHABILITY 

land to scheduled -castes. In Bihar- the allotments- 
are made by Revenue officials without consulting 
Panchayats except in certain areas. Five acres 
of agricultural land per family are allotted and' 
no granting fee is charged-for this.. The (govern¬ 
ment of Bombaydiave issued orders to give pre¬ 
ference to-iDembers-oLtLe^ Backward classes in 
respect of grant of waste land for cultivation and 
has accordingly directed that in all districts, a 
systematic attempt should be made to give- out 
for cultivation to the Backward Classes and 
lessees all waste lands including those leased 
under '‘grow more food campaign” and forest' 
lands which can more advantageously be used" 
for cultivation. The land-less labourers are 

further given financial aid to purchase agricul¬ 
tural equipments to develop the land allotted to 
them. Bhoodan and Gramdan Ygna started by 
Acharya Vinoba Bhave have now assumed a 
nation-wide importance and have become one of 
the 1 foremost sources from which relief for the 

landless Scheduled Castes and 'Scheduled Tribes 
who form a very large proportion of the land¬ 
less are naturally benefitting , from the drive. 
x The distribution requires certain special laws to 
facilitate the work and towards-this.end some of 
the states like U.P., Bihar, Orissa and Madhya 

HINDUISM. A'ND^NTpUqHABt*,I3''K 141 

"Pradesh have passed measures' ( and the settlfe-^ 
ment of landless, agricultural, wofk'ers is-' taking 
place. 

-To.irqprove, -the eaWfifiic cphdikbn^.of thd 
Scheduler Castes Cottage Incfus,tries are being ea- 
-Gouraged'in jdpabareas. This pfogramm'e has two 
aspects hamely raising' the level of traditional 
village |ndu^tries which had/ languished or arc 
•carried on -b|? theSe v communities in an / archaic- 
:and crtide pinner b^Better organisation, supply 
•of raw Materials and marketing etc. ,and by pro¬ 
gressive introduction df pew cdttagp industries as 

means "of livelihood for landless and under-emp¬ 
loyed agriculturistsv Several all India OrgapisT v 
-tions-liHe -the-Khadr. -and- Vi Wage Industries 
Poard, Hand-Loom Board,' Coir Board etc. 

have been set up to give work tdthe Harijans 
and to develop important Cottage Industries. Up, 
-to date more than ^31 crores have jbeen incurred 

under this he'ad. 

The housing condition of the schediileddastes 
was unsatisfkctory frdm tne beginning bot^i ih 
rural and urban are^s and v^hich has to a dr eat 
•extent affected their health.' The Government 
has taken steps for improving their housing con- 
» ditinn. The Central GoverrimefiM has issued' 
■directive's to the State Governments to allot house' 

142 

HINDUISM AND UNTOUCHABILITV 

sites, acquire land where needed and to give- 
financial aid for house-building etc. On ah aver¬ 
age Rs. 1000/- is estimated to cost for a house in- 
rural areas and the Government pays Rs. 750/— 
in instalments and the balance of Rs. 250/- has 
to be found by the Harijans in the form of man¬ 
ual labour. 

Reservation in Services 

Under this head a certain percentage ,of 
appointments have been reserved for the sched¬ 
uled castes and during the last 10 years every 
effort was made to fill up the quota. -While the: 
response is good in the lower grades, the upper- 
grades and to the executive posts the representa¬ 
tion has not come up to the. mark. -This may"bfe- 
due to the fact that suitable candidate' are npt - 
forthcoming. Being poor, as soon as they com¬ 
plete the high school or the Matric. the Harijans, 
are absorved in the .lower grades. It is hoped’ 
that with the facilities accorded and relaxation 
of age limit the number will gradually go up. 

As regards representation in the Parliament 
and Legislatures it is on population basis. Not 
only they have got full quota but a number of 
scheduled castes and scheduled tribes have been 
. elected from the general seats also which shows. 

HINDUISM^ ANJD UNTqUCHABILITY 143^' 

* V 

that the Government, the,Congress £rid thujdin- 
du community as a whole, sincerely desire to brings 
forward their long neglected brethren. To-day* at' 
the Centre therais one Cabinet Minister' andi 
two Deputy Ministers, while in the States there-* 
is one Chief Minister, thirteen Ministers', 10 
Deputy Ministers and two Parliamentary Secre¬ 
taries from the Scheduled Castes. 

Scavengers arid Sweepers 

Ways and} means to improve the* working: 
condition bf \the scavengers and sweepers is- 
being undertaken. Though the wages of the 
scavengers and sweepers are-much 1 better than, 
other Harijans but they are mostly’ in debt and 
live in "sqqalor and their' wqrkingf’cphditiQn is 
worse still. 1 A number of enquiry committees were 
Appointed from time ■ tp time b'ut the reports of 
^these, committees have not been given effect to¬ 
by the Municipalities which' in most cases are 
elected bodies. These Municipalities are in the 
grip of party-politics and financial difficulties ane}. 
thus the working conditions of the sweepers are- 
neglected and the same old method of cleaning: 
still goes on. The methods of removing and c^fry: 
ing night-soil are most unhygienic. Repeated re- 
questes from the Centre and State Governments. 

•HJ^RUISM, ANQ UNTOUGHABIHXy 

to the Municipalities for improving these methods 
have fallen on deaf ears.' The Hindus consider 
<prtain animals and certain profession's as unclean 
and those who keep them or carry on sud^Lwork 
are treated as unclean. Scavenging and swiping 
are the Plain' causes for treating the Bhangi as 
an untouchable. ,'Such inhuman.conditions have 
got to be improyed'at the earliest opportunity. 
The Governme nt is tr ying Jts best to do away 
witHdhese difty methods. Municipalitij^’afid 
local bodies arb''being given generous grants -for 
providing their municipal employees with im¬ 
proved and modern implements like wheel-barr¬ 
ows, brooms hand-carts etc-. It is hoped that 
with the installation of flush latrines, septic- 
taiiks'and~ Pthef scaven^eFTfee ’latrines in placS 
of the old bucket-type latrines their condtiion 
will improve. 

■Conclusion . _ 

Untouchability, is not sanctioned by the 
Hindu Shastras and history does not tell us when 
and jiow it originated. Suffice to say that it is 
,pld and through passage of time^hese ancient 
customs and social-conduct of the Hindus passed 
•on taus.first by word of, mopth ^arifl later they 
amdeewent - changes and modifications at the 

I \ 1( \ , 

/ 'Hl-N DU I Slvf UnTdUC HAB ILt T Y / 145* . 

. ;• , \ . ' . 

fends of Writers and Jaw-rhaXerS to suit the; in y 

terests-of their own cbmmumty._ ( The people of* 1 ' 
India though fi^lloVing k cotnmorr. yeligibmwere '• 
divided-into small independent kingdoms 'ymhm 
different/languages which nktlirally\ helped- "to- 
make these changes 1 go unchallangeyl or unno-' 
ticed. The Britishers weiSe?--the first to bring--the 
whble <f>f In&ia-aW Burma f underta single Go¬ 
vernment jbiit they thought /it-wyise: f^oy-tb make 

■i „ 1- \ 

to Gandhjiji and the Indian National Congress- 
to tackle.fhis amnion of untpuchability on an all 
India fia^is nearly thirty years-agoy but GandKiji 
~dttf"ffffi'’'iH^Fong bnougH.'after- i jndepen denceto- 
s,ee untouchability rodted out completely. How¬ 
ever, credit must .be giveri to his lieutenants like- 
Dr. Rajendra Prasad, Pt. -Jaw a har Lai Nehru,' 
Pt. Govind Ballabh Pant etc:, for carrying on the 
unfinished work of Gandhiji unabated. Within 
ten years of 1 Ihdependence vast prbgress has- 
been made to eradicate this evil. Let us hope 

that within the next decade that is fiy 1970 when 
* * \ 

the constitutional safeguards^ for ‘Scheduled 
Castes will come to an end, it will be a,thing of 
the past. v 

146 'HINDUISM AND-UNXOUGHABIJLITY 

We cannot deny the fact that the Ifindu 
social institutions as it exists to-day reveals con¬ 
tradictions, crudities and disharmonies, but we 
.have to accept at the same time that beneath the 
.surface there are strong currents of principles 
working silently towards harmony. Such contra- 
-dictions are true of the social institutions 'o,f all 
mankind, yet the truth is beyond denial that 
most social institution s hav e served mankind 
-towards his betterment. The outer disharmony 
•or oddity, if there is any, belongs to the condi¬ 
tions or contexts of time and place. 

Om Shanti: Shanti: Shanti: 

OPINION^ 

of Distinguished Persons 

Prof. Priya Ranjan Seri, M. 1 

Secretary, the;; Harijan Sevak Sangh, Bengal:'- 

^ v 

I havd\read Swami Sundarananda’,s, book on 
Untouchability—a, m ajor stumbling block ipihe 
way of Indian! independence,land a social evil pf 
the first magnitude,. This- evil has to be brought 
home to the |Caite \ Hindus because it is they 
■eventually who can ajter the-shape of things and 
sremove the infamy by 'declaring,' as'the Emperor 
■of Japan did in the.seventies, that untouchability, 
shall cease at'-once. How can we movethWhearts 
■of casfe~Hindu& ? Merely to call the untoucha¬ 
bles b,^ the name ‘Harijah’ is surely no remedy, 
•but t® take .them as God’s! men, as men who are 
■divine in the service theyhender to their fellow- 
men, and to learn to (respect them, is. Throwing 
-the temples' open to them,* declaring them to 
have the right of* walking through roads .apd 
using public wells, helping., them to education 
and rendering pecuniary assistance on .emergent. 

147 

148 

OPINIONS 

occasions—all these may ease the situation but 1 
the caste Hindus must also be roused to thejjt 
consciousness of fh'eir own responsibility for t£'is-- 
great/evil. Swami Sundarananda's" book, conceive, 
ed in tlje right spirit, is a timejy publication ' 
a$d I welcome it as such. Ic contains abundant' 

» " " i 

references to many great souls who- have expres¬ 
sed'themselves emphaticalj^-dn this matter, and 
it is'prompted by a sincerity of purpose and real 
feeling. May-hfhelp the great cause which all 
-nationalists in India fcave in view, the eradication, 
of the evil, and the restoration of a healthy atti¬ 
tude towards society and social obligations. 
19.8.45 

Prof. Suniti Kumar Chatterji, M.A. (Gals), - 
D. Lit. (Load.). F.R.A.S.B. 

■ Swami Sundarananda’s ‘Hinduism and Un- 
touchability’ is a-timely book, and a challenging - 
book which, all critics of Hinduism both within, 
and without the* fold of 5 the Hindu faith should 
read and pounder over-'-and'try to put into prac¬ 
tice the, suggestions for removing this canker of 
present-day Hindu society. For the writeFlsThpt' 
content to be a mere chronicler of expressed 
views of the thought-leaders of Hindudom from* 

OPINIONS 

14 £ 

time immemorial to the pbesent-day on > this 
social sin—he has been'followih^/therU\also i'(and 
particularly ,'th'e^great Swami ^iyekananda of, 
thrice blessed memory) by treating\ffye problem- 
as a -living problem -of present-day Ipdian Vlife, 
which is makirig very largely out welHnt^ntibh-, 
ed endeavours futile in all directions of econo¬ 
mic, political,-cultural and Spiritual' rehabilitaV. 
tion. Our yo\ing /men/led away' too' mu'ch b^dhe 
glamour of the fPreigp and the exotic-have fqst\ 
or are losing lining ^ouch 1 with thd deathless 
teachings and injunctions of' Hinduism seeking 
td^S|ulate the rplatior\s betweefi man and man— 
between one manifestation of the Supreme Spirit 
'and- another, -and are straying afar from remedies 
for .the .evils. of_tOjday.whick.ha.ve been .time, and 
often proclaimed biy their Qwnnthinkers ano-spn - 
ritual lexers. All' this is ’ largely the result of 
a lack of an idealistic view of'life and a swerve 
to tb£i materialistic attitud^ which_is now .so 
blataritly blared forth by ihany an “ism’’ from 
Europe. We forget we .must take the best that 
Europe has to offer—particularly the Gr£ek spi¬ 
rit of freedom .of the* intellect which .is the basis; 
of European culture-r-and adapt that best to our 
needs' and not blindly hitch -our hation^l prog¬ 
ress to the policy of this or that country in the 

150 

ppaj^o^s 

W&st, or for the matter of j that, bn the East-. 
Swami Viv.ek 4 na 0 .da in a ,way yvas the .greatest 
spokesman, Of--the (dumb* inarticulate and exploit¬ 
ed. ioas^es of India,-and; at -is, time’ we listened 
Ofi<:e.ag^ip:to this .great soul, whose -voice was a 
vpiOe/.crying in the wilderness over 40 years -ago, 
but whose message lives for ever, and \yhiph 
can still revive and energise a whole people, even 
the whole of humanity. - 
20. 8. 45. 

Swami Sharvananda of the Ramakrishna 
Math, Belur (Howarh) :■— 

.TTead"'with great interest' Swami Sundar- 

panda’s.bookrrr^'iiindusim 'an'd-'Untouchability” : . 
Its publication has been most opportune at a 
time when India is trying to rejuvenate herself 
by discarding all her weaknesses and redressing 
all the sore-spots in her body-politic-. All the 
great Indian leaders of thought are unanimous in 
pointing, oht that untouchability has -been a 
great'cufse in’Hindu social life,-the like of .which 
is nOt found dnthny human, society anywhere and 
ithas been-’one ofthe chief -sources -of-disinte- 
gtatipfrand* break-down' of the national- li/ehf 
India'. 

(GBIKHONS 

im 

i ' 

\n !' Probably the-genesis .of ithis -segregation-'of a 
jdip& Ipf people ja$h‘juhtbuchable^’ J .‘in ancient 
.thtoeiay.iAfthe? pn-Aryan' habits ‘/of xthe-.aborh" 
.-gines.asmegards fbod<; marriage.- hnd ^someJcrfhVt 
.social:manners afid'cpstoms.--Some j;pf-'thes^ynX 1 
[clean, habits -are, still y presistirig'in them, ..foriihst ' 
;tance, the. Pariahs-and-Puliarfe of- the--South,--. >thb 
D.hers-of Bombay 'presidbri^y -and some- vjjn^ 
touchables” .of Rajputalia are! still accustqfncd>td \ 
■eat,the;.carckss ofidbadfcpwsabdffaibes-abii^^ven 
(ofihorses-and Hogs.I 'Further,. owine;.'to their ext-- 
retnen'dirjty (habit ^ndj. upclean profession, ihe. 
igy^f between the'$o-tailed- caste, Hindus amjl 
■these M-caILed.f .‘untouchables’bbecame*wide and 

• J " "n . I - ‘ > 

unbridgeable. 

“HSwever’id'fTs "ai-twlel 1 -knowndfact 
•that the greaTT- merit 6 f the Indo-Arykn^ ’w^s -m 
their most unobtrusive and peaceful method of 
Aryanisation of the aborigines of the land. Per- 
hapsi'n’ arie'ient- time the pfofcess ytas slow -gvii,- . 
dfehtly'due to^he-lack' 6 f-'-means of<ea"sy 06 m- 
munieatioji- bhtil/hen distant .parts -of Itidia.' %ut 
there is no doubt that thp process \tias muck 
hampered and the wheel of progress -y-as‘bitched 
by arrogarice and. the selfish motive of exploit¬ 
ing them for mean works by the upper-classes. 

152 

■OPINIONS 

Whatever might have been the causes of un- 
touchability in ancient India, it must be said that 
they do not and need not exist to-day, in this 
20th century when man' can be made conscious 
of. the. dignity of the human soul, and his unclean 
habits can be rectified by proper scientific “ and! 
moral education. It was done in ancien't India, 
•although individually. Now it has'to be en masse ^ 
the whole- -class that—has—been" depressed aria 
• ostracized by the appellation, “untouchables/’ 
has to be raised and made clean by giving th§r$ 
the proper education and the Aryan culture. 

India as a nation cannot rise politically, and 
■ even culturally,"•urrless' , we’TOot out all disinteg¬ 
rating,, influences that , are cankering- her*„soul T 
and revitalize her by spreading the same Aryan 
culture through all the limbs of her national 
life. 

Swami Sundarananda has given-ample evid¬ 
ences from the Hindu scriptures to shoyr that 
the segregation of a class of men as untouch¬ 
ables is not only unpolitic but upholy also. 

10. 10. 45. 

f»RESS REVIEWS 

Hindusthan Standard 

•‘The book/is a /timely publication ( f6r, the 
Tnglish-speakrhg people of India .'who aref'ik- 
te^e^ted ip the {higher evolution of Indian Society 
^Icuig national lines as chalked out by Swami 
Vivekananda. (Aijioqgst other'things of' Hindu 
.’Socio-religious' interest it also deals at length 
with-the- -questipn olvtheVdepressed!"-classes., 
which form the weakest point in the armour of 
Hinduism. Should the depressed..classes-of- the 
Hindu" Society still continue to be treated as 
‘Outcastes” by the caste-Hindus much jn the 
/ay as Christians or the Mohammedans are 

same 

outside the Socio-religiou^ constitution of - Hin¬ 
duism? The author has discussed the question 
from the view point of the historical evolutioh 
•of the. Indian Society which is,’bom of the depths 
of ages. The treatment of the question which/ is 
now pressed to the front for iimmediate solution-, 
appears to have been more secular, utilitarian 7 

153 

154 

PRESS REVIEWS 

and political than religious or spiritual, properly 
so-called Hinduism represents a type of religion 
which stands by itself-alone and apart, refusing- 
to be judged and ►understood*by the accepted, 
tests and standards of other creeds and religions,. 
The question has b.een lightly -discussed-frorii 
the view point of temporal,gain to the-Society of 
, the Hincjps,. ,And fhis has-beenatenessitated by 
the fact that while the. Christian propagandists- 
have been thinking of ; bring-ing the:-so-called 
depressed classes .under the elevating infiuenqes-- 
of their Church, the Mohamedans have also been 
thinking of strengthening, their ..community by 
the conversion of the many millions of ,the.sor m 
called -“out- castes',* to their- faith arid, there hy 
acquire a new power in poljtips. Is it not a,fact 
that most of the Mohammedans in India were 
Hindus formerly; but conversion weaned therp 
away from the comfnon -race, ‘ Indeed, front t-her 
politicalpoint of view, thp .conversion of set many 
milljons of the population of'India to the Isla'- 
micjf^ith^ would surely open up, such new, f pro-y 
spects- which have become most imperatiy§-tcr 
w 1 oild,powef ;; :in- l tho yprld of Ipdlaj politics, as- 
n^plcje^i, by-; the rgppnt Jabpu^s ,qf the Qabjqet 
Mission. Swami Vivekananda with the prophet- 
tic vision saw through things and in consequence: 

PRESS' Ki>VifiWS 

prescribed in advance remedies tbthe new -fp^lad'' 
dies-that would ‘over tike India, if tjid depressed" 
classes'of the cdunfoy - wer§’lfeft 'to, themselves \o^ 
drift-away'in the crosscurrents' bn Indian Ipipli'V 
tics"- Hd;--'therefore/ most- emphatically’ ^$naed-* 
the' 'bigoted H ind^s against committing racial 
sucide by’ keeping 1 any Tdhger the ► b'dpre'ssecf 
classes of- thd'Hlndu 'society outside the pale bf 
th^HMdu qommuhity:'! And’ihdeed'that -iSiwhyr 
hb said : “Ceremopie^ of'ekpiafi’otf ate-'ho doubts 
suitable in the casds ojf willing converts, tetlim- 
irig to the Mother-bhurch\ as it we're. But- oA\ 
those who • Were' ’cdibna’trd''by~~eohquests. as ih ■ 
jKashrBir-ahdi.Nepat.or -jon. strangers- wishing to. 
join us, rio_penanc<£--shouki be'impdsedr”" I-i!r' : 
theSe days yf forced’conversion of thedHinduah- 
to the faith of Islam by barbarous hordes'in : 
Bengal -unfler the present day! Muslem regime" 
and speciality in view of-tKe recent pronounce¬ 
ment 'by 1 the great 1 ieaidfer B/ ; the Muslim League 
we strongly recommend'the book 1 to"ohr readers'/ 
j(l-7th Ndv. ; 1946, Daily- Edition, 1 "published !fro‘m ; 
Calcutta-.) 

I* » 

I 

/irnnta Bazar Pqtrika . —. 

In view" of what- has happened in recent/" 
months apd is still happening, reinoval of pn- 

156 

PRESS' REVIEWS 

touchability has. perhaps become one of the 
greastest problems for Hindus. This is their 
own internal or domestic problem, no matter 
whether or how they are going to settle matters 
with the Muslim Leaguers. “If Hinduism is to 
sufvive it must be casteless,” said^Mahatma 
Gandhi in one of his post-Prayer speeches. No 
words were more true judging from the present 
posture of Indian affairs. Fifty years or more ago 
Swami Vivekananda realised.that this untoucha- 
bility was a terrible black spot on Hindu Society 
•and not Hindu religion, for Hindu religious 
scriptures nowhere condoned or supported Jdjis 
vile and irrational practice; on the contrary, 
they.condemned it in no uncertain terms- The 
Swamiji also realised and gave emphatic expres¬ 
sion to his conviction that the future of Hinduism 
was bleak and dark unless and until untoucha- 
bility in every shape and form was totally made 
a thing of the past. We are, therefore, very glad 
to cpme across a little book entitled “Hinduism 
and Untouchability” written by Swami Sundara- 
nanda, a monk of Ramkrishna order, who has 
made a life-long study of this vitaLproblem. In 
this treatise the author has dealt mainly with 
the sdciahreligious and national aspects orthe 

■'I 

'i V" 

PRESS -REVIEWS 1 

.jr^r 

\ 

problem and ( has Conclusively established by > 
irrefutable arguments and citations^ from Hindu, 
scriptures-that untpuchabiRty was never pant- 
tionpd by religion ^ and that its continuance yfil^ 
virtually mean the d^athknell of Hinduisn^ ; , \\^e > N 
earnestly commendfthis ^ook to all who desir£ a j 
•thorough reco^stnjctioiji of\ Hindu Society qn^ ^ 
irational basis. Wej, have so long merejy^toyed:^ 
•with the problem. If Hindus w^nt to be strong, 
■united and prosperous! they must without a 
moment’s delay seriously study the problem 
and take^practical steps to\removC this vicioust 
hing from .Hindu ' Society'-.root' "and ‘ branch- 
'(16th_Feb % 1947, .Dai y Edition, published.*frckrx=.j. 
Calcutta). ' _ v< j_, _i-i 

Modern Review : \ ■ , -- 

The aptnor, who is a member of the^Rama- 
hrishna Mission, is of opinion thdt Hinduism does^_ 
not really contain any sanction for the vicious, 
system of untouchability; the degradation to 
-wihich the caste system has 'dragged down ‘the 
Hindu Society is the result of priestly selfishness 
rand a spirit of conservatism not keeping in with 
-the best traditions of Hinduism as they were 
handed ;down the centuries by an finbroken 
series of Philosophers and saints, f^e holds that 

P RES S REV IE WS 

a." radical social'reform must precede- the political 
Emancipation c¥-‘ Indiaf and >fn the matter' -or . 
establishing a democratic society, we -have much 
to learn from the West. J * ■>* 

i * * f 

The author' pleads with' passion, and at the- 
same tiine'eome's forward \yith a practical scheme 
of social uplift and educationaT reform among' 
the untouchables of to-day; he feels rightly that' 
mere pious sentiment" will be of nd use. ( Feb- 

1947,' monthly; published from Calcutta.) 

- - * 
Vedanta Keshan : v. 

*» » • -»•«-«« * * * 1 , T ♦ * * t- 

This book was originally published in 192 2- 
“IFrs^nbwTptrblished, With fhe'necess”afy addifiorfs^ 
and alterations which the lapse of almost quar-v- 
ter of a century has demanded and is also pro¬ 
vided with a brief forward by Dr. Syama Prasad' 
Mukherji, President, All-India Hindu Maha- 
sabha. The' problem of untouchabili'ty ' in Hin¬ 
duism is dishussed from the social point of view 
in the‘first fchapter and from the national point 
of view in the second, and’throughout'th^re is- 
an eloquentvplea for the removal of •untoucbdbf- 
lity, Thi'ch T a>M‘ot oh Hiridiiisnv 'and\ Hihdrr 
Soci'ety. Swami Vivekananda, whose opinions bn 
the-subject 'are profufely quoted in''this' book r 
dfiq<^ declared that “no religion bn'earth prda- 

EftESS-R'fiVfE^S' 

ches ! the; dignity of humanity -,ih ”sPcK--a'Bol'diiff 
strain as Hinduism and" 1 no' ; religion 'Onyearth- 
'treads''Upon't-hte' necks 6f tike poor- ; anj$ ilojp ?h* 
sodh k fashion ys-Hiuduism”. This diiselepapey 
between theory and' practice is’ the rCfehlt \ dr 
superstition, bigotry and the misupdersta'pdihg 
^ of scriptures, Gastks were originally-TunCtiqnVb 
and not hereditary ^nd, tpetd were nq impossible- 
barriers in andienjt tipies between one caste and ■ 
’ another as now.! V)ur scriptures record how 
Valmiki, Vyasa and Visya.-Mitra rose .to Brahmin^ 

' hood from the, lower castes. In-fact; the'great: 

, obj ecfcof-the-lfm itasystenk.Qf’ Varfraisht^ai^S'' 
to raise,the Kshatriya, : the, Vaisya, the Sudra and. 
even thp primitive tribes tQ thq rank of'Brahnhn- 
hood from their respective position by, slow,. 

. steady/ and gradual prpcess. 'Accordingly^ 
Swami Vivekananda in, his ( grpat. speech opgfhe 
Mission of Vedanta deliVerejd, at Kumbakanam 
declared., 

“There is law said: on? each- one ofyoudn'this- 
landby ybur ancestors,* whether you aie, At-yanS 
ormon^Atyans. Rishis. or; -Brahmas Of the^hefyd 
lowest outcastes. The, comrnarJ^lj&is the ^an&icf 
you all, that you' must- make ^progress--r tidfndVif 
stopping anddhat; from-* the highest haafo/ fo:fhe 

160 

PRESS REVIEWS 

lowest Parish,,every one in this country .has to. 
-try and become the ideal Brahmin. Such is our 
ideal of castes as meant for raising all humanity 
slowly and gently towards the realisation of that 
•great ideal of the spiritual man, wh'o is non- 
-resisting, calm, steady, worshipful, pure and 
■meditative”. 

There are again innumerable instances in 
^historical times of men of the lowest castes and 
■of untouchable classes who have risen to the ' 
rank of saint-hood by the purity of their lives 
and the intensity of their devotiori to God. And 
-the'images of these images .of these saints—Ti- 
ruppana Alwar, Nanda, Chokhamela and'Nom'- 
podwan—are worshipped in temples and their 
Birthday ceremonies observed by orthodox Brah¬ 
min priests even to this day. The great leaders 
•of Hindu Society from time immemorial have 
•condemned the evijj v custom of untouchability,. 
Hamananda, Nanak^ Tukaram, Chaitanya and 
in recent times, Rani;Mohan Roy, Swami Daya- 
nanda, Swami Vivekananda, Ranade, Tilak, 
Madan Mohan Mal^viya and above all, Mahat¬ 
ma Sandhi have pleaded for the absorption of 
the Depressed •classes into Hindu Society. It was 
only the other day-that Mahatma Gandhi said. 

•PRESS REVIEWS 

I6L 

‘‘Let us. Rot forget that untpuchabilit^'-is aT 
most difficult thing-to reipoVe and our tagkNis A 
difficult one. Bdt I have n<* dpubf that Gefech - 
wifi remove untouCha’bility or -romove/H-i’ndur 
ism’,. ' (Nov. 194p, ■ Monthyf published' from.,- 
Madras). 

Prabhuddha Bharat a 

t 

* At a stirring period of Indian History when:' 
na*tion^djsba is struggling to find expression,, 
’when the problem of untouchability has been 
very.much before Us, the\publication of Swamk 
Sundarananda’s boo4 the author discusses .the- 
problem of untoubhlability ■ 'from *th'g’ socip-rpli-- 
gious stand point lay-assembling passages frpni. 
the teachings and writings of \ these saints' and 
savants who have solved the prpblem in the'light: 
Vedantio pfrinciple which affirms the "presence 
of the eternal reality in all beings-high.and low-=- 
irrespective of all denominations. „ The Swami 
rightly concludes in the second section of the- 
book thot the achievement of national unity-the- 
only means of independence and sbcialhrege- 
neration -is, possible by breaking isolated groups- 
and artificial barriers which are responsible for 
the diseases of the Indian body politics. Iiy 
short the author uncovers the ra^s. and shells- 

162 

which, hide the essentials of Hinduism,' and 
pLeades-for,,real unity-t ; he unity'that.is essential 
for the dutpre peace,, prosperity .and glory iof 
India : '(July ,1947# Monthly published- from 
Mayavath Ds.t-s A 3 mgr a', U.P.’) ! 

