tt 
80% 


NDIRA GANDHI 
PEECHES IN PARLIAMENT 


INDIRA GANDHI 
SPEECHES IN PARLIAMENT 


INDIRA GANDHI 
SPEECHES IN PARLIAMENT 


Editor 


SURENDRA MISHRA 
Secretary-General, Lok Sabha 


Published for 
SABHA SECRETARIAT 


By 


JAINCO ART INDIA 
1/21, Sarva Priya Vihar 
New Delhi — 110016 (India) 


ee 
ot 
a 
fea 
pee 
5 
ASS : 
Fite a 
न फिर, 
Aa हे 
oe 
१25६ 
pS 
4 
: 
Pat 
~ 
% 
बडा 
1 
aa) 
v 


eR 
ates 
4 


oy 
nes! 


ox 
‘ 
an 
At 
Aes 


First Published 1996 
©1996, Lok Sabha Secretariat, New Delhi 
Cover photograph by courtesy of Dr. Swraj Paul 


Published under Rule 382 of the Rules of Procedure and 
Conduct of Business in Lok Sabha (Eighth Edition) 


Published for Lok Sabha Secretariat by: 
Sudhir Kumar Jain 

Jainco Art India 

1/21, Sarva Priya Vihar 

New Delhi — 110016 (India) 


अध्यक्ष लोक सभा 
SPEAKER LOK SABHA 


FOREWORD 


A multi-faceted personality, Smt. Indira Gandhi symbolized the spirit of India and 
steered the nation at a time when it was beset with many short-term and long-term crises 
of nation-state building. She was an epitome of unwavering courage, confidence, 
determination and dedication which laid the solid foundations of the stability, growth and 
development of Indian society and polity. 


Nurtured in the background of the freedom movement, she discovered India and had 
glimpses of the world civilization under the erudite scholarship of her father, Pt. Jawaharlal 
Nehru, a man of enormous intellect and exceptional wisdom. She learnt the values of 
Truth and Ahimsa from Mahatma Gandhi and from Gurudev Rabindranath Tagore, she 
learnt the aesthetics of life and nature. Yet, -her thought structure developed an originality 
for itself, which helped her to become an institution in herself in the post independence 
history of India. 


With her philosophical and ideological orientation, Smt. Gandhi gave a strong welfare 
bias to the Indian economic framework which came to be reflected in her idea of 
‘arthik swaraj’ for the people of India. For infrastructural development, she nghtly 
underlined the importance of research and development in the twin fields of science and 
technology. Her contributions in Parliament covered an entire range of subjects of national 
and international importance. Many landmark measures for securing social justice were 
initiated and implemented. She abolished the privy purses; and nationalised the banks. 
The MRTP Act was enacted to regulate the activities of big companies; and above all, 
she put emphasis on land reforms. It was because of her firm commitment to social 
justice that the Directive Principles of State Policy were sought to be given precedence 
over the Fundamental Rights. She held the Constitution not as a static document, but as 
an important instrument of sucial change and a symbol of people’s faith. 


Smt. Gandhi served both the Houses of Parliament and made excellent contributions 
to parliamentary deliberations. “Parliament” she once said in the Lok Sabha, “‘‘s a repository 
of the hopes and wishes of the people”. She revealed her genuine democratic spirit while 
participating in parliamentary debates, which occasionally invited strong opposition and 
interventions. But the spirit of decency and decorum always prevailed even in most 
acrimonious of debates. I am glad that the Lok Sabha Secretariat has thoughtfully 
recapitulated in the present Volume, the contribution of Indiraji to the enrichment of 
parliamentary debates and nation-building. 


I am sure this book which documents the myriad aspects of Smt. Indira Gandhi’s 
personality will prove to be of great interest to parliamentarians, research scholars and 
others interested in the working of Indian Parliament and polity. 


New Delhi 
January, 1996 Shivraj V. Patil 


(il) 


PREFACE 


Born and brought up in the background of the freedom movement, Bharat Ratna 
Smt. Indira Gandhi played a very important role in our national life. In the 
pre-independence period, she actively participated in the freedom struggle and suffered 
imprisonment. After independence, she helped in shaping the course of national politics 
for about two decades and emerged as an indomitable symbol of India’s self-respect 
and national identity. As the Prime Minister of India for over sixteen years, she 
exuded breadth of vision, sureness of touch in deciding what was right for India in 
the long run, and a flawless sense of timing in implementing the decisions. Her firm 
determination and tireless efforts to ameliorate the conditions of the weaker sections, 
eradicate poverty and remove socio-economic inequalities endeared her to the masses. 
She boldly grappled with the challenges of her times and was an unyielding champion, 
who overcame all adversities with an iron will. She was held in high esteem for her 
courageous actions based on sound convictions. She built a strong, vibrant and vigorous 
India on the foundations laid by Shri Jawaharlal Nehru and led the nation on the path 
of socialism, secularism, democracy and development. 


In the international arena, she put India on a pedestal where its voice was listened 
to with affection in the developing world and with respect in the more powerful 
states. As an influential world leader, she contributed immensely towards maintaining 
and strengthening international peace and security and promoting prosperity of mankind. 


In her death India lost a charismatic leader and statesman. She left behind a 
fragrant memory of sacrifice and service which would continue to enliven the path 
of the present and future generations. 


The present work is a humble tribute to Smt. Indira Gandhi for her outstanding 
services to our parliamentary polity. It seeks to focus on her invaluable contributions 
to the debates in both the Houses of Parliament as also to the process of nation-state 
building. In spite of the sea change that is taking place all around us, her ideas and 
ideals would continue to inspire us in the quest for a better India. Hence the relevance 
of this publication. 


The book is divided into two Parts. Part I contains a Profile of Smt. Indira Gandhi 
which gives glimpses of her eventful life and achievements. 


(11) 


Part II titled “Speeches in Parliament” contains about 245 Speeches and Statements 
made by her in both the Houses of Parliament during her long parliamentary career, 
as a member, as a Minister and as the Prime Minister. These speeches cover the 
whole gamut of social, economic and political issues of those times. The India of 
1960s, 1970s as well as of 1980s has found reflection in these speeches. 


The speeches are indicative of Smt. Gandhi's firm faith in democracy, her desire 
to ensure equality of opportunity for all, her respect for colleagues, concern about the 
fissiparous tendencies among some sections of our society, her urge for ensuring a 
better life for mankind, and her dream to cultivate a feeling of fraternity among the 
developing and developed nations. The speeches are also notable for their refreshing 
Originality as they reflect a spontaneous flow of thoughts, reactions and responses 
during the debates in Parliament. They reveal many unknown facets of Smt. Gandhi’s 
personality which would otherwise have remained hidden. Her wit, wisdom, dedication, 
sincerity, Commitment, tolerance, affection towards the masses and other such qualities 
can be found in these speeches. They also bring out her irresistible charm, : incisive 
intellect and the captivating style of speaking. 


The speeches have been arranged under twelve broad subject-headings or Sections. 
All the speeches delivered by Smt. Indira Gandhi while replying to the debates on 
the Motions thanking the President for his Addresses to Parliament have been placed 
under the Section ‘National Policy Framework’. All her speeches in reply to the 
Motions of No-Confidence in the Council of Ministers have been brought together 
under the Section ‘No-Confidence Motions’. Other speeches have been arranged 
under ten Sections, keeping in view the dominant theme of each speech. 


The speeches in each Section have been arranged chronologically except in Section 
9 titled ‘India and the World’ and Section 11 titled ‘Personalities’. In these two 
Sections, the speeches relating to one subject have been brought together to facilitate 
systematic study and reference. Efforts have been made to include in this Volume, all 
the main speeches of Smt. Indira Gandhi in Parliament, leaving out only small 
Statements, interventions and obituary references made by her. The speeches have 
been suitably edited. On many occasions, she had spoken in Hindi. Free translations 
of these speeches have been incorporated. As such, the speeches published in the 
Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha debates should be treated as authentic. 


We are deeply beholden to Shri Shivraj V. Patil, Hon’ble Speaker of Lok Sabha 
for the initiative he took for this publication and also for his inspiration and guidance 
at every stage for bringing out this book and also for giving a valuable Foreword. 


We are immensely grateful to Shri K. Natwar Singh, a former Union Minister of 
State, an eminent parliamentarian and a close associate of Smt. Indira Gandhi, for 


(iv) 


penning down in his inimitable style, a very perceptive profile of Smt. Gandhi for 
this Volume. In a few pages he has captured the essence of her charming personality. 


Dr. R.C. Bhardwaj, my predecessor, provided able leadership and direction to our 
officers and staff and personally devoted considerable time and energy for the early 
completion of this project. We are indeed indebted to him. 


I must also express my deep appreciation for the hard work done by 
Smt. Reva Nayyar, Joint Secretary, Shri John Joseph, Director, Library and Reference, 
Research, Documentation and Information Service, Shn R.C. Ahuja, Joint Director, 
Smt. Kalpana Sharma and Smt. Kanta Pandit, Assistant Directors, Shn A.K. Singh 
and Shri Sanjay Kumar, Research Assistants in bringing out this publication in record 
time. 


Our thanks are also due to the Publishers of this book, M/s. Jainco Art India, who 
have brought it out in a very short time and have done a real good job. 


We hope this Volume would be found useful by parliamentarians, academics, 
researchers and journalists as also by the general readers. 


Surendra Mishra 
New Delhi Secretary-General 
January, 1996 Lok Sabha 


CONTENTS 


FOREWORD ie ces ies 
PREFACE es 3३५ es 
Part I 
PROFILE 
Part Il 
SPEECHES IN PARLIAMENT 


1. NATIONAL POLICY FRAMEWORK 


Consensus and Cooperation for Nation-Building 
National Development 

The Challenges Ahead 

A Synoptic View of Government Policies 
Economic Growth and Political Evolution 
Democracy and Development 

Problems and Prospects of Indian Economy 
Measures to Eradicate Poverty 

Arthik Swaraj 

Self-Reliance 

Issues Before the Nation 

Challenges Before the Nation 

Reforms in the Food Policy 

In Defence of Government Policies 


पर SF 


नाच 


A Bird’s Eye-View of Government Policies 147 cS 
Reaffirming Faith in Democracy 157 Bee 
Twenty-Point Programme se a 171 oS 
Nation-Building—New Directions ae 182 
Progress with Stability ५३७ aod 197 
Working for a Self-Reliant India se aus 209 
Upheaval in the Economy sos ३३५ 215 


(vil) 


Overall Government Performance oe se 225 


A Review of Government Policies oe ah 232 
Looking for a New Breakthrough us aie 239 
Challenges of Economic Backwardness os ce 246 
Leading the Nation on the Road to Progress a sa 251 
2. NO-CONFIDENCE MOTIONS 
India Simply Cannot Fail as on 269 
True Faith in Democracy i a 277 
Problems of Growth and Development se oe 281 
India and Pakistan: The Kutch Award Peg oe 289 
Unity of the Country os 293 
Accountability of the Executive to Parliament si wnt 303 
Democracy in India | sas 48६ 311 
Struggle of Railway Employees as bs 322 
Anti-Inflationary Programmes a sts 331 
Decline in Economic Growth Rate se ve 342 
Defeat the Forces of Destabilisation 349 
Our Basic Objective—Self-Reliance | ‘361 
3. ECONOMIC POLICIES, PROGRAMMES AND PLANS 
Gold Policy ace a 373 
Planning Commission ae be 375 
Fourth Five-Year Plan Re a 377 
Unemployment Among Engineering Graduates be he 379 
Role of Planning Commission “ie 382 
Planning Commission-Its Role and Functions os ee 387 
Objectives of Fourth Five-Year Plan ins sas 395 
Bank Nationalisation ie 417 
Supreme Court’s Order on the Nationalisation of Banks ... sti 424 
Growth with Stability a oe 425 
Equality-Based Growth ae va 448 
New Steel Plants a 455 
Finance Bill, 1970 ee ve 457 
Implementation of Fourth Five-Year Plan dos 471 
Resources for the Defence Sector ae ies 482 
Loan from IMF ee ae 489 


4. SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY 
Installation of High-Powered Transmitter _ sive 493 


Peaceful Use of Atomic Energy oa ae 496 


Apollo-13 a ve 500 बा 
Nuclear Technology for India ee — 501 0 
Council of Scientific and Industrial Research ae ae 505 
Underground Nuclear Explosion Experiment et ae 509 
Launching of First Indian Satellite sh ae 512 
Launching of SLV-3 ae iA 513 
Successful Launching of APPLE sas ae 514 
Indian Expedition to Antarctica ie 516 
5. PARLIAMENTARY AND CONSTITUTIONAL ISSUES 
Fifty-fifth Report of the PAC bes sia 521 
Privy Purses and Privileges of Former Rulers en a 525 
The Constitution : Not A Static Document की हि 539 
Parliamentary Supremacy a ae 541 
The Constitution and Social Justice se ve 551 
Abolition of Privy Purses bee a 559 
Role of the Opposition in Parliament bee 563 
Parliament’s Right to Amend the Constitution cas seas 566 
Bill Relating to Resettlement in Jammu and Kashmir _.... _ 573 
6. NATIONAL UNITY AND INTEGRITY 
Shiv Sena sie — 579 
Language and National Unity ak 580 
Our Foremost Concern—-Unity and Integrity a: 587 
Communal Riots a 589 
Request from Tamil Nadu for a Separate Standard ae sts 592 
Promoting National Integration 597 
Nation-Building 605 
Demand for Inclusion of Nepali in the Eighth Schedule of the Constitution 612 
Situation Arising out of Communal Riots as bat 613 Fee 
Agony of Violence ae ait 619 
Communalism 623 fee 
7. SOCIAL WELFARE AND PROTECTION OF WEAKER SECTIONS 
Atrocities on Harijans ag on 633 
Welfare of Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes ee 635 
Rehabilitation of Disabled Servicemen and War Widows 638 
Atrocities on Adivasis se 640 


(ix) 


Protection and Welfare of Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes cad 641 


Removal of Economic and Social Injustices to Women ... oe 648 
Status of Women eas कद 651 
Atrocities on Harijans and Adivasis-A Stigma on Society... uy 654 
Blind Men’s Grievances ‘ae a 656 
Reservation of Jobs to Help the Under-privileged ee ihe 657 
8. STATE POLITICS AND UNION-STATE RELATIONS 
Talks with Naga Leaders seg ba 661 
Disturbances in West Bengal su te 663 
Explosions in the North-East 666 
Tackling Hostile Nagas sats se 667 
Situation in Assam, Nagaland and Manipur ae ce 669 
Development of Telengana ae 671 
Statehood for Manipur and Tripura ies की 674 
Statehood for Meghalaya ae ae 675 
Minister to Deal with Problems of West Bengal ace iG 678 
Mulki Rules sae 680 
Accord with Sheikh Abdullah oh 691 
Situation in Assam ae sek 707 
Demonstration 1n Bengal over the Situation in Assam 709 
Agitation in Assam 710 
The Country is Higher than Any Movement os i 718 
Sarkaria Commission ee) dues 724 
Situation in Punjab and Haryana sis 727 Ee 
Punjab Problem we = 732 ६& . 
Dismissal of Shri N.T. Rama Rao’s Ministry मर किक 744. £ _ 
9. INDIA AND THE WORLD 
Visit of the Vice-President of the United States 536 751 
Indo-US Relations oe = 753 
India’s Foreign Relations abe ae 758 
India’s Foreign Policy bas 08 762 
India’s International Relations ae sr 768 
A Broad Look at Foreign Policy a Was 778 
India and West Asia sie - 786 
Territorial Dimension of Indo-Pak Relations : Construction of Mangla Dam 790 
Plight of Indians in the Indian Enclaves in East Pakistan ... ae 794 


India, Pakistan and West Germany ae co 7196 


The Kutch Award 
Indo-Pak Relations—Settlement of Boundary Disputes 
Relief to Cyclone Victims in East Pakistan 


Facing the Challenges: Situation on Indo-Pak Border, 1971 


Defending India’s Sovereignty and Integrity 

Defence of India 

Surrender of Pakistani Forces in Bangladesh 
Indo-Pak War 1971: Declaration of Ceasefire by India 
Indo-Pak Relations 

U.N. Membership to China 

Emergence of an Independent State of South Yemen 
Expulsion of Indians from African Countries 
Jurisdiction over Katchchativu Island 

Katchchativu Island 

Efforts to Bring Normalcy in Sri Lanka 

Situation in Sri Lanka 

The Sn Lankan Tangle 

Execution of Africans in Southern Rhodesia 
Execution of African Patriots in Southern Rhodesia 
‘Independence of Mauritius 

India and Disarmament 

Czech-Soviet Dispute and India 

India’s Stand on the Crisis in Czechoslovakia 

India and Latin America 

India-Burma Relations 

India and the Cambodian Cnisis 

Developments in East.Bengal 

Solidarity with the People of East Bengal 

Situation in Bangladesh 

Independence Movement in Bangladesh 

Relief to Refugees from Bangladesh 

Trial of Sheikh Muyibur Rahman 
India Symbolises the Urge for Peace, Freedom and Justice 
Recognition to Bangladesh 


Friendship, Cooperation and Peace Between India and Bangladesh 


Crisis in East Bengal 
Indo-Soviet Friendship 
Situation in Lebanon 


(x1) 


Israeli Invasion of Lebanon se oe 920 


Visit to Libya and Tunisia act hs 924 
10. MEDIA 
Freedom of the Press se ae 927 
Streamlining of Information and Broadcasting Ministry ... २३६ 930 ५ 
A Glance at the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting ue 934 ' 
Press Council Bill 31 as 941 
Newsprint Policy मा ee 944 
11. PERSONALITIES 
Felicitations to - Shri N. Sanjiva Reddy ee se 953 
- Shri V.V. Giri oe ae 954 
- Shn 0. 5. Dhillon ed ad 955 
- Prof. G. G. Swell = 957 
- Dr.G. S. Dhillon and Shri S. L. Shakdher ses 959 
- जा 8.1२. Bhagat a o 960 
- Shn Bal Ram Jakhar aie ee 962 
- Shn M. Hidayatullah Mise 963 
- Shri G. Lakshmanan .. —s- 964 
Farewell to - Dr. Zakir Husain see 965 
- Smt. Violet Alva and Shri Jaisukhlal Hathi sat 968 
- Retiring Members a 969 
- Shri M. Hidayatullah sie 971 
12. MISCELLANEOUS . 
Celebrating Netaji’s Birthday = ae 975 
Drought and Famine Conditions in Orissa ee 977 
Resignation by Shri Gulzarilal Nanda 0७५ 982 
Earthquake in Western India — sas 984 
Floods 985 
Business Connections of Relatives of Ministers = es 987 
Third Pay Commission sad ५ 989 
Meetings Between Shri T. T. Krishnamachari and Some Government Officials 991 
Earthquake in Gujarat er as 997 
Railway Workers’ Strike ie he 998 
Elections in Gujarat मा sere 1000 
INDEX 


(xii) 


Part | 


PROFILE 


Smt. Indira Gandhi 


~ पा RPM ay sr 555 2 भर 


aide ae 2 
Le ७-० 5 er be - 


Indira Gandhi : A Profile 


By 
K. Natwar-Singh 
Member, Eighth Lok Sabha 
Union Minister of State - 1984-1989 


Both Pandit Jawaharlal Nehru and Smt. Indira Gandhi, when they assumed office, had 
no administrative or parliamentary experience. In no time both mastered the art of 
government and at the same time became accomplished and formidable parliamentarians. 


Smt. Indira Gandhi had been a Member of the Rajya Sabha for a few months and 
Minister of Information and Broadcasting in Shastriji’s Government. It was only after 
assuming office in 1966 and becoming a Member of the Lok Sabha that the country 
became aware of her administrative and parliamentary gifts. It was said she was initially 
uncomfortable in the Lok Sabha. She soon proved everyone wrong. She learnt rapidly, 
becoming a consummate parliamentarian. She dominated the House and provided it some 
of its most memorable and ecstatic moments. She thrilled Parliament in December 1971. 


All too often, Smt. Indira Gandhi is depicted as formal, forbidding, solemn, severe 
and silent. What is seldom mentioned 1s that this charismatic, beautiful, sparkling human 
being was a great lover of books, a voracious reader, a great humanist, with a wide range 
of non-political interests. She had exquisite taste, a distinctive style, uncommon elegance, 
charm and a great sense of humour. 


Like her father, she was a lover of words and phrases. She took great pains over her 
speeches and invariably improved and enlivened drafts put up to her - a quotation here, 
a phrase there made all the difference. And humour too, as will become evident from 
reading the speeches included in this Volume. 


A Prime Minister is the prime persuader. Indira Gandhi proved this time and again. 
What was her hold on the masses? It is no. exaggeration to say that no other politician 
had been seen and heard by a larger number of human beings. She was in some 
extraordinary way able to identify herself with them. The people believed she cared for 
them. Garibi Hatao was not an empty slogan. It caught the imagination of the people. 


Jawaharlal Nehru was a great letter writer. So was Indira Gandhi. Her correspondence 
was as voluminous as it was varied. Letter writing was a therapy for her. Letters abolished 


distance. Broke barriers. Young and old, artists and authors, scientists and social workers, 
politicians and freedom fighters, children and teachers, from all over the world, wrote to 
her. She tried to reply to as many as she could. She was an inspired communicator and 
used both the spoken and written word to get her message across. 


She was endowed with a fabulous memory. She personally knew a large number of 
Congress workers in every State of the Union. She remembered their names. Always 
asked after their children. Thus she had over the years built an independent national 
political base. Her appeal cut across religion, region, gender. The Syndicate in 1969 had 
organisational control, but could not match her political following. 


Indira Gandhi had the gift for establishing immediate rapport with a wide range of 
people and make them feel comfortable. She could, when occasion demanded, be cold 
in a Studied manner. 


India and India’s honour meant everything to her. No one got away with even the 
mildest slippage in that area. Her response would be steely and clear as some world 
leaders discovered to their discomfiture. 


Her political achievements are too well known to be enumerated. Unlike her father, 
she did not have an easy political ride. Nor was she as fortunate as he was in his 
colleagues and critics. She fought and overcame formidable obstacles, inside the Congress 
party and outside. 


Indira Gandhi was the first world leader to speak up on Environment - in 1972 at 
Stockholm. She carried forward her father’s pioneering work in scientific, technological 
and space areas. Another equally great achievement was making India self-sufficient in 
food. 


Even in the midst of a crisis she never lost her poise or balance. Out came an Ogden 
Nash poem, a quotation from Robert Frost, or “Alice-in-Wonderland’. She was in so 
many ways an original individual. She was an accomplished linguist, spoke French fluently. 
When questioned who her favourite person in history was, she answered - 
Adi Sankaracharya. One day I asked her to name one book she would like to have if 
marooned on a desert island. Without hesitation she said — the Oxford English Dictionary. 


Indira Gandhi loved mountains and rivers, animals and birds. She could animatedly 
discuss ornithology with Salim Ali (whom she nominated to the Rajya Sabha), and 
education with Ivan Illich. With authors and wniters, she felt at ease and personally knew 
several. Iris Murdoch, the British novelist, was at school with her - Badminton in England. 
Together they wrote a play - “A Very Mellow-Drama.” 


Her elegance and style were tempered with austerity. This was a legacy of the freedom 
movement. She disliked ostentation. I remember once bringing her a modest gift. She 
accepted with grace adding, “You know, Natwar, one can do without so much”. A simple 


yet complex comment. She hated waste, and waste of time above all. Herself, she packed 
36 hours in 24, 


If 1971 was a triumphant year for her, 1983 was a celebration. She presided over the 
NAM and Commonwealth Summits, both held in Delhi. Both Summits were near 
organisational miracles. Nothing went wrong because the Prime Minister took personal 
and daily interest in the run up to these two historic events. Here we saw the culmination 
of a life full of intense drama and spectacular grandeur. 


The imposition of the Emergency was out of character. Left to herself, she would not 
have taken that extreme option. She atoned for it by announcing elections in January 
1977. She lost. She suffered. She returned with a massive popular mandate in January 
1980. The people of India are generous and fair-minded. Their wisdom, their understanding 
are the best hope for our democracy, which Indira Gandhi did much to sustain and 
strengthen. 


She was snatched away when needed most. That day the spring went out of my life, 


but her memory endures and as do the soul-stirring, prophetic, fateful words she uttered 


a day before her assassination. She died standing on her feet. She obviously had a 
premonition about her death— 


“If I die a violent death as some fear and a few are plotting, I know the violence will 
be in the thought and the action of the assassin, not in my dying — for no hate is dark 
enough to overshadow the extent of my love for my people and my country; no force 
is strong enough to divert me from my purpose and my endeavour to take this country 
forward”, 


Here is greatness for you. 


Part Il 


SPEECHES IN PARLIAMENT 


Smt. Indira Gandhi taking Oath of Office and Secrecy as 
Minister of Information and Broadcasting in the 
Union Cabinet on 2 July, 1964 


Smt. Indira Gandhi at a meeting with the Leaders of the Opposition Parties 


at Parliament House on 15 March, 1967 


Smt. Indira Gandhi at a meeting with some Members of Parliament 
at Parliament House on 27 July, 1983 


Smt. Indira Gandhi with the President of France, Mr. Francois Mitterrand 
in New York on 29 September, 1983 during a visit to the United Nations 


Smt. Indira Gandhi with the British Prime Minister, Mrs. Margaret Thatcher 
in New York on 30 September, 1983 


Smt. Indira Gandhi addressing a Press Conference at 
Vigyan Bhavan, New Delhi, on 13 October, 1983 


Smt. In 


dira Gandhi at the Commonwealth Heads of Government Meeting 
in New Delhi on 23 November, 1983 


Smt. Indira Gandhi with the Heads of Government from other 
Commonwealth countries in New Delhi on 23 November, 1983 


Smt. Indira Gandhi addressing Press Conference after conclusion of 
the Commonwealth Heads of Government Meeting on 29 November, 1983 


Smt. Indira Gandhi with the President, Shri Zail Singh and other dignitaries 
arriving at the Central Hall of Parliament House on the occasion of the 
President's Address to Parliament on 23 February, 1984 


1 


NATIONAL POLICY FRAMEWORK 


Consensus and Cooperation for Nation - Building“ 


Madam Deputy Chairman, many Members have rightly talked about the recent 
elections. These elections have brought into focus a unique democratic experiment and 
we of the Congress are willing and even determined to see it through. The national 
consensus which used to be achieved within an all-embracing Congress is now being 
institutionalised, in Governments of various hues and persuasions which are attempting a 
working relationship with the Centre. In fact there is no other way in a federal India, and 
] think that there is health in this kind of political compettion, which is at the base of all 
democratic activity. The very nature of this experiment demands from every Party a total 
devotion to common national tasks and objectives. These can be worked out in free and 
frank exchanges between the parties, for only then can we cement and enrich our unity. 
The Congress has always worked for unity and we will continue to do so. I think that any 
threats to subvert unity should be tackled with equal determination. 


This raises the question of our functioning in the Legislatures and in Parliament. I 
believe that this is in the interest of all Parties. As I mentioned on a previous occasion, we 
are all of us, all the Parties which are represented in the House today, either the Ruling 
Party or Opposition. We all belong to both in some State or another. 


2 मंद ae 24 a ek ak 


The Congress has always faced up to realities and it will continue to face up to them. 
It is in the interest of all Parties to work out a style of work which will not damage our 
democratic institutions, so that we do not spend our energy in making a mockery of these 
institutions and destroying the very fabric of the democratic structure. 


ape teak ae मंद मं ae मंद ak 


Those who refuse to grow within the constitutional boundaries of our Republic should 
be isolated and fought and I think the Congress will do so. But at the same time it will try 
its utmost to seek cooperation from all those who value our democratic structure and are 
willing to work within it. 

aK oe भर ae जंध मं eK मर 


Life teaches many strange lessons. As I said just now , the situation has greatly changed. 
The Congress was once accused of being a multitude of different attitudes and views. Many 


* Replying to the debate on the Motion of Thanks on the President’s Address, R.S. Deb., 27 March, 1967, 
cc. 807-20. 


11 


hon. Members used to speak of the need for polarisation, more precise thinking and position. 
Now, we find that the Congress is moving towards action-oriented policies, while it 1s the 
hon. Members opposite who are joining together in elections and in Governments, that is, 
Members holding different views, adhering to different policies, without any semblance 
of agreement on these policies. Communists, Swatantra Members and Jana Sanghis... 


a a ak ek मै ae ak ak 


I am glad you have pleasure in it.* We do not wish to deny you that pleasure, but it is 
not our concern. We have never felt so and I have said so not only during the elections 
but before the elections and after the elections, that our aim 1s not that only the Congress 
should do certain things but that certain things should be done. I have stated on behalf of 
the Central Government that we will fully cooperate with all those who are involved in 
solving our national problems. I think the nation awaits the formulation of a comprehensive 
policy to tackle these problems which have come to a head, not as some hon. Members 
have suggested, because of faulty policies. I do not deny that there may have been shortfalls 
and shortcomings and mistakes. At the same time, we cannot also deny the fact of the 
repeated aggression on our borders and the effect that it has had on the country’s economy 
or of the effect of the unprecedented drought and the manner in which the monsoon has 
behaved. All hon. Members are fully aware that not only have the monsoons failed us 
repeatedly, but even the winter rains did not come at the right time. In fact they have come 
at a time when they could do and have done the maximum damage to standing crops. These 
are facts which cannot be denied. I think that the Congress is capable of forging a 
comprehensive policy and of implementing it with energy that perhaps an alliance of 
Opposites cannot muster. 


The President’s Address has to be considered in this context and the items that it has 
mentioned have to be expanded into programmes. Weapons of implementation must also 
be forged at the same time. My only regret is that the debate, although it recognises the 
great change that has come about in the country, does not really attempt to meet that change. 
They talk about it but the debate goes on if I might so call it. on an emotional and 
generalised pitch. The problems we face demand close and detailed study. They cannot be 
solved by dogmatic assertions. In the coming months we hope that all of us together can 
involve ourselves and that especially hon. Members of the Opposition, will also attempt 
to involve themselves more fully in the totality of the problems and attempt to offer a more 
concrete solution. For our part, for my part, I have asked my Ministers to try and have 
meaningful dialogues with all those who are interested in tangible results rather than in 
securing debating points or headlines in the newspapers. 


Now the problems are known. What we have to attempt is to achieve somekind to of 
broad consensus. The solutions suggested.here differ considerably and it is not really 
possible to have any one solution. But we must try to achieve some kind of consensus 
and the greatest cooperation that is possible. I mentioned elections. We all realise and the 
President himself has said that they were a victory of democracy and victory of the people. 
I think we have to thank for this, the impartial and excellent organisation of the Election 


* Replying to Shri Bhupesh Gupta who quipped, ‘To keep you out of power is a great pleasure”. 


Bites री लक oa tar ak, 
ee ye a 


a a १५, 


12 


Commissioner and this colleagues. Many remarks have been made about the Congressmen 
who have lost. Now, some people have always lost in every election. This time larger 
numbers of Congressmen have lost, but so have many leaders from Parties of the 
Opposition. 1 think the new generation which has grown to adulthood, wanted new faces 
and wherever they could find them, they have voted for them. I think this is the true 
strength of our system, i.e. to achieve change through peaceful democratic methods and 
so; therefore, while we miss our friends and comrades here that is, in the last Lok Sabha, 
we do welcome this process, because we feel that any other method would be disastrous 
to India. We have renounced violence and we feel that violence is a negation of democracy. 
I regret that we do have people in our country who still advocate violence sometimes. I 
have welcomed the formation of new Governments even those which have been formed 
by non—Congress Parties, and I have said and I mean to adhere to this that I respect the 
verdict of the people . While we are talking of the Congress Party, I think we cannot forget 
the fact that the Congress not only won independence but did give continuity and stability 
to the country at a time when these were essential. Therefore, Congress really helped 
democracy to take root. At the same time I am glad that peaceful alternatives are emerging 
and that the people are exercising their choice. Then I spoke on these issues earlier and 
pointed out certain dangers, it was not that there was danger in anybody else forming the 
ruling party but the danger in opportunist alliances which sometimes put small groups in 
a bargaining position. Therefore, it 1s our actions in Parliament and in the State Assemblies 
which will determine the course of future events. As I said, as far as the Centre 1s concerned, 
we have offered and we will continue to offer our whole hearted cooperation to the States. 
I am fully aware of the difficulties in the way because many of these difficulties were 
there before even when there were Congress Governments in all the States. We did have 
these difficulties, problems of State versus Centre or State versus State and at a time of 
economic difficulty or food shortage these difficulties are naturally accentuated and it may 
be that a coalition or non-Congress Government which is in power may think that certain 
attitudes are being taken merely because they happen to belong to another party. But I 
would like to as sure them that this is not at all. Where there is a difficulty the difficulty 
would be of such a nature as all States would have to face in any circumstance; that is 
because of the very critical situation in which the whole country finds itself today. 


In all the States the changeover was smooth and speedy. There was one notable 
exception about which a great deal has been said 1n the House, and that is Rajasthan. The 
President himself expressed his distress over it and I also must say that we are not at all 
happy at what happened. I do not want to go into the details because the Home Minister 
has already given a comprehensive statement in both Houses of Parliament. I can only 
hope that there also the situation will be such that normal conditions and responsible 
Government can come into being soon. 


The most serious problem before us today 18 that of the economic situation and it was 
natural that many hon. Members should touch on it. Here again both the diagnosis and 
the treatment suggested differed widely. Many Members,—I was here when the hon. 
Member, Shri Setalvad was speaking-spoke of the failure on the food front. But I have on 
a previous occasion spoken in this House regarding the herculean effort which was made 


8०25 के ४ ४ 
जन ना: 


13 


in dealing with drought relief. It was not a small problem and I think that perhaps hon. 
Members do not have a full idea of the terrible human tragedy which was averted because 
of the tremendous administrative and other organisational efforts made at that time, and I 
have earlier paid a tribute and I would like to do so again to the people of all these areas 
who helped in no small measure in dealing with this problem. The food situation remains 
acute. Earlier I talked about the rain. The present untimely winter rain has further 
complicated the situation, although it has brought some relief to another problem which is 
as acute as, if not more acute even than the food problem which is the problem of drinking 
water specially in Bihar and some parts of U.P. This is a serious problem not only for 
animals but also for human beings, and specially in the rocky areas of Palamau district 
and Mirzapur district we have tried to mobilise rigs from all over the country from the Oil 
and Natural Gas Commission, foreign countries, private agencies, from wherever we could 
get rigs we have tried to mobilise them, but even now we have not enough. We are shortly 
having a meeting of Chief Ministers to discuss the food problem and I have assured the 
Bihar and U.P. Governments that they will have our fullest co-operation. I hope myself to 
visit the affected areas as soon as possible. 


Shri Setalvad referred to the Food Minister, Shri Jagjivan Ram. I was sorry to hear his 
observations because I thought that Shri Jagjivan Ram was rather suited to this portfolio. 
He has the requisite political status. He has had Jong administrative experience which can 
give the required push to the present programmes of food distribution and of increasing 
agricultural production. He is himself a man of the people and he comes from an area 
which has suffered in this drought. So he is personally aware of the problem and I think 
he understands farmers’ and workers’ problems better than many of us. Our problem 1s 
not merely of foodgrains, although it 1s a serious problem, but also of nutntion. In this 
country we have unfortunately considered food merely in terms of foodgrains. I think we 
must change our thinking on this and make the term ‘food’ a much wider term and include 
all items which can give nourishment, specially so in dealing with growing children. 


The other question which was stressed here is that of rising prices which is one which 
is causing us much concer. To some extent a developing economy does bring about rising 
prices. It has been so practically in every country and the real reply to it lies in greater 
production and the supply of essential consumer goods through institutionalised 
arrangements like the Super Bazar, which keeps prices down. Wherever we have this kind 
of arrangement we find that some relief has been given to the people. The President has 
mentioned that a major objective, in the economic sphere, is to achieve greater production, 
and to secure more active support, participation and involvement of the people and the 
cooperation of all parties. The objectives have not been questioned but they should represent 
an agreed national urge and a national will. We must all now concentrate our energies 
towards rapid transformation. When I say this I do not mean that there has been no 
transformation in the last twenty years because a great deal has been done, and many of 
our problems are because of this rapid transformation. Transformation and change do create 
their own problems, they do create new demands and today we are on the threshold of a 
new era. The post-independence generation requires many things which the earlier 
generation did not and they rightly demand them. Here again in the speeches of the 
Opposition Members we had such divergent views as those expressed by hon. Member, 


PAE 20 OTRAS ESS re 
LOD PA 
८८2 ५०८ oe 


2222 


eee) 
कक का 


oe 
1406 
fates 

3 a 
‘ 


20222 


Shn Dahyabhai Patel, and on the other side by Shri Niren Ghosh and Dr. Ahmad. Mr. 
Dahyabhai Patel was for less control and the others were for more State control. We are 
not tied to dogmas, but we still do believe in socialism, not as a dogma but because we 
want to work for people as a whole, not for any one group or class interests. While we 
believe in equal rights, at the same time, we believe, as I have repeatedly stated in this 
House, that there are weaker sections which need special help. But the aim is always to 
have the maximum production in the shortest possible time. One of the factors which have 
hampered efficiency is delay in decision. We have now appointed a Special Officer in the 
Cabinet Secretariat to ensure quick decisions and to investigate delay and to pursue matters 
to see that nothing gets blocked. 


We are also making an effort to mobilise managerial talent and to secure adequate 
technocratic association. The Deputy Prime Minister is applying his mind to the ughtening 
of tax collection and to simplifying procedures of this collection. Other important measures 
are those of export promotion and austerity in consumption, especially of exportable articles. 


A question which has been occupying the minds not only of the Government but of 
many different organisations and people is how to make the fullest utilisation of the potential 
and capacity for industrial production. Now I have urged an urgent survey of idle and 
unutilised capacity and also a high-level review of the causes of low profitability in the 
working of the public sector. One of the expenses is the heavy outlay on housing. We are 
trying to check this. But at the same time, it is important to give reasonable amenities to 
the people who have to work in out-of-the-way places where no facilities are available. 
We are also attempting a greater economy and a more strict financial discipline. 


The President has mentioned about a review of the structure and functioning of the 
Planning Commission in view of the new difficulties that we face and in view of certain 
changed circumstances. The Planning Commission has done good work in the past, but 
all work should constantly be reviewed to see that it meets the requirements of the day, 
and we are thinking of re-organisation at all levels. Up to now, there was a certain amount 
of duplication between the Commission and the Ministry. This we are attempting to reduce. 
The Administrative Reforms Commission is going to make recommendations which we 
expect shortly. And we also intend to discuss these matters with the Chief Ministers. 


Some hon. Members have commented on the fact that more definite policies were not 
stated in the President’s Address. I am sure they will realise that it was difficult to do so 
in this present session, specially because there are these different Governments in the States. 
1118 necessary to talk thing over with them and to have their views on a number of matters 
before we can express ourselves finally. And one of the matters that we have also referred 
to them is the question of the recommendation made by the Reforms Commission regarding 
the Lok Pal to look into various allegations and the question of integrity of those who are 
in high offices. The Central Government has agreed in principle to the need for institutional 
arrangement, but we have also to get the views of the States since they are also involved 
in this. 


We are also awaiting recommendations regarding labour of the Gajendragadkar 
Commission. Government is fully aware of the difficulties faced by Government servants. 
But at the same time, we feel that a mere wage increase is not the real answer to their 


economic difficulties. Indeed a mere wage increase may well prove self-defeating as it 
gets up into this spiral of rising prices. | 

Now one matter which has caused a great deal of concern in the South is the question 
of language. There is, as we have repeatedly stated, no question of imposing Hindi on any 
one. Every State is free to adopt its régional language in its own areas, and English will 
remain an associate language as long as it is deemed necessary. We would like to bring in 
legislation as soon as possible. The whole argument about Hindi sometime goes off the 
rails. It is not a question of one part of the country trying to force something on another 
part. It is a question of what is the practical necessity for the whole. It is essential to have 
a national link language, and Hindi was thought of as such a link. At no time was it in 
competition with any of the regional languages. Already many people in the South have 
been learning Hindi and those of them who are here working in large numbers in the North 
have shown how quickly and easily they learn the languages of the North wherever they 
work-not only Hindi, but in Bengal, Bengali, in Assam, Assamese and so on. 


I have mentioned already about special attention being paid to the weaker sections of 
our population. Now many special programmes have been initiated and worked out, but 
we are fully aware that they have not been adequate and that we will have to pay far greater 
attention to these under-privileged sections of our people and especially Harijans and tribals 
and some of our minorities. These are the people who are in need of more specific 
programmes, and not only assurances but the implementation of those assurances, and that 
we will do. 


Now just one word about our foreign policy. Our foreign policy has had two objectives 
really, the national interest and international co operation and peace. I think that our policy 
has been fully vindicated, and if it remains unchanged, it is not just because we want to 
stick to something which we have said and we are rigid about it, but because we feel that 
it still serves our national interest. A policy, of course, in whatever sphere it is, is constantly 
reviewed in the light of national and international events. 


With regard to Pakistan Government’s policy remains one which is of a positive 
approach and we will continue to make every effort for greater understanding and goodwill. 
We believe that it is only in friendship and co-operation that both the countries can deal 
with the major problem which is basically that of battling against poverty, and it has 
distressed us deeply that our reJationship should have been different. I think it would be 
futile for us to harbour distrust or mutual illwill. But in view of what has been happening 
it is not always easy. 


Some hon. Members have referred to China. Here again, our policy is well known. 
We do not want to close the door. But we have to find a way in which some basis is created 
for talks or for some kind of discussion. And I do not think it is India which has closed 
this door; on the other hand, it is the Chinese Goverment who is continuously trying to 
provoke us. We have no quarrel with the Chinese people and we wish them well. But we 
certainly feel that that Government could modify their stand of constant provocation and 
propaganda against us. 


The Home Minister has already made a statement regarding the emergency. I know 
how anxious hon. Members have been that the emergency should be lifted and perhaps, 


amore eee 
ae EEO aes 
as टी 
ne) 

222५ 


28६: 
2 


oe 


‘ ean cet) हटा» कप) ०१४१९ाटे mented parr * atta aest Vaan Oe "कान a tee sass 
SALES SON 2० ००२२०००८०::०६०7० Se Sea (12०7०. 2 ० ४, aah 12077007772९:१4::5 
2 ms os 2 O . - . '€ v 
RRR LSE O NOE DUO SSO or SO 27722 ATE OPS 77 47000: 27750 2:24 2222 12270 


they know that I myself have been very anxious for this. Certain conditions existed whereby 
it was not possible to do this immediately. But now we want to go ahead. I think hon. 
Members know that for nearly a year now recourse to emergency powers has been stopped 
in almost all the States and now, from the end of June, it will be lifted in all areas except 
those sensitive parts on the border where national security may still demand its continuance. 
But I can assure the House that it is not something which we want to abuse or to make 
use of unless it is absolutely essential. 


Now, our problems and concerns as I said in the beginning, are not of a single party. 
The nation is facing an extremely critical period. It is critical because of the aggression. 
All nations after war have faced difficult times. If you go through history, you will find 
that there are certainly natural effects of fighting, which lead to economic difficulties, 
inflation and so on. It was very bad luck that this coincided with the period of drought 
and again, it has coincided with this new look towards democracy which we welcome but 
which does make it a little more difficult because of different points of view and so on. 
So, unless the leaders of all the parties are willing to cooperate and to find some way out, 
it will be difficult for us. All parties do not agree on what is the path to follow and, therefore, 
sometimes a consensus has to be achieved. The meetings which I have had with the Chief 
Ministers uptil] now have given me the hope that there will be full cooperation from both 
sides, from the side of the Centre as well as their side. But we have yet to tackle specific 
problems, for instance, with regard to food and other matters. I am sure that if there is 
goodwill on both sides, we can face these problems together, and I can certainly assure 
them that it will not be for want of trying on our part. 


Here in Parliament also, we have started a system of consulting the leaders of the 
Opposition. I hope that we can form small groups from all parties in order to discuss specific 
problems, not just general discussions, and this will help to get this kind of concensus, 
because in this difficult period I am sure that all of us—-no matter which party we belong 
to—have one aim, which is to march forward with vigour and speed to solve the very difficult 
questions which our country Is facing. 


I am not dismayed at the problems because any person who 1s living faces problems 
and difficulties; any nation which is alive faces these problems. But what does disturb me 
is the depression or despair which is voiced here. Our country has shown vitality. That 
vitality is capable of dealing with these problems and difficulties and we must, therefore, 
face them with confidence. If we lose confidence in ourselves or in our people, for which 
there is absolutely no cause—our people have come up not only to our expectations but 
beyond our expectations in times of crisis,—it will be difficult. And I know that if we also 
work together, the people will be with us and will cooperate in the fullest measure. 
Therefore, we must have confidence in ourselves and our capacity to tackle these problems 
quickly and with determination. If we have this spirit and instead of trying to pick holes 
in things, we try to evolve a method by which we can go forward in the quickest possible 
manner, then we will find that many of these questions which have been raised here can 
be solved in the national interest and in the way that our wonderful people deserve. 


Thank you. 


00:25 Sea er 77:74 Spigot 20:22 22 pana os 
es ees wre + eae FO Cats मर ae Sept ahaa ely SaaS pe ~ ae Sa ae mothe: पक eee जन, ie rote 
ey, ASRS AR Sat 124270022 he ep PRT ear 00 पड: 2 2: ar ARR ए फट 7 22 775 धर ० ८5 
श्र Sal as 2 Saree “5, ee Ne pigs ele as जग ta as are ५ LN a ay Fy rete GAY, X बट: ate! 
Spica Ne ody Kone Oe Pe e ee मद पट कर Peay anh . a 20440 0 aha कट "ate 
AOD SAS “०1० ४2240102<3% FOES te SNe ae ed Pn PPS A ee LD tall ee पर 
SEs 50010 ARR ORC RE Et SES IE RESID eR SO NEN Oe 20207 20222 


Ss 
(4 
3 

Net 


tore! ate" 
Nee 


So 


Oe 


_ 
aap a - 
om enc 


ve 


FER SR RIS SE 


National Development* 


Mr. Speaker, Sir, this Parliament has met after three crucial months during which the 
political scene in India is transformed. This is a phenomenon which proves the vitality of our 
country, the vitality of our democratic system and the faith of our people in our system. 


Life is always changing. It is not only the Congress but even the hon. Members opposite 
who must adjust to those changes. As I said on a previous occasion here, now all of us, the 
Congress and the other parties, are in Government and outside Government. We see here many 
new faces and I had hoped that new ideas would also emerge. But listening to the debate—I 
would like to assure hon. Members that even though I was not present here all the time I did 
listen to almost all the speeches from my room—I was disappointed. I thought new ideas would 
emerge—ideas which would help to strengthen our democracy and our country. But I did not 
see much evidence of this. I do not grudge my hon. friends opposite their sense of elation or 
pleasure at the success they have gained in some States. I welcome the fact that they now 
share not only power but also the responsibility that goes with power. I am not much concerned 
with which party sits on which side 1n what State. What is important is that whichever side is 
in power uses the opportunity to solve the problems which confront our country. Along with 
this positive aspect, change brings with 1 fresh challenges, also certain dangers against which 
we have to guard. Here and there, there are evidences of small groups belonging to different 
sides, this side as well as the other side, who have tried to place themselves in a position fo 
bargain. There are some who are attracted to politics today when politics means an opportunity 
for power, and they are using this opportunity to criticise those who joined politics at a time 
when it meant unmitigated hardship. I am referring to the many Members of the Congress, 
some of whom are now in the House and a very large number outside, who have sacrificed a 
great deal... for the Congress, not merely because Congress is a party but because the Congress 
stood for certain vital values in the country. 


ek 2k ae 3k ok ee ak 


All of you were also in the Congress**. I am not denying that. But that does not mean 
that you should now consider that everything that is in the Congress is bad and that you should 
not recognise the very genuine sacrifices which so many genuine and sincere and dedicated 
workers have made to the cause of freedom and the cause of building the country after freedom. 


The most important question which we face today is the question of food and of drought 
in certain parts of the country. The other day... certain Members referred to my visit to Bihar 


* Replying to the debate on the Motion of Thanks on the President's Address, L.S. Deb., 5 April, 1967, cc. 3004 - 23. 
** Replying to Shri M.R. Masani’s remark : “Only in the Congress ?”. 


La $ 
22222 se Pp o 222 222 
Se Se RS NS 


oe 22222 2 Be hed ee nee Se 


and U.P. Therefore, I would like to say a few words on this matter. I have been to Palamau, 
Gaya and Mirzapur over the last weekend. Never have I seen the Gangetic plains so dry. The 
recent rains gave a little relief in the sense that they have helped some grass to grow, reducing 
the shortage of fodder and also delaying the crisis about the availability of drinking water. 
But this is a crisis that has only been postponed and we will have to face it within a short 


time. 


I found that a great deal of work was being done. But I also found the need to accelerate 
this work and to extend it and expand it in every way. The Centre will do all it can to supply 
needed equipment and store. We are also making an effort to enlist the support of all possible 
people who can help in this. A suggestion was made, which I welcome, that ex-servicemen 


living in those areas might help in some of these problems. 
% 

Unfortunately, there was a set back to relief work due to the elections. Now we have to 
regain the momentum again. The State Governments are doing the job and non-official agencies 
are also active, specially in Bihar. I would like to pay a tribute here to the Bihar Relief 
Committee, of which Shn Jayaprakash Narayan is the Chairman. He has gathered together a 
band of workers who are doing excellent work. The special complication in Bihar is that of 


the outbreak of smallpox. 


In Palamau District, I heard that 2 [Sic] lakhs are at work out of a total of 2 [Sic] lakhs of 
the working population, but more help is needed from non-official agencies because the coming 
three summer months will be exceedingly critical. 


In Mirzapur I found a large number of aged and destitute and, as hon. Members may have 
rcad in the newspapers, I was given some reports of starvation deaths. I, naturally, took up 
this matter with the authorities. I was given two representations, one giving specific names, a 
list of 13, of which the authorities have already investigated 11 names and they have various 
causes for death. The other representation mentioned the figure 50 but gave no details of the 
names or where these people came from. Naturally, unless we have more detailed information, 


11$ difficult to look into this. 


This question of starvation deaths was also taken up by the hon. Members here....The need 
of the hour 15 to provide all the relief that is necessary and all that is possible whether 
Government provides it or non-official agencies or the people themselves. 


The foodgrains supply is in shortage all over the country and we cannot meet the full 
demand of all the States. The Food Minister and 1 have had talks with the Chief Ministers of 
Kerala and Bihar. We will discuss this matter in greater detail at the proposed Chief Ministers’ 
Conference this weekend. 


I feel, as I have said earlier also, there is need for a national sharing of the distress, the 
need to mobilise all our energies and all our resources, to cut our lavishness and waste. This 
is something which we can only do with the full co-operation of the States. It is something 
which we must sit down and discuss and formulate a plan which can be carried out and 
implemented in all parts of the country. 


SSeS ees 
०५०५ पट Ee 


ee 
८००५ पट 

चर प्र एए गे 

ORI CaaS 


322: 


se CEES oe. 
४3% SEEN a: 
22222: 222: ete 


soe 222 2 


pana 
2222 
५५८८८ 


= ze 220 


225, 
ew 


Some have said that we would rather starve than import food. I am afraid, I cannot agree 
with this and I feel that it is an irresponsible statement to make in the present conditions. 


मं: Hk ak ee oe मद मै 


It is because we cannot import as much as is needed”: but it is a problem which the entire 
country faces and it is, as some hon. Members said, a national problem. 


When I talked of co-operation with hon. Members outside, it is not on small matters of 
procedure and thing like that—they are important and if we can work together, it is a good 
thing—but far more important is to get cooperation in these matters which are matters of 
national importance and of life and death for our people. Certainly, food comes in that category. 


Food and drought relief are the foremost problems for us. Last year we faced the same 
kind of problem and it was only through a Herculean effort that we were able to avert a great 
human tragedy. This year is even more difficult because reserves are depleted and there is 
considerable uncertainty about supplies which we can get and which we need. 


The Food Minister has already outlined the programme of short-term crops and we must 
all see that this programme is made a success. There is also the need to accelerate intensive 
cultivation programmes all over the country. Many steps are being taken to deal with this 
immediate problem in Bihar and in eastern U.P. Some people here mentioned Rajasthan. | 
would like to say that we have not at all forgotten that Rajasthan also faces this problem and 
so do areas of other States. 


There was the joint Emergency Committee for Bihar set up under the Food Minister with 
the Bihar Chief Minister and his colleagues. In the short time, it has already met three times. 


There are some figures which I would like to give to the hon. Members. I am told that 
nearly 6.5 lakhs people are employed on relief works or on Plan schemes in Bihar and the 
number may increase to 15 lakhs in the months of maximum distress which are May and June. 
Over 3.5 lakhs people have been given gratuitous relief from the State plus 2.6 lakhs, who 
are fed in free kitchens run by non-official agencies, that is, the Ramakrishna Mission, the 
Marwari Relief Society and other agencies. The international agencies like the CARE and the 
UNICEF are giving milk to 14.6 lakh people. We also received a gift of 10,000 tons from 
Italy which is valued at about Rs. 60 lakhs to Rs. 70 lakhs and this has also been used for 
giving relief through voluntary agencies. 


Drinking water is an acute problem and schemes worth over Rs. 5 crores have been 
sanctioned by the Central Government. 


118 rigs are being mobilised from all available resources—our own as well as abroad—by 
the Government, the Army and the private agencies and so on. About 66 rigs are working and 
another 33 rigs have reached the sites. Institutions like the Geological Survey of India, the 
Oil and Natural Gas Commission, the UNICEF and so on are helping in this and also the 
Governments of U.K. and Canada have offered to airlift the rigs. We are also airlifting other 


* Responding to Shri S.M. Banerjee’s remark : “‘We are importing and starving 0007", 


eR 


ge 2/००१, aE * ET See ८:7४ ५ 2 2८८५४ :22222% 22222 fe 22227:22:27: 5220 22. / 25077 
LURE SEI Eee gee Tene oi oe 
‘é ts "fan 2222 ४ " 222 Cont क 
222 Beavis apne Rn Rese 22222 2:22 2 SE ey 
222 "कट: ४27: PPL, Pe ORL EOE 


20 - 


essential things. In cattle camps, half a million heads of cattle have been provided and there 
are short-term fodder crop plans for 130,000 acres. The food supply to Bihar is being 
progressively increased from 72,000 tons in last October to 1,85,000 tons in April this year. 
Over Rs. 50 lakhs have been given from the Drought Relief Fund to U.P. and Bihar. Health 
measures are also being taken but I must confess that these need to be stepped up considerably. 


Sir, the elections have thrown up certain political challenges. But the real challenge is, 
and it remains, the economic challenge of prices and production. Many hon. Members opposite 
have talked about the economic situation. This is natural because it is a serious one. But, as 
usual, the diagnosis as well as the treatment has differed from person to person. This is what I 
mean to say, when I say that we should get together on certain things. Let us have some kind 
of a minimum programme at least on which we can agree, just on one or two national issues. 


The hon. Member, Mr. Masani, painted a gloomy picture. Mr. Hiren Mukerjee said that 
devaluation was at the root of all ills. Others questioned the food policy and so on. The main 
cause really is fall in production, mainly the fall in agricultural production. Shn Morarjibhai 
has given the blunt facts. We are not making any attempt to cover up anything or to hide 
anything. We have put all the difficulties and the seriousness of the situation very clearly before 
the House. We must now do everything possible to increase production and to cut existing 
expenditure to the bone. 


Higher production and budgetary discipline can give some respite from high prices. I think, 
that streamlining the administration and procedures is the first need and the second is to use 
the full capacity of already installed plants, and to have a full survey of their capacities. It 1s 
necessary that we try to achieve our target of swadeshi in the next 10 years. 


We are very anxious that conditions should be created in which science and technology 
can be applied to practical problems of the nation, the economic development as well as the 
security of the nation. Therefore, it is necessary to have a greater interflow between institutions 
of rescarch and development and those connected with implementation of programmes and 
also to have a larger measure of technical, scientific and technocratic association at appropriate 
Ievels of policy-making and implementation, so that a climate can be created for the most 
effective fulfilment of tasks according to modern methods of technology and science. 


In administration also, the changed situation needs changed methods and change in outlook 
also. We are trying to give greater autonomy to public sector plants and to simplify financial 
procedure so as to reduce delays which are costly and which have prevented so many of our 
schemes from getting going. 


We have policy planning cells which can at all stages look forward and see how the present 
programme fit into the programmes for the future. 


Many speakers have talked about the public sector. Those whose creeds disapprove of the 
public sector as a whole, naturally saw nothing but failure about them. I am not prepared to 
admit that failure. There have certainly been shortcomings, but there has been good work also. 
I do agree that the public sector must be run well and must produce results; must create new 
resources, and that we should try our utmost to give new re-orientation to the public sector 
which would increase its efficiency and allround profitability, modernise management, 
consolidate their investments and make efficiency their watchword. 


21 


120 


Se 
Sitios 
eg 


ta 
Co 


22 
Pal 


See 


Much interest was evinced in the future of the Planning Commission. The Administrative 
Reforms Commission has received its interim report from the Study Team and I suppose, we egg 


"will get their recommendations in a short time. Therefore, I do-not want to anticipate what 
they are going to say. But I am sorry that the Planning Commission should have come in for co 
so much criticism. It has played a valuable, even a historic, role. It has translated the economic 
vision of our nation-builders into concrete policies and it has provided a useful forum for fee 
discussions between States and the Centre. It would have been very difficult for the Government fs 
to achieve this without the Planning Commission. The objective expert composition of the - 
Planning Commission has naturally helped. I have felt that the Commission should concentrate | 
much more on the task of economic development, i.e., analysing factors and trends, assessing 


strategy and, if possible, it should present various alternatives. That is, it should be akind of =f 
an expert body which would give certain alternatives. Of course, the task of actual 
implementation falls on the State Governments. 


:222:7227::2: 
पट 
aes 2222 


Another criticism made here of the Planning Commission was that it was encroaching on 
the States. But the major decisions on the Plan, the size, strategy, priorities and allocations, 
are always taken by the National Development Council which consists of both Central and 
State representatives and even in the old days, despite the fact that there was the same party 
in power in the States, there were pulls and counter-pulls ; there were occasions when States’ 
interests were not always satisfied according to the desire of the State representatives and there 
was some clash with the Centre. This will, no doubt, continue. I sincerely hope that this will 
not be taken to mean that the Centre is not co-operating with the States, but only that the 
State problem has to be viewed in the context of the national problem. All of us have to adjust 
our programmes in that light and in that perspective. 


Federalism means that Government functioning is shared by and divided among different 
of foci of authority. 


With the changes which have come about in the recent elections, the NDC naturally assumes , 
greater importance. All the schemes which we take up are national schemes, whether they are 
in the State sector or the Central sector, because the welfare and progress of the country are 
indivisible. 


Many hon. Members have talked of Centre-State relationship. Certain Chief Ministers have 
also come out with statements on this matter. I read the other day the Address of the Governor 
of Madras. I think there need be no apprehension of friction. The Constitution is strong enough 
and also resilient enough. The problem of Centre-State relations is an uld problem... I think 
the Constitution was drawn up with foresight and its spirit is both accommodating and 
reconciliatory. It spells out division of functions to the extent possible and leaves the rest to 
discussion. 


Now, even in these three weeks of the new Government, I am heartened at the kind of 
response which we have had from the State Governments. I would like to declare once more 
that our own attitude will always be to work together with them in the national interest. 


Even if a subject is in the State list, such as Agriculture or Education, inter-State and Centre- 
State interdependence are unavoidable. 


नि . ee en a 

ye 27:22 /77 22272 Sa ee 2277 27:22 Fg IR ae Say ४ Sigs ond 
Lo Le PE SI Mo es {gp OIG OBER GOES 
: er 22222 22722:722 22 pegs ee ESS 5 ४222 
ee BOE 2722: ek Pe Ie CLL 2277 ४7207 72:22 20 ans CCC 
LD A SO ON EE ORE EL SOA TRAE EPSOM Part 


Shri A.K. Gopalan spoke of provincial autonomy. I would like him to appreciate more 
fully the spirit of our Constitution, and I would like him to look once again at the statement 
made by the Chief Minister of Kerala who said that time must be given for these relations to 
develop. 


Shri A.K. Gopalan wanted a higher share of income-tax and export earnings. Under the 
Constitution, as you all know, Finance Commission goes into this matter every five years. As 
for grants, the Study Team of the Administrative Reforms Commission 1s going into the 
question of Centre-State finance. 


Many hon. Members referred to the problem of corruption. We are as anxious as anybody 
to maintain the highest standards of personal integrity because we think that this is essential 
in public life. The Administrative Reforms Commission has recommended the institution of a 
Lokpal and a Lok Ayukt. We have nearly completed formulating our views, and we have 
approached the States. We would like to have their views also before finalising our own. 


A matter which creates great emotion is that of language. Many Members have spoken on 
this matter, Shri V. Krishnamoorthi talked of the betrayal of non-Hindi-speaking people. Shri 
H.N. Mukerjee talked of the need for imaginative handling. I think that a very good reply to 
this was given by Shrimati Tarkeshwari Sinha who very clearly said that we had no desire to 
impose Hindi on the South. Friends of the DK have spoken with deep passion on this matter. 
Our view is well known. We believe that all our languages are national languages, and of equal 
status. And any of them can be made the official language, if a State so wants. But it 1s 
important also for all of us to be able to understand each other and this was the real reason 
why we felt that one language should be a national link language. We have given a solemn 
assurance that English will be retained at the Centre as an associate link language as long as 
1 is deemd necessary. We shall move a Bill in the next session to give formal effect to this 
assurance. 


I should like to make a reference also to Urdu. 1 am very concerned with this problem. 
When certain deputations came to see me earlier, we assured them that this matter would be 
taken up most urgently. Here again, in some States there are new Governments. We will take 
up this matter when the Chief Ministers come here, and I hope that it will be satisfactorily 
solved. 


Reference was made to the delay in announcing Government’s decision regarding the 
Education Commission’s Report. The Education Minister himself was a member of this 
Commission. I am sure he will set a definite date by which to announce his decision. He is 
also setuung up a Youth Division in the Education Ministry. 


Anew Member spoke about the President’s powers. Our Constitution is clear on this issue. 
Our conventions are well-established. I do not think there is any justification for imaginary 
fears of friction. 


I should like to say one more word here about our deep concern about some sections in 
our country who have been under-privileged and who, in spite of various programmes, have 
not really had their due share. I am speaking now of our Harijan brothers and sisters, of our 
tribal brothers and sisters, of our hill people and of the very large mass of people who are 


SCP D ATS ae Seana PS fe Te ONS On PT ट्प् 2222 Ronee. Sok ८2177: ००८ 


९ के Tat ea A 22028: ns ee 2258 
OR ih * it Wi a See rene oe 20277: ripe 2 He ४ oo wa 
0 aa 05% 550705: 1255५ ROSES vevacetn ie SN ae RIN Se Oe 42722 (22 eke me 207: 
SR a eC 20% 2222%20:2: RNS RT IRIS 


23 


०.८,०००००००००० 


eee 
need 
nN 


Se 


2:52: 


Sener 


= 
= 


ogy 


40003: 
SR eS 


oe 
Noten 229 
SNS 


2:35 ४ 
2 


85६ 


15: ee 
Nieto rN 270: ०००२2 
Re RAN ES 


Se? . 
Mee fa 


“ 
oe ‘ae <A 
Sore 


<: 
22720 
फट bs 
Soe 2528 : Rae 225 2208 


५422: 
BOs 2: SNe takes 
41122022%%%464% ०२०१ ८८६००९०-१०४ 


2277: SS TN ENS SNH se TENS ST RRC TS 
OSS 7:277%777220::72:: 277 ea eres 20:77: 
spe 


Sr 
5222 
one 


Se ०८५८० 
Sen van SEN Oran 


Sah 
my 
A 


०1९०० 
se mm 


‘en ond 
A ad: a: 


IRS PS ET ETI 
BENET 


eeepc 
aS 
cr 


a5 
a 


८:०2: 2:52 


a 
22222 202 
५, A 


Se 
S 


कक 
००.९ 
५१००० 
betes: 
०१०००: 


8 


४०४ oe >} 
रे Ba 
oe 


“ £ 
22५ 
27222 
ote. 

172 


CAN 


20222 ४ ४2० 
SEE 


oe 
200 22% 


a 
eS 
RON 
TA ee 


known as the landless labour. These people have really had the worst of the difficult situation 
and we must bend all our energies to help them now in every way. 


I should like to say a few words about foreign affairs and our relations with foreign 
countries, whether they be our neighbours or whether they are situated far off. Many Members 
have touched upon this. The hon. Member, Shri Masani said that we are friendless. I think it 
is very difficult to judge who is whose friend. I do not think that we are friendless. In times of 
need, countries with different systems, different persuasions, have come to our help. I think 
the list of our friends, if we are to go into detail, is a fairly comprehensive one and it covers 
practically all continents. 


Our foreign relations are governed only by considerations of national interest and the 
nation’s security and are rooted in the firm belief that mankind 1s one family and that to exist 
we also have to co-exist. That is why we have tried always to further our national itnerests 
from the economic, political and strategic points of view and secondly to promote international 
CO-operation and peace. This was our aim in thé past and this is what will guide us in the 
future. 


I want to assure Members about one thing. Some of them have a feeling that we pursue a 
particular policy merely because it has been a declared policy. All policies are constantly under 
review, because if they do not serve the purpose of today, there is naturally no point in 
continuing with the same policies. If we continue a particular policy today, it is because on 
reviewing and re-testing, we feel that it mects the needs of today, that it meets the needs of 
national] interests. 


We also have a fundamental dedication to championing the cause of all people who are 
fighting against racialism and colonialism. Some people feel that... this is unnecessary or it 
is not our business, but we know from our own experience how much it meant to us when we 
were fighting for our freedom when there were people in other countries who appreciated our 
fight, and if they could not help us in any other way at least they could give moral support. 
Freedom is indivisible. Therefore, we arc deeply concermed with the rights of the people of 
South Africa, of Angola, Mozambique, Portuguese Guinea, Southern Rhodesia, Aden and other 
countries which have yet to attain freedom. 


ae ofc 2 oak af OK 


There are few things which are more dangerous than the consequences of racial war, and 
that is why we have opposed the policy followed in South Africa. 


Some Members have talked of the nced for a more positive policy towards Pakistan. 
Government entirely agree. We have always stated our point that it is necessary, in fact it is 
vital, for India and Pakistan to work in co-operation on as many issues and as many spheres 
as possible, because we are neighbours, because we share the same problems and difficulties. 
And we shall certainly continue to make every effort possible to have greater understanding 
and goodwill with Pakistan. It distresses us deeply that our relationship should not have been 
one of amity, and that there should be considerable distrust between these two neighbours. 


With regard to China, our policy is well known, and here agian, we have no quarrel with 
the Chinese people, and we would certainly like not to have a rigid attitude in this, but we 


. x ie = 
eat eee गाज Oy Ey EN NO *. ९, 
नी Sas Ne 
व (४) रो न 1222: 25 प्रा पं none 
oy एप 22 टेप, 


००३००:2::72%:7::7:2:202::70:%52:: 0: 5:77: 
Nese 
Y 


feel that some indication should come or some situation be created in which we can get out 
of our present rut. This has been completely lacking, but we do not believe that we should 
close the door on that matter. 


Prof. Mukerjee said that we have been silent on Vietnam. There are other Members who 
are constantly telling us that we talk too much about Vietnam. Sir, actually, I do not think we 
are silent, nor have we overstated the case. We have expressed our view whenever it was 
necessary to do so. The House knows the Government’s views on this. We fervently hope 
that peace will return to Vietnam soon. We have welcomed the various peace moves which 
have been made, including the one by the Secretary-General, U Thant, whom we shall have 
the pleasure of welcoming amidst us some time next week. And it is our hope that the problem 
can be taken away from the battle field and brought to the conference table. 


I also want to talk about something which is rather delicate. For some time now, Mr. 
Deputy-Speaker, systematic attempts have been made in this House by certain quarters to raise 
questions in one form or another about gifts received by me especially from foreign dignitaries, 
or about my personal possessions. I have denied these allegations on the floor of the House 
and I want to do so again. Since I became a Member of Parliament or entered Government, 
or earlier when I was a private citizen, I should say that, to the best of my knowledge, I did 
not infringe any of our conventions and rules relating to the acceptance of such gifts. The 
allegations and insinuations which have been sought to be raised arc false and malicious. I 
have denicd the specific allegations from time to ume. 


Mention was recently made about a diamond necklace given to me over ten years ago by 
the King of Saudi Arabia, and I have written to the Speaker at some length about this. I am 
not really worried about these allegations even though they are made day ॥ and day out. But 
there is a deliberate and sustained attempt at character assassination and 1 is for this House to 
judge and decide now long this personal villification and maligning can be allowed to continue. 


I would like to take this opportunity to make a few other observations on this matter. In 
1955, the then Prime Minister, my father, expressed the view that it would be desirable to 
apply the toshakana rules to Ministers also and that they should not retain expensive presents. 
He went on to observe that as the toshakana was not equippped properly to preserve the many 
things which were given they should be sent to museums and other suitable places where they 
might remain as State property, rather than as the personal property of the recipient. That 1s 
how he and I treated the presents which we received. Except for a stol of sable skin which 
was presented to me by Mr. Khrushchev on the Russian trip, I have not retained any other 
expensive gifts. I kept this gift because in the manner in which it was given, it was felt that it 
would perhaps be misunderstood if it were handed over. It is not the custom to make public 
the details about the presents received from Heads of States and Governments or other high 
dignitaries from friendly foreign countries. They vary considerably in nature and any 
publication of a list of presents, such as might possibly give rise to embarrassing comparisons 
between country and country, would obviously not be in keeping with the propriety and the 
dignity of our relations with those countries. It would also not be in the public interest to reveal 
how individual presents were disposcd of because such disclosures might conceivably be 
misunderstood as an act of discourtesy to the dignitaries from whom they were received. But 
a full list of all these things 18 however kept. 


A, 222 vis, 
BS 


Under the code of conduct which was adopted sometime ago and which was laid before 
Parliament, all Union Ministers send returns of their personal assets and liabilities to the Pime 
Minister. Although the code does not specifically lay. down any procedure for the Prime 
Minister, for my part I have been following the practice of placing my own statement along 
with the records of my colleagues. 


There is no intention on my part nor on the part of my colleagues to evade answering 
allegations even of a personal character which any Member might choose to level. We have 
rules and conventions about the manner in which such allegations can be raised by one Member 
against another, whether in Government or not. These rules and conventions naturally take 
into account the fact that what any of us chooses to say on the floor of this House is fully 
protected against legal consequences and highly privileged. I think it is within the nght of 
this House and indeed appropriate, that it should be possible to raise allegations against 
Members of Government or even against another Member which relate to the period of 
Membership of the House or of Government. It would be particularly open to a Member to 
raise such allegations against a minister of a nature which involves abuse of public office. 


I say all this with a sense of hesitation because from time to time various things have been 
said which concern me personally and I consider it my duty to bring them up here today. | 
sincerely feel that what this House must consider are some of the general issues that arise, 
including, if I may say so, 1n all humility, the question of how long one single Member or 
two should be allowed to persist with wild, irresponsible and baseless allegations against the 
Prime Minister of the country. 


When I began to speak, I spoke about certain national problems. Some 
hon. Members opposite tend to give the impression that it is only they who are concerned 
with the poverty in the country or with the difficulties in the country. Indeed, it is not so. In 
speaking of these, they do not speak only of the present period of difficulties or the last year 
or two. 


But they try to sweep up all the 20 years since Independence-years in which considerable 
progress was made, years in which the very face of this nation has been transformed: 


HO aK 26 2k ok ok मै 


Well, I think this is there for all to see. Except in the tribal parts and the drought-affected 
areas, there is great difference from before in the lives of our peasantry, in the lives of our 
workers and so on. But it is true that (a difficult situation has arisen) since the last few years 
and notably since 1962 since the Chinese invasion, followed by other repeated invasions, 
alongwith which we had this unprecedented drought. Hon. Members may know that at least 


in Uttar Pradesh, it is really three years since we have had hardly any rain, and even in the . 


year before, that is, the fourth year, rainfall was deficient. So, a very difficult situation has 
arisen because of this, and at the same time, we have had a rise in population and rising 
demands from our people. 


aK गंध a We मर मु aK मंद मं 


8 
. 
te 
- 
(०१, 
rs 
12; 


5222 
22282 


aren 


ease pao es 
“ 


SNPS 
. 


en 
wee 


oe 
2022 
fete 
42० ee 
०५०8 
258 
Ne 

fa 

4 
oe 

< 


22 
थे 
~ 


on 
2020 


= 
= 


2 


Se ce 
— 
Se 


Se 


of ‘ 
D ,. 
boy 


Well, that is true.* There are many causes for it. As I repeatedly said, we are not trying to 
hide anything. We do not want to run away from the shortcomings of the Government. They 
are there; there have been shortcomings in implementation; we all know there have been, but 
it does not help to keep on underlining the shortcomings and ignoring the achievements. All 
that I say is, let us see the picture in its reality; it is not that the situation is not grim today. 
The statements made by the Deputy Prime Minister and the Food Minister have very clearly 
outlined how critical and grim the situation is, and what a tremendous national effort will be 
needed in order to face it and to overcome it. Therefore, we must all get together to create the 
national will to face this kind of problem. (/nterruption). As I said, we are not running away 
from the fact that we might have made mistakes, but the situation is also caused by many, 
many happenings and events which were beyond our control, such as the invasion on our 
borders, the increase in defence expenditure, which naturally had to follow, and other problems 
which I have already mentioned. 


National problems require a national outlook, and a national effort. Many hon. Members 
opposite feel that they have suggested a national government. But if we cannot even get together 
on these problems and form a basis of working on policy, I do not see how a national 
government can function in the present circumstances. It is for hon. Members opposite and 
all the different parties to show that they are willing to tackle these problems on a national 


basIs.... 


2K 2K 2k ate a4 fc afc akc अर 


and to find at least what is the minimum common factor which could straightaway be 
implemented....Our primary task is that of economic growth and of the rapid transformation 
of our economy. And it is a tremendous task to transform this great and ancient country in 
keeping with the hopes of the new generation. We are deeply concerned with the difficulties 
of the masses of our people and the question of inequality. This question has come up and 
rightly, many times in this House and it is a question to which we must give deep thought and 
try to solve. Because, no matter what we have achieved, it loses its importance if the benefits 
of it do not go to the masses of our people and if there are many amongst our people who still 
remain and feel underprivileged. This is our major and first duty today to see how we can 
minimise this inequality and help those people who are most in need of our help. 


Iam fully conscious of the rights of the minorities. We must also pay the greatest and 
speedy attention to all their nght demands. 


One hon. Member said that the essence of democracy is debate. I entirely agree with him. 
This 1s so, but it also means getting the job done. Now we spend a great deal of time on debate. 
Very often this clarifies many issues. I am not at all against debate, but I think we must at 
least give the same effort and cooperation in getting the job done. If we can work out this 
problem, then of course the debates would also Have more point. As it is, in a debate many 
points are expressed. But most people go था different directions and the net result of it is not 


the kind of action that can have meaning for the people. 


* Agreeing with Shri S.M. Banerjee who said, “Rising prices also”. 


BREE ROT EN ete Ras g ne i 22% oo 22222 as 3 = Ee eS eee Sa S 


a! 
at ioe 


Cees 
2000:5:22:: 
ease 


27 


In the President’s Address, it was not possible to outline more clearly certain aspects of 
policy. That will be clearer in the next session. But certainly the Address gave some idea of 
what is to be done immediately. These we must take up as national problems and see that we 
solve them. We must see that the extremely difficult period through which we are passing, is 
not without courage and that whatever unity can be is brought about so that we are cleared of 
it. Although the situation is grim, our people do have the courage and the capacity to meet it. 
It is up to us to help them to do so. My plea to the hon. Members 1s that they should commend 


the President’s Address to the people, that through what it has outlined we should be able to 
take at least one step forward in the right direction. 


Le oe et 
Be Te a. 


seen 
1222 2 222 ४ ee ie 


Se es 


sa 


Se 
Sa es 


‘a 
oS 


BAS UREN eT IN 
Oe 2700 72008 
oe ees 


eS NANI 
Ce 
RN 


The Challenges Ahead“ 


Mr. Vice-Chairman, the purpose of the President’s Address is to present a broad picture 
of the state of the nation and to give some indication of the Government’s policies so as 
to enable the House to evaluate the working of the Government’s programmes. It gives us 
valuable opportunity to know the views of hon. Members on the whole. Especially in this 
House, the debate has been of a high level. Sometimes hon. Members seem to stray to 
what seem to us to be points of lesser importance and therefore they take away somewhat 
from the seriousness of the debate. 


Now the Address seeks to present the Government’s point of view freely and frankly 
and Covers some important aspects of our national life. On the economic front the President 
has referred to what he has called milestones on the road to our economic recovery. 


2fe मैप 2k 3 2 मैद ic 3 ok 


Mr. Vice-Chairman, although I was not in the House I would like to inform 
Mr. Bhupesh Gupta that I did hear his speech. not the whole of it but most of it, in my 
office room. So we are fully aware of his views on the various matters which he expressed 
here, and I would be grateful if he would now allow me to go on with my thoughts, though 
he may not be in agreement with them just as we are not in full agreement with what he 
has said. 


2 ak ak OK He मंद मंद 


There has been a decisive upward turn गा our agriculture; there has been recovery in a 
large segment of our industry and there has been relative price stability and striking 
improvement in the balance of payments. I think this is a specific indication of the concrete 
picture of these critical sectors. What the President dealt with were facts; it was not guess- 
work. The President pointed out that the agricultural production of 95.6 million tonnes 
last year was 6 million tonnes higher than the previous peak of 1964-65. My hon. friend 
Opposite, Shri Lokanath Misra, ascribed this achievement in agriculture wholly to 
favourable monsoons. Now, nobody will deny that monsoons are very relevant to 
agricultural production. I think one other Member—I think it was an hon. Member from 
the Communist bencher—also talked of purely fortuitous circumstances. He used a rather 
peculiar word and said that the President “gloats” over the havoc caused by floods. This 
is completely and obviously untrue. The President referred to the grave damage caused 


* Replying to the debate on the Motion of Thanks on the President's Address, R.S. Deb., 25 February, 1969. 
cc. 1375-89. 


८2202. का, 35000 22%:8:%% 5 SOS Ne 728 2222: 


wa 

> me a8 2८२ 
5 . eS 22222 Me eer 234 Pascitater arin ola 

५६४४५ 222: 0.23 150220:000 ८2 2 PRE Le ea 

22207 72:%0९८४%:2//007::2:85:/ Bina LOS EES 42222 २४९ ee eet 


uta =p *००५८००१००० 
eee 22052: 
ene 
423 


Pn 
“ 


tase हे 
Sees 20222 
PR A Sree 02: 


ae ee 
oP 


NS 
on 
4001 


EE OE 
Ne penne 


Se 
la 

5 
5 


by the floeds and drought which I had occasion to see myself when I went to West Bengal 
Bihar and other places. In regard to the monsoon, we all know that we could not have 
achieved this increase of 6 million tonnes, as the hon. Member Shn Musafir nightly pointed 
out, only because of favourable monsoon because there has been an increase over the 
previous peak production. I do not want to go into the details of this because I have spoken 
on this matter earlier and have expressed not only my gratitude but my admiration for the 
peasants and farmers of India who have taken to these new methods and who have toiled 
very hard indeed in order to increase agricultural production. 


With regard to exports they have registered a striking improvement and there has been 
an increase both in quantum as well as in diversification. 


Again, this is not a question of guess-work, but of hard facts. The process of industrial 
recovery has begun and the President gave some specific figures in this regard. He talked 
of prices also in similar specific terms. He spoke of the very great importance which we 
attach to irrigation. We are all aware of the urgent need to review our irrigation programmes 
and the growing needs of the people in the light of the changes which are taking place in 
our rural areas. 


Since the President’s speech, the Economic Survey has been placed before the House 
and a detailed survey of our achievements, as well as our programmes, will soon take place, 
once we discuss the grants Ministry by Ministry. The point is what are the vital problems 
which affect our national life and what are the instruments which we are going to adopt to 
solve these problems. The problem of unemployment is very much before us. So 1s the 
problem of regional imbalance, of disparities, of balance of trade and of the uplift of the 
underprivileged sections of our people. For all these problems, our answer is an integrated 
and comprehensive Plan. Our national Plan reflects the desire of the nation to tackle all 
these specific problems, not only on a broad front, but on a long-term basis. 


Many Members have referred to unemployment and there are also certain amendments 
which relate to this very important matter. The hon. Member, Shri Mohan Dharia drew 
attention to it and also Shri D.L. Sen Gupta. My hon. friend opposite, Shri Mulka Govinda 
Reddy, did so also, though I must say that I do not share his gloomy forecast about the 
youth of our country. This problem is an economic problem. It is also a human problem 
and no Government can possibly be insensitive to it, nor ignore it in any way. Indeed, it 1s 
this concern which led the Planning Commission to constitute a Committee of Experts on 
Unemployment Estimates in August last year. The Committee consists of eminent persons. 
Perhaps the House knows that Prof. M.H. Dantwala is its Chairman. Prof. K.N. Raj and 
Prof. B.D. Lahiri are its members. The Committee has been asked to go into the estimates 
of unemployment which were worked out for the previous Plans, to examine the data and 
methodology used in arriving at the estimates and to advise the Planning Commission on 
the various issues connected with the problem of unemployment. In a country such as ours 
there are obvious difficulties in making precise and quantitative estimates. We hope that 
the Committee will present its report very soon, during this year. Both as regards disparities 
and unemployment, the measures must be short-term as well as long-term. The engineers’ 
unemployment can be solved as the Plan tempo picks up again, but several Plans will be 


ee SAGO RRO 


ee 


21656 
Cae ०» 


शक ate hae states tata a te 


Perec ee ee ano Pe ».० >छ., NN 


required before the rural unemployment problem can be finally solved. It is not that 
importance is not given to these matters but the mere size of the problem is such that it 
must take time before a satisfactory solution can be reached. 


Similarly, various steps are being taken to tackle the question of regional imbalances, 
whether within one State or between one State and another. The Planning Commission 
has asked the States to identify specially backward areas in each State and all except one 
have done so. I hope the State which remains will also quickly send its planned suggestions. 
But the whole point of national development is that gradually these benefits must percolate 
to all our regions. We all know that at one time vast areas of Rajasthan had no knowledge 
at all of and had no irrigation at all, but we now have projects which are transforming the 
face of these areas. Similarly, irrigation has to extend to other parts of Rajasthan, to other 
areas which have special difficulties such as Telengana, Rayalaseema, the arid parts of 
North Mysore, as well as many other parts of the country. 


The problem which has often exercised our minds here in the House and certainly that 
of the Government and all those who are concerned with the welfare of the country is the 
problem of the speedy uplift of our Hanyan and tribal brothers and sisters. The hon. Member, 
Shri Gaikwad, referred to it and so did other Members. Of all problems perhaps, I think, 
this is the one which causes me the greatest concern because, as I have said many times 
in public and perhaps here in the House also, while all the citizens are equal, those who 
arc specially weak or who have had to suffer special disabilities must now get special care, 
so that they can catch up with the rest of the society. Although, in a way, the whole of 
India 1s underprivileged, when you compare it with many other countries, within itself there 
is no doubt that there are sections of the population which have suffered special disabilities 
not only physical, but also because of the attitude of society towards them. And so their 
welfare and speedy uplift is a matter of urgent concern. It is a sacred obligation which has 
been bequeathed to us by Gandhiji. The Congress has a long record of service to them. 
We are fully aware that although much has been done, very much more still remains to be 
done, especially in the economic sphere. Even though there are new programmes, we are 


not able to keep up with their rising expectations. 


Education, as the House is aware, has expanded tremendoulsy. So has opportunity. I 
um only too conscious of the vastness of the problem and that what is being done, about 
providing opportunity, does not match the numbers with which we have to deal. 


It is a matter of great distress, even of horror, that the sort of incidents which have 
taken place in Tanjore and in some other parts of the country should have occurred. We 
have all been filled with deep sorrow and shame that this should happen in our country. 
The most reprehensible acts have been committed in these places and in certain other parts 
of the country and I do not think there are words strong enough to condemn these acts of 
violence and brutality. But I would plead with the hon. Members of the House not to treat 
this as a party issue. It is a national issue. It is not that I am laying aside governmental 
responsibility with regard to-economic programmes. That 1s there. But alongside with it, 
there is the social problem, the question of the attitudes of neighbours and this is not 
something which the Government can deal with. This is something that can be dealt with २ 


"ean ata nea Re De Ce ०००१० ७००० ००.० ०००५ ०७ ०० ES A 
as ratptesatetare’ ots : 
ENC RER ot a 


by pelitical parties, by non-political people, by the entire country reacting to this question 
and taking it upon itself. 1 would say even as a nation-wide movement, not to condemn 
not to apportion blame, but to find out how we can change these social attitudes 


Legal steps may be necessary. Some have been taken such as the Untouchability Act, 
but some social! monsters are hard to die and they have to be relentlessly pursued with all 
the combined strength of the Government, at the Centre, and at the States and of Society 
at large. At the same time, we must realise that none of these problems is susceptible to 
any dramatic or magic solutions. Solutions can only be long-term solutions which need 
determination and patience and which lie within the overall development of the national 


economy. 


Some Members, I believe, mentioned that the President had not made a firm 
commitment about the Fourth Five Year Plan. I think he has made a very specific 
commitment; the document itself is at this moment under finalisation. As Members know, 
the Plan is finally adopted by the N.D.C. so that it is accepted formally by the Centre as 
well as by the State Governments. The N.D.C. meeting is being held, I believe, in the middle 
of next month. It is difficult to give a reply on this question to the Swatantra Party because 
they have from the beginning been against the whole process of planning. My hon. friend 
opposite said that he thought that the Planning Commission was the “‘Impediment to all 
national progress”. I have some inkling of what his party would like us to do, but I am 
extremely doubtful as to whether not only our party, but many of the other parties 
represented here would like us to oblige him in following his path in this matter. In this 
question there really does not seem to be any meeting ground. 


The other question which was raised and which comes up constantly for comment is 
that of monopolies. The proof of our concern in this matter is the Monopolies Bill and the 
high power Dutt Committee which has beeri formed. There is also a Committee set up to 
९0 into the whole question of licensing. It is true that the bigger companies by virtue of 
better managerial ability, resources and technical competence do take more advantage of 
facilities. We have found that this takes place even at lower levels with regard to the farmer 
and others, and the person who has certain facilities is able to take greater advantage of 
any programmes that are drawn up. We have constantly to see that the others arc not left 
out of the programme and that they are also helped to make the most of these programmes. 
Shr Balachandra Menon, I believe, pointed out rightly that all the benefits of our new 
agricultural strategy have not gone to the poorer peasants. But even so—: cannot talk for 
the whole country but in many parts—even those who are poor have derived some benefit. 
But we must strive harder to help them especially those who are landless because they are 
one section of the people who face the hardest situation. Some amendments refer to the 
possibility of growth of new disparities among peasants. These are problems which do 
require corrective measures. But none of these specific problems which confront us today, 
whether it is employment or whether it is regional imbalance, is peculiar just to our country. 
They do today confront nearly all countries in one form or another. 


I believe Shn Lokanath Misra commented on our complacency. I would like to assure 
him that we are far from complacent. While we do not believe in discouraging people by 


2222: 72222 रा Settee 22:27: Ve , 
Lo 2222: Ringe 22222 22: ८ 
22 A ५४ हर ; 12८ OG i 


teats BOs 


९, 
oe ” 


72४ xe 


"are 
me 
ae 


rats 120 a4 


SITTERS 
20०१४: नल 


apes 
20220 ५९ 
Care 323 


5: 


SES 22% 
ot ४777: 
ERS 22222 


oe 
PONG RN 


a 202 


oa 
a 


= 
SS 
Se 


constantly saying that nothing is being done, we are fully aware of the vastness of the 
task ahead, and in fact I think the President himself said there was no room for 
complacency; neither for complacency nor for rest. Today the scope is only for unrelenting 
hard work. We have a very long way to go to offset the effect of the past couple of years 
of difficulties. The suggestions made by hon. Members are welcome and we are always 
prepared to take counsel. 


Several amendments concerned the Shiv Sena. Here again in some ways it is a 
Maharashtrian problem, but it is a problem which stretches across the country. The Shiv 
Sena has not only displayed attitudes but has acted in a manner which is dangerous to the 
unity of the country and to the prosperity of the country. It was only natural that this debate 
should concern itself with the regrettable events in Bombay, in Andhra Pradesh and 
elsewhere, because the news that came from these parts filled us with deep shock and 
disquiet. As I said the other day, this is a matter in which we must all cooperate together 
to see that the ways of violence are not taken for the redress of any real or imaginary 
grievances. One point which we must all accept, regardless of what party or what part of 
the country we belong to, is that every Indian citizen must have the nght to live and to 
work वा any part of India where he may wish to do. It is not a partisan issue; it is one 
which calls for an all-party constructive endeavour. This is something, I do not know by 
what word to call it, whether we can say it is a monster, which has to be resolutely fought 
in each State, in each community, within each party and 1 would also say within each 
individual; I must confess that no party is free from this. Although the Congress has fought 
against such attitudes, we cannot say that we are entirely free from them. This is a fight 
which must be continued. As I said, we must all work together 1n this fight if we have the 
welfare of our people at heart. The State Government took prompt and effective action. 
Police action was also taken when necessary and will be taken wherever it 1s necessary. 
But again here it is a question of social attitudes because on such issues the local people 
so quickly become emotional that a difficult situation is created in no time at all although 
by the time this escalation happens all parties would like to disclaim a hand in it. But the 
point is that we must all join before such things happen, to see that such parochial, 
communal, narrow-minded regional feelings do not get an opportunity to be aroused. 


2 ak ak 2 ak ok af oe af 


We saw these happenings sometime ago in Ranchi, we saw these happenings in 
Bombay, in Andhra Pradesh and also in some of our villages where the most ghastly crimes 
have been committed in the name of caste or religion or some other thing. Sometimes there 
are economic reasons behind it, sometimes there is something else. It is a matter which 
can only be tackled constructively, not by trying to find out who 18 to blame but to see 
how they can be prevented in future. 


The President did refer to the National Integration Council. We have called meetings 
of the Standing Committee which, I hope, will go into these matters in detail. Most parties 
are represented on it, but I am sorry that two parties are not. I hope that they also will 
change their minds and join us, because these problems transcend the narrow interests of 
any one party. They concern the nation as a whole. The ultimate solution can only be to 
arouse the social consciousness of the people as a whole. 


Say i Gaia ERNIE डी 


MO ee ta %, 


It was natural and normal perhaps, since we are meeting so soon after the mid-term 
poll, that many Members should be concerned with the results. The elections brought 
varying foxtunes for different parties in different States. Elections always do all over the 
world. I do not think this is a surprising thing. 


अर a मं ak 2k 2 ae मं 


As I said somewhere else, this may be a new experience to some parties because to 
some parties winning is a new experience and to some parties losing is a new experience.... 


ae ie मे a AE ak se a 


I am glad that the hon. Member* is so happy because I do not think his own party has 
‘had any such conspicuous gain. I am glad that he is generous hearted enough to applaud 
the other parties who have won. I also would like to welcome the parties who have won. 
While during elections we certainly try that our Own party might win—and we would 
certainly have liked it to win—it is no use saying that we would not. But we always respect 
the verdict of the electorate, and those people who have won, we welcome them, whether 
it is to Parliament or whether it is to the State Assembly. 


ak Ae और WK ie मर age afc मर 


Therefore, I welcome the new Governments which have come in, whether it be in 
Punjab or West Bengal, to the family of Governments in this country (/nterruptions). 


It is inevitable also that references should be made to Centre-State relations, and several 
amendments, I believe, have been moved. 


2 ak ak ae ak ak af ak ok 


The Centre-State question, as I have said before in this House, is not new. We had 
disagreement even when the Governments were of the same party ruling in the different 
States and we have them today when parties are of different hues in the different States. 
But it is no use getting over-obsessed with the problem. There will be difficulties, and we 
have to try and find a way out. I think it would be wrong to take either a very gloomy 
view of the picture or to try to take an opportunistic view of these relations. Our position 
is very Clear which is that we believe in a policy of cooperation with all these States. We 
have to consider the fact that there are Governments of different policies. Each Government 
obviously cannot go entirely its way. It is not that we are blocking it in any way or trying 
to obstruct it. But every Government must first consider how the whole country can keep 
together and united and then only think of its own particular area. 


I have seen references saying that the demands of a particular State must be met. 
Certainly they must be met. But what is the impediment in meeting them ? It is not that 
we do not want to meet the demand, it is that we are all suffering from the same difficulty, 


* Responding to Shri Bhupesh Gupta’s observation, 1 did not expect you to make this smudged utterance. But may 
your experience of losing live long and may our experience of winning gain”. 


Nie hier atace otnscectovesnssserasen ache omt pret anptocse Soserareseraparer पर राम घटकर उप ब कप पा पपयरण अब watetee 
STS caress inne sresabetatatatatatotesntet std oatotatate aetanuane tata 
28 


Sauna 20757 


SEPT IA MET te 77८५ ee tae wines 


= op et ee eo व ट5. 


that 1s lack of sufficient resources. We have limited resources and we simply cannot close 
our eyes to that fact, so that all States whether their Governments are Congress or non- 
Congress, are all equally dissatisfied. It is not that only a State in which there is a non- 
Congress Government or a United Front Government feels that it is being discriminated 
against, because there is no discrimination. But it is a fact that we are unable to meet all 
their demands for the very simple reason that we just do not have the resources with which 
to do so. But we do believe in equal and equitable treatment towards all the States, and 
we believe that there is a large field which calls for active and constant cooperation. 


When I said that we accept the verdict of the people, it was not at all a formal statement, 
I really meant it. I really want to extend the hand of cooperation and friendship. And I 
hope that these Governments will go ahead and take up the basic task and be conscious, 
be fully aware, of the constraint of resources which applies to us no less than it applies to 
them. Neither the Centre nor the States have unlimited resources. 


I would not say that Centre-State relations are deteriorating. I did not hear the speech 
but.I believe that one member from the DMK said so. I must confess that my own 
impression was quite contrary because our relations with Tamil Nadu were steadily 
improving and I said this in my tribute to Shri Annadurai in Madras and also in the other 
House. 


Shri Mulka Govinda Reddy and other members have suggested for a Centre-State 
Council. This is a matter which has also been discussed, and the House knows that we 
have purposeful and lively forums for Centre-State consultations. There is the N.D.C., there 
is the Chief Ministers’ Conference, there are the Zonal Councils and there are numerous 
functional conferences and committees of Ministers. Some have done good work. So, there 
is no dearth of forums, and I do not think that there is any need felt for a new one. In the 
present circumstances any very rigid forum will not serve the purpose. In fact, if many 
new rules are laid down like this, we may well be in difficulties. It is not any mechanism 
by itself which creates goodwill. Goodwill and better relations can only come about by 
the behaviour of the people concerned. And given the goodwill and given the clear 
understanding the cooperation is a two-way affair, I do not think that there should be any 
occasion for friction. 


When we have this frank and constructive discussion at political and official levels, it 
1s possible to remove misunderstandings and to reach agreement. The difficulty really arises 
because it is not possible to solve all problems magically. Some hon. Members from the 
Opposition Benches seemed to have felt that it was possible to have some magic solutions. 
When they come into the Governments and when they have to face the people, they find 
that they are facing the same difficulties as we have been facing. So, it is very easy for 
them to throw the blame on the Centre. When they speak to us, they adopt a reasonable 
attitude. But then you find that there is some public statement which is not worded quite 
in the same way. 


There is the agreement on the basis of Central assistance to the States. Now it is 
unanimous as between the Chief Ministers drawn from the different Parties. And it is, as 


120 mapas BDO RN 
Re ane 


Sy 
| 
फट 


you know, madam a highly sensitive and knotty question. Similarly, we have some 
understanding regarding the principle on grants and loans to the States. 


Some Members have blamed the Centre for not laying down some immediate criteria 
for solving the various disputes. There are water disputes, or boundary disputes. I did not 
want to refer to them here. One hon. Member, perhaps Shri Akbar Ali Khan, suggested 
that the Opposition parties should get together to solve them. It is a good suggestion. Now 
this is our difficulty that for none of these problems is there a hard and fast solution. It is 
not a question merely of taking a decision and implementing it. You have to try and take 
the largest number of people with you. You have to try to diminish the area of friction and 
conflict because in all these States, no matter what the solution is, you have to continue to 
live with your neighbours. And the more friction there 1s in the solution, that friction will 
spill over and will remain over the years. Therefore, it is not only enough to decide what 
is the right solution but also to get that solution accepted by the people concerned. 
Otherwise, especially as the political parties do not cooperate, even though it may be a 
good and just solution, you open, you keep the loopholes for further friction alive. The 
key to any harmonious solution lies in agreement amongst the States, and not in any 
imposition from above. And that has been our desire and our effort to bring about some 
kind of an agreement. Or some of these issues-hon. Members are aware—there is 
sometimes no accord even within the same party. The parties get divided on these regional 
and other issues and every party gets divided. Now if we could solve the problem amongst 
ourselves, if each party could solve it, then the whole question would be solved in no time 
at all. Even here in the two Houses we have found that while one Member has stated one 
point of view here, another Member of the same party has pressed another point of view 
in the other House. So we have to look at these matters from the long-term point of view. 
In the same way, sometimes if a person is Chief Minister of a State, he wants to go all out 
to get more powers for the State. Now knowing the policies of some of these Governments, 
we know that had they been at all connected with the Centre, they would have gone all 
out for far greater powers for the Centre. 


Reference was also made to our foreign policy and I believe certain rather unfair and 
unwarranted allegations were made about our being in one particular camp and so on. This 
I would like to deny most strongly. India has stood for taking an independent view on all 
matters. The broad elements of our policy were indicated by the President, namely, that 
we stand for international peace and cooperation, we stand for the reduction of tension in 
areas which still have conflict and tension, and we believe in building understanding with 
the other peoples of the world. 


There was some talk here, I believe the hon. Member, Shri Chagla, spoke of the dangers 
to our system. His concern arises from a genuine interest in the stability of our system. 
But I feel that he is taking too pessimistic a view. We have had these gloomy forecasts 
time and again about elections, about one thing or another. But the people have belied 
them. It is not that everything is all right. The people do get excited, people do wrong 
things. But by and large, I think our democracy is becoming more mature and people are 
finding their feet. And I would not be over-obsessed with this concept of instability. I would 
appeal to the House not to underestimate the vitality and the resilience of our people and 


we eS, 
A 


our system and their capacity to absorb the tumults of change. Obviously there are new 
trends. Not only are there new trends in our country, but there are new trends in the entire 
world. But I think that our system has displayed its strength and I feel that the people of 
India—they may make experiments, they may make mistakes—are aware of their basic rights 
and I think that they will see that the rights, that democracy gives them and our system 
gives them, will always be preserved. I do not think that if some little thing is going wrong 
at this moment, we should immediately try to escape into finding another system because 
that system will not have fewer problems. It might have different types of problems, but 
the number of problems will not be less; it may well be more. These are all questions in 
which whatever our differing views on economic matters or other matters may be, we 
should atleast isolate certain matters which are of national concern and work together for 
their solution. I certainly hope that in this session of Parliament we will get this co operation 
and we will be able to get together on many of these things. I would like to thank the hon. 
Members for the valuable contribution which they made... 


2 2K मर मंद 2c ak ae के ak 


and I hope that the Members who have put in amendments will withdraw them. Thank 
you. 


37 


A Synoptic View of Government Policies* 


Mr. Speaker Sir, in our method of parliamentary working, this debate is the annual 
‘occasion to discuss the entire field of Government’s organised activities as outlined in the 
President’s Address. Some of the significant and important points have already been 
discussed at considerable length in the debate on the motion of no-confidence, which we 
had just a few days ago. History may not repeat itself, but historians do and so do 
parliamentarians. So, some of the points which I am going to mention will naturally not 
be nobel, because the problems are the same and party attitudes are also the same. 


This time, the number of amendments is even more than the total membership of the 
House and therefore, it will obviously not be possible to deal with them all. 


मं kK eke ak मंद मे: मर 


The major points which dominated the discussion naturally concern themselves with 
the improvements in agriculture and industry. I spoke on this only a few days ago and ina 
few days, my colleague, the Deputy Prime Minister, will indicate the steps which have 
been taken and which contributed to the arresting of the price spiral. The progress in the 
agricultural field has been striking. 1 do not know if the hon. Members can deny the 
improvement during 1967-68, which raised the national income by 9.1 per cent over the 
previous year. The index of industrial production for the first nine months of 1968 stands 
at 159.3, which 1s 5.6 per cent higher than the figure for the same period in 1967. 


kK 4 2k Heo 


Surely our balance of payments is better than it was last year. Our exports have gone 
up and our imports have come down. This is not a guess-work. It is a question of facts. 
My hon. friend opposite just now spoke of Indra Bhagvan. I believe yesterday also some 
hon. Member said so. Nobody is denying that a good monsoon has made a world of 
difference. At the same time, we cannot deny that there was a very serious drought before 
that and that this drought had very wide repercussions in all spheres of national life, in 
agriculture as well as in industry. There is no doubt that the good monsoon has helped, 
but Government was responsible, as the hon. Member Shri Mahadeva Prasad remarked, 
for the new agricultural strategy, and it was the impact of those new programmes which 
enabled many of our farmers to take full advantage of the rains. The agricultural production 
did go over even the peak reached earlier when the rains were normal. As I have said on 


* Replying to the debate on the Motion of Thanks on the President's Address, L.S. Deb., 26 February, 1969, 
cc. 139-53. 


previous occasions, it was the will and hard work of the Indian peasants which enabled 
them to reap this rich harvest and it would not be fair to ignore their contribution to It. 


He मर भर ake ak मर ae ak ok 


Certainly I am glad the hon. Member has reminded me”. I have not forgotten them. 
On previous occasions I have mentioned that it was the hard work, the perseverance, the 
imagination of our scientists and our engineers and the others involved 1n the various 
institutes, in extension work and so on which made this possible. 


No body claims that there are not some areas of concern. Many hon. Members yesterday 
said that the President had painted a very rosy picture. But if you read the Address carefully, 
you will find that he has drawn attention to the areas of concern or the areas where we are 
not satisfied with development or which pose very serious problems. 


The President did point out that the demand for the products of some industries in the 
machine building sector, for instance, continues to be inadequate as compared to capacity. 
We fully realise this and I think my colleagues who are concerned with these ministries 
have also drawn attention to the fact that there is considerable scope for improvement in 
management and other matters concerning both public and private enterprises. None of 
this is denied or sought to be hidden or glossed over in any way. Continuous efforts are 
being made to reassess, to review and to improve the situation. 


As hon. Members know, agriculture has been accorded top priority in our Plan and 
there is consensus on the need for extending irrigation to many parts of the country. Mention 
has been made of Rayasthan, of Telengana, of Rayalaseema and so on. There are other 
areas in north-Mysore, in Uttar Pradesh, in Bihar. Practically in every State there are areas 
which are in need of irrigation. A high-power commission will go into the needs and 
programmes in the light of the development which has been taking place in the past years. 


Many times onc hears that although it is twenty years since we are free, people are 
still poor, poverty is still there. Obviously, Sir, there is poverty. I do not know how anybody 
could have imagined that poverty could possibly be wiped out in a period of twenty years 
(Interruptions). No country of this size and population with the problems which we faced 
has done this (/nterruptions). As I have said on a previous occasion, the situation has 
improved in some respects and in other respects because of increase in population and 
other problems and difficulties remain. 


We are certainly not fully self-sufficient yet. Some hon. Member said that we claim to 
be self-sufficient and yet we are importing. We do not claim to be fully self-sufficient but 
we do claim that we are going towards self-sufficiency, and while we are nearer to self- 
sufficiency in wheat, we have some way to go with regard to rice (Jnterruptions). I am 
not yielding at all. Mention was also made with regard to dry farming. We are duly 
conscious of the areas which are still not covered by irrigation and progressive steps are 
being taken to extend to them various agricultural practices. New varieties of seeds and 


* Responding to Shn S. Kundu’s remark, “Also our engineers and scientists were responsible”. 


e . ae 777: 5:22 29:6 AEA NI UE पी RCE Cee 
” va | ४० 222 oe Sei peut on है % अं करच९ ‘ 
eNOS oS oes Neo es icc 22280 2) 
’, ‘4 22247 रा O 


RRR © 
‘ 524 
कक 


| SHAR An MCL at गो I eR ah . 
SLL BAS atte te Rare wage SORENTO 


other forms of more intensified cultivation in dry areas are under way and research work 
en varieties of seeds suitable for dry areas is in progress. 


There is also the question of flood control. I am told the total area liable to floods is 
estimated at 16 million hectares. 


The average annual area affected by floods from 1953 to 1967 was 6 million hectares, 
of which the area under crops, was about 2 million hectares. At the end of the Third Plan 
over 7,000 kilometres of new embankments have been constructed, over 8,700 kilometres 
of drainage channels have been constructed, 164 town protection schemes were completed 
and over 4,500 villages were raised above flood level. As a result, nearly 5.2 million 
hectares of land which was usually subjected to flood damage has been given reasonable 
protection and during the past three years another one million hectares have been covered 
under the programme, making a total of 6.2 million hectares. 


The question of land reforms has come up here many times. There is legislation for 
the abolition of intermediaries, for ceiling on holdings, security of tenure and consolidation 
of holdings in most of the States. However, we are deeply aware of the need for a 
comprehensive look at the whole problem and the need for land reforms and I do sincerely 
hope that every State will consider this matter. 


As I said, we have been plagued by flood and drought simultaneously in one part of 
the country or another. These severe and serious problems have received prompt attention 
of the Government and help has been given in whatever way possible. I believe a statement 
has been laid on the Table on the drought situation in various States and the steps taken to 
tackle 1. 


For West Bengal a total assistance of Rs. 23.73 crores has been sanctioned of which 
Rs. 17.50 crores has already been released; as the assistance is utilized more is provided. 
Similarly, for Rajasthan Rs. 8.96 crores has already been agreed to by Central team. Then 
another team of experts is likely to visit the State next month to re-assess the situation 
and to make further recommendations of the needs. 


In this period the railways have provided various concessions and facilities and have 
done a tremendous job in moving food and fodder. Even today, under various programmes, 
about 1.25 lakhs of persons, mostly children, expectant mothers and others are being fed 
daily and this number is expected to rise to 2.5 lakhs per day. 


Another problem which is one of great concerns to the Government and the people is 
that of unemployment. The Fourth Plan is not an isolated plan; it addresses itself to all 
major national questions. It is only through economic progress that we can solve the 
unemployment question, which is faced even by the advanced countries today. Naturally, 
we have special problems because of the vast size and the rapidly growing population of 
our country. 


40K ete मं ne 2 मं 


The Planning Commission, as the hon. Members know, has appointed an expert 
committee which will make recommendations on the various aspects regarding 


Se AEC ee ee ee 
नष्ट ee eee 5 ४ 


fod, 


22220 22727: 77022 ea 


४७ 
am, 


re 


als 


re agree ea Otte APA Te LTS 
ce टू + 2222: 22 D <a 


employment, unemployment and under-employment, both in the rural and urban areas, as 
also on the methods of estimating the labour force and employment potential. The report 
is expected by the middle of this year. This problem must be tackled both from short-term 
point of view as well as long-term point of view, because the addition to the labour force 
is faster than the growth of work opportunities. 


Employment in the organised sector increased from 12.1 million at the end of 1960- 
61 to 16.2 million at the end of 1965-66. It is a rise of about 34 per cent and an annual 
average growth rate of 6.8 per cent in the Third Plan period. 


In various sectors, growth in the percentage of employment went up appreciably. In 
trade and commerce, it went up by 112 per cent between 1961 and 1968; in power and 
supplies it went up by 53.8 per cent; in the manufacturing sector it went up by 31 per 
cent; in agriculture and related sectors it went up by 29.4 per cent. In the public sector 
alone employment rose from 5.2 million in 1956 to nearly twice that figure, that is, to 9.8 
million last year. But no one denies the problem. And some aspects of it, such as the 
problem of the educated unemployed, specially of engineers, is causing us immediate and 
grave concern. 


Whether one takes the question of unemployment or the equally important problem of 
regional disparities, disparities between one State and another or within a State, to which 
some hon. Members have referred, the answer lies in the approach of an integrated, 
comprehensive plan for the speediest possible growth of the economy as a whole. 


The other day an hon. Member talked of the problem of literacy. I believe that an 
amendment has also been moved on this subject. This is an important problem and we 
attach importance to this. We also realise that a great deal has to be done and that much 
ground still remains to be covered. But it would not be fair to overlook what has been 
achieved in this field. 


The number of literates in the country has nearly doubled in the first decade of planned 
development, rising from 55.3 million to 106 million. The most significant fact, however, 
was that the low percentage of 16.6 per cent rose to 24 per cent during this period, in 
spite of the colossal increase in population. More recent projections suggest that the current 
percentage is around 30 and figure of literates is 152 million or so. | 


af af of मंद मद ak ae ate ak 


I think, our people had the basic wisdom but now it is a question of the actual 
knowledge of certain matters. Whether you go into the villages or anywhere else you see 
the change and even people who are not able to read and write are very much aware not 
only of their problems but also of their needs and what should be done; also, when they 
are helped, how to use that help. Their whole attitude of resignation, apathy, helplessness 
is changing. 


41 


It is certainly to the credit of the people and I am saying so*. 


The question of Harijans, Tribals and other underprivileged people is a matter which 
is constantly before us. It is also a very serious problem. Government is certainly not 
indifferent. We have had numerous debates on this matter. Much has been done in the past 
years. Very concentrated effort and programmes are being undertaken to see how this 
situation can be improved. 


mie oh मर me aK ac aie Ke ae 


The welfare of all these people is not only an article of faith for us but also an imperative 
‘necessity for the development and progress of the country. A considerable amount of work 
has been done but it is nothing as compared to what remains to be done. In many ways 
the people who indulge in some of the atrocities which have taken place or the attitudes 
of mind which they display are similar to the race problem which we see in other places. 
There is a feeling that some people are superior or some people are inferior. We all know 
there is no such thing as a backward caste and that if any group has been backward, it is 
only because it has not had the opportunity of education or other knowledge and training 
which could help it to go ahead. 


The recent attacks upon the Harijans wherever they may have taken place are a blot 
on the whole nation. Constitutional safeguards do exist. But we have not been able to 
change the hearts or the mental attitudes of many of our citizens. This is where we must 
all join in creating the right sort of social climate. 


We have already debated the question of the Shiv Sena. All groups have condemned 
such acts, such attitude and such bodies in the strongest possible terms. 


ae fe ok 1 aK मै 2 मं a 


Government action alone in this is no solution. All parties must join together and put 
an end to the activities of such organisations which can only result in disrupting national 
unity and creating hatred and bitterness between one Indian and another. 


We all listen to Acharyaji with great respect. He talked of law and order. Of course, it 
is Government’s responsibility and Government cannot evade that responsibility. But all 
these are not merely law and order problems. People do get emotionally involved in issues 
and emotions cannot always be subdued by a big stick. That is why all responsible persons 
must come to the conclusion that no matter how strongly they feel on any specific issue, 
they shall not indulge in violence, they shall not allow other people to indulge in violence 
specially, people with whom they may be allied on other fronts. 


Acharyaji has also taken exception to the word emotional integration. I am not at all 
attached to this word. Provided that all feel and act as Indians and are willing to co-exist 


* Responding to Shri S. Kundu's remark, “It goes to the credit of the people and not of the Government”. 


22222722/22:6677:::77:7 
22272 ae: 
ones 
PR op Se fy 


7 
SEER 


52200: 

जार 

Sees 
= 


10222 
eS 
Be 
272200227% 


cet 
SS. 


Y sae 2 गो बी 
एप्प meee 


222 a 
i 
2:22 fe पर 


and be good neighbours to other Indians regardless of different faiths, different languages, 
different customs, it does not matter what words are used to describe our integration, or 
even if you want to change that word integration. 


My hon. friend, Prof. Ranga referred to the Integration Council. We cannot always 
agree on all points and, indeed, we differ very much with his party on many points. 


ae मं: ak ek ae ae मै! 


Nor can we expect quick results from such a Council. But, I think it was remarkable 
that so many different parties could sit together and agree even on some points. I know 
that immediately we did not achieve the result which we would have wished for. But this 
does not mean we can give up. We must find the solutions. I hope Prof. Ranga’s party and 
the S.S.P. will reconsider their attitude, because their staying away does not help and, if 
their voice is also heard, may be, it would be a little easier to implement our decisions 
and to take along more of the people with us on these issues. 


Several hon. Members have referred to inter-State questions, river and border disputes. 
The M.Ps of various parties who represent Andhra Pradesh or who represent Mysore have 
come to me and, on earlier occasions, the M.Ps from Maharashtra and other groups have 
also been to me. It is agreed that the Krishna-Godavari question should be referred to 
arbitration. But some details about jurisdiction, terms of reference and so on are 5011 being 
worked out. 


A reference was also made to another matter, that is, the Maharashtra border dispute. 
This is an economic and political matter which has acquired emotional overtones. I cannot 
say much on this occasion nor would it be right to pre-judge the final outcome here. But, 
as I said earlier, we should emphasize that the matter be approached by all concerned in a 
cool and level-headed manner, in a spirit of cooperation, tolerance and give-and-take. 
Government cannot yield to pressure or ulumatums. We have to help emotions to cool 
down before lasting solutions can be found to such very complex problems. Some steps 
were contemplated soon after the mid-term poll and I had hoped to have talks with the 
two Chief Ministers, but then the events in Bombay intervened. Whatever decision is taken, 
we must be concerned about the possible trail of bitterness which it may leave behind. If 
there is delay or if we are consulting more people, it is merely to try and avoid this trial of 
bitterness and hatred which some of these problems leave behind.... 


fk Ok ae ake अर ae ae 2c 


The basic point is that we must live together. No State can change its geographical 
position and say, ‘I can choose other neighbours’. Since we must live together, we have to 
find a basis on which there can be good neighbourly relations and solutions which will 
help towards creating such a relationship. The key to harmony is not imposition but 
agreement. 


Much was said on the results of the mid-term poll. I have talked on this earlier and 1 
have no intention of saying much about it again. I would like to welcome the Governments 


Re a OK I 252: (२७०८ ४०००7 CN RH NONI GO 0 a co [गगन हनन ०० 
Oy 4 sent SS Oe Tepe aH een 7:25: ies Seth 70:2०... Nae 
2५:52 


ORS ett te ae SESS रद en an Te Satis ०77०० astray ० cpanel anne, Se 
BRR SE RY, s ४: फटर नर फट फ्राददए Perens कट 7८ 


in West Bengal and Punjab. To these States we shall give the fullest consideration and 
cooperation. We must at all times realise that the whole is greater than the part, and that 
the welfare and prosperity of the Indian people and the nation should be the objective of 
all of us, regardless of our party affiliations. I hope that each State Government, regardless 


of what party or parties it may be composed of, keeps in mind that, while it is responsible 


for the governance of one State, that State is only one part of this great country, and it is 
our duty in the Centre as well-as in the States to uphold and foster the unity of the nation 
as well as any special identity of the States. In fact, there is great need that whichever 
State a particular person may be born in-I have said this before, but I would like to say 
again—he should be able to work and to prosper in any other State. All our far-sighted 
educationists have stressed it as important that India should be one intellectual entity just 
as it is One economic common market. This 1s also the underlying reason for having a 
unified judiciary and unified All-India Services. They really represent an apparatus in the 
nature of a joint partnership of the Union and the States, and must be preserved and fostered 
as such.... 


aK मर a aK a मं ae a अर 


We attach... importance to the problems of young people. The younger generation has 
new urges, new demands, here as well as elsewhere in the world. The problem is not merely 
one of jobs or of security or insecurity although that does exist; it is a question of a change 
of outlook. New knowledge, new opportunities, new freedoms, are coming their way. 
Contact with the outside world is also influencing the situation. They have tremendous 
energy—in fact, I would even say, there is an ‘explosion of energy’—and they have a desire 
to forge new paths, they then shall desire to grope towards a future which has meaning 
for them. 


Government are fully aware of these factors, and we want our Ministry of Education 
to give special attention to youth services and to think of follow-up measures. But here 
too there is an area of governmental responsibility but an equally large area for professors, 
for political leaders, for the non-political elite, for parents and for the community at large 
to share the responsibility and to find ways of bridging this generation gap. Just as in some 
of the border and other disputes all parties join on a particular issue, this is something in 
which all of one generation are on one side of the bridge and the younger generation is on 
the other side of the bridge. How to have a better understanding of the problem is something 
that we can work out... 


मंध्मंध्मं ak oe a 2k 4k 


Many amendments have been proposed seeking to draw attention to certain alleged 
failures of foreign policy. I believe that the policy which we have been pursuing during 
the last two decades and more represents a national consensus. Its basic structure has found 
wide acceptance in the country. 


me ak ae 


ee ge RAR SE 


fy 222 # व Leet EG ०० ०7०० wd 


Toit हे अजब SAT POT ES 72: ५ ay SN MS aor 
oe ee थे Baa ee aie, = हू हे 


In the light of changing circumstances in the world, it has served our national 
interests. 


ae 2k me he afc ak मंध् के 


This is perhaps the reason why there is no attempt on the part of the Opposition to 
elaborate upon an alternative structure of principles on which our foreign policy could rest. 
The attack was more by implication than in the nature of a frontal one. There will probably 
be occasions to go into the details of foreign policy during this budget session. However, 
I should like to touch briefly on a subject which is naturally of deep concern to us all. I 
refer to the question of security. On what does our security depend ? 


He मं मे a eof mea मं 


Obviously, no one can defend this huge country with its 500 million people unless the 
people themselves are ready and willing to lay down their lives for the defence of their 
Motherland. Our security, therefore, depends in the first instance, on the patriotism and 
the spirit of self-sacrifice of the people as a whole. 


2 ai ak 2 मंध मं मं और ak 


The validity of this proposition cannot be challenged. No nation can effectively bear 
arms unless its citizens have the spirit to bear arms. The second essential element in our 
security is the industrial and economic strength of the country. Without such strength, we 
will be condemned to live on borrowed strength, and this borrowing can be done 
temporarily but it cannot be a principle of foreign policy. We have seen that military 
alliances had not succeeded in guaranteeing security. Even countries covered by military 
alliances today feel insecure. There 1s a questioning of the principles on which these alliance 
were brought about at the height of the cold war. Each country today realises that it must 
build its own economic strength if it wishes to safeguard its security. This is precisely what 
we have been doing. Finally, our security depends on the strength, the morale, the fighting 
efficiency and the patriotism of our Armed Forces. Let us not be diverted from the prime 
necessity of increasing the fighting efficiency of our conventional Armed Forces. 


This is what we have been endeavouring to do...(Jnterruptions). 


There was reference to nuclear power, especially since it is possessed by one of our 
next door neighbours. Let us not be panicky about it; let us not undermine the growth of 
our economy by diverting resources towards that end....(/mterruptions). 


aK AK अप मं: 9 a Mc afc मं 


I should like to say something about the criticism that this country is isolated and 
forlorn. Some hon. Members seem to take delight in self-humiliation. The fact however 
remains that our country. is held in high regard by the world and we continue to play our 
role in important international organizations and forums. I think it is only those who lack 
confidence either in themselves or in the country indulge in denigrating the country. If we 


are, friendless, it would be interesting to hear from the hon. Members which country they 
conser does have friends. The world situation today is in an extremely fluid state. 


mK Ac ae मर मंद भर mea aK 


It has been, it is more so now. At one time countries had well-defined positions*. Today 
they do not. Today, many of the alliances have blurred and there are many new factors 
which have arisen in all parts of the world. There is friction not only between one State 
and another but also within almost every country. This is true not only of developing 
countries but even of the so-called advanced countries. Therefore, I should ask the movers 
of the various amendments to withdraw them. Many of the amendments emanate from 
the mistaken notion that the President’s Address should refer to each and every act of the 
Government... (Interruptions). It can only deal with the general outlook and the policy of 
the Government. An objective reading of the Address should provide optimism and not 
gloom. I should urge on the critics of the Government to shed their chronic pessimism 
and become constructive participants in working for the continued progress and prosperity 
of our country. I am aware that many gaps have to be filled and many difficulties have to 
be solved. Many challenges have to be met and we have a long way to go. But I am 
comforted by the thought that we are on the night path.... (/nterruptions.) 


KK मर a ak मं aK a > 


My hon. friend would certainly like to see a change in our path and he would like us 
to go along his path**. The hon. fricnds on the other side, of the opposition, would like 
us to change our path and go in an entirely opposite direction.... (mterruptions). The 
question today is this : at a time when in different States there are Governments with entirely 
different points of view, the major question is how all of them can stand together. Whether 
we can find areas of agreement and attempt to increase those areas. We cannot possibly 
agree on all questions. I may agree on one point with Prof. Ranga and on another point 
with another party. Still, we shall obviously have many differences. That is why we are in 
different parties, otherwise there would not be so many parties. There would have been 
just onc party 


HK a 2k मं fo} 


I am; I naturally belong to a party and I am also committed to a particular programme 
and a particular policy***. We shall follow that programme and that policy. We have to 
follow a path, which may not be fully agreeable to hon. Members here or fully agreeable 
to hon. Members there. That by itself shows that one path is trying to take the majority of 
the people along, because it is finding disfavour with those who are at the two extremes. 
This is the only way in which we can go ahead and work hard to solve our many problems 
and bring a better life to our people. Therefore, I hope that the entire House will support 
the Motion of Thanks on the President’s Address. 


* Responding to Shri Ranga’s remark, “Jt has been”. 
** Responding to Shri Nambiar's observation, “You are on a very wrong path, you should change it”. 
*** Replying to Shri Ranga's remark, “She has to be the Prime Minister of a party”. 


Son 
7275०: 
5 


ee te 
2.०२०-०,०,०,०,०३०५०५०,०.० 
neat 
SOS 


z 


22 
2:22: 7:77: 0:77: 7: SRO 


> 
oR 


Economic Growth and Political Evolution* 


Mr. Deputy Chairman, as many hon. Members have remarked, the President’s Address 
this year has been much more than a mere formal address. It is not a mere outline of the 
business before this particular session or during the year. Actually, it is an urgent summons 
to the tasks which await us as we enter one new decade after completing another. In fact, 
it is something even more than this. It marks the transition from one definite stage in our 
economic development and political evolution to the beginning of another. 


Anyone who views modern Indian history with comprehension and a sense of fairness, 
anyone who is at all conversant with the processes of economic development, knows that 
today the country is economically and politically stronger than it was before, and also more 
capable of facing the challenges with which it is confronted. In fact, at no time has there 
been more enthusiasm and greater self-confidence in the people of India, a greater 
expectation of change, and also, I would say, a greater capacity to bring about this change. 


The Leader of the Opposition**, Sir, has used many alliterative adjectives. He has called 
the Address, if I remember his words aright, dull, dry and so on. 


ete ak ae ak ak 2 4 


It is human, Sir, to see the world in one’s own image. The trouble with the Leader of 
the Opposition and his party is, as one hon. Member said just now, that they have ceased 
to listen to the voice of the people. They have ceased to notice the urge and the fervour, 
which is so evident not only to our own countrymen, but also to the many people who 
have been visiting us from countries from all parts of the globe in recent months. But they, 
Sir, have unfortunately fallen out of step and got so far behind that they are under the 
ilJusion that there is no progress at all. The hon. Member, Shri Mishra, has alleged that 
we are, or perhaps I am, obsessed with the idea of toppling State Governments. I presume 
he has in mind Bihar and Uttar Pradesh. Now, Sir, Bihar is his home State. I do not know 
whether he has some grievance against the ending of the Governor’s rule there, because 
that is the only Government that was toppled in Bihar, and if I remember aright, only some 
little while ago I was being urged by some of the same people to end the Governor’s rule 
as soon as possible. Now the other charge on which he spent some considerable time was 
that it was my tours which brought about the fall of the Uttar Pradesh Government. This 
charge, as I have said during those tours and afterwards, is entirely baseless. My visits to 


* Replying to the debate on the Motion of Thanks on the President's Address, R.S. Deb., 2 March, 1970, cc. 244-65. 
** Shri S.N. Mishra. 


47 


the U.P. were undertaken to acquaint myself with the problems of Uttar Pradesh and also 
to-counter-act the accusation made, very loudly and often, there that the Centre and more 
particularly the Prime Minister and also the two preceding Prime Ministers had been 
neglecting it. Now, one cannot simultaneously complain that the Prime Minister 1s 
neglecting U.P. and also that the Prime Minister is giving attention to U.P. You have to 
make up your mind which out of the two you mean. My purpose in going whether to U.P. 
or any other State is to tell the people about the policies of the Government generally and 
especially with regard to that particular State and I did tell the people of U.P. that while it 
is true that the State does not get all that 1t expects from the Centre this happens to be true 
of all other States as well and also with regard to the Central Ministries; not that they do 
not get it from the Centre because they are in the Centre but they do not get all that they 
ask from the Planning Commission or the Finance Ministry. As far as U.P. is concerned 
‘more than half the expense on the development plans of that State has throughout come 
from the Centre. Admittedly this is not sufficient to meet the needs of the State, which is 
one of the most economically backward in the entire country. That is why very much more 
has to be done not only by the Government of India but also by the State Government. 
But the picture that is being painted here, if I may use the word, was rather a romantic 
one which was perhaps because of the nature of the hon. Leader of the Opposition sitting 
opposite, I do not know what picture was conjured up before the other Members.... 


he मर ak 2k ake ok ek ok 


But anybody who did not know that situation and who was listening to him might have 
got away with the impression that from the helicopter in which I was flying, I was busy 
shooting down all the politicians who were opposed to me. The only reply that I can make 
to this 1s if there was anybody who toppled the previous Government there it was the leader 
of that Government himself. 


One of the amendments moved speaks of totalitarian methods. That is indeed a most 
extraordinary statement and it shows a certain lack of knowledge of how totalitarian 
Governments have acted in the past or, where they exist today, are acting today. I think it 
is crystal clear not only from my words but from my actions that I stand for democracy, 
unqualified and unchallenged democracy, in the country as a whole, in every State and 
within every party of our country. Any doctrine or system which encourages a few to think 
that they are better than the people at large and that they can order about the people at 
large is repugnant. One has only to see what is happening to dictatorships around the world 
to know that this system is dangerous and self-defeating even in the short run, to say nothing 
of the longer run. After the fourth general elections hon. Members are aware that I was 
the first to proclaim unhesitatingly that the Central Government would respect the will of 
the people and would extend their full cooperation to all the State Governments which 
were established after the elections and we have given our best cooperation to all State 
Governments, whatever their political complexion. In fact, some of the people who talk 
of democracy in this hon. House at the same time would like us to change our attitude 
with regard to those parties with whom they do not happen to agree. This is a strange 


description of democracy. Some State Governments have been able to appreciate our help, 
others do not say so openly. That is because every State Government needs a bogeyman 
on whom they can transfer the responsibility for their own shortcomings and their genuine 
difficulties. Who can be more convenient than the Central Government? But this has not 
deflected us from our path of giving constructive—often one-sided—cooperation to all State 
Governments. Had we not followed this policy, the foundation of our Republic and of our 
Union would have been weakened after the swift political changes of the last few years. 


Another hon. Member, Shri Dahyabhai Patel, spoke of the needs of Gujarat. In the 
past years, Shri Patel used to roam about during such a debate, all over the world, if I 
may put it that way, from China to Peru but this time he restricted his field to merely Gujarat 
and Taiwan. I do not know whether he has found some link or affinity between the two. 
He has been pleased to observe that the notes which the Chief Minister of Gujarat gave to 
me last month, when I went to Ahmedabad, ably summed up what Shni Patel himself has 
been saying for years. 


Now, Sir, the notes contain certain legitimate demands but there are also certain 
proposals which would be extremely difficult to accept. If I may give an example, there 
was a demand for a steel mill there. Now I do not have to go into steel economics here, 
but the setting up of a steel mill, thousands of miles away from any source of iron ore or 
coal would certainly make steel very costly and I doubt if it 1s a proposal which could be 
acceptable to any Government. 


fc 2c 3 afe मर akc मु अः् मर 


A complaint was also made that we are going slow with regard to oil exploration in 
Gujarat. This is a most unjust complaint. The hon. Minister is sitting here and I have no 
doubt that he has spoken on this matter earlier and the House is aware of the detailed 
negotiations in regard to offshore drilling along the coast of Gujarat. I believe that the 
first deep sea operation should start any day now. As the President’s Address has rightly 
observed, oil is next only to steel in taking us nearer to self-reliance. 


The hon. Shri M. P. Bhargava has rightly cautioned the Members of this House against 
speaking loosely about the Supreme Court. Just now in my presence also many Members 
have touched upon this subject. Now, I do not think anyone in this House or even outside 
would like the name of the Supreme Court to be brought up lightly. After all, it is well 
recognised that one of the pillars of our democracy is the independent judiciary. Accusations 
have been made that I made disparaging remarks about the Supreme Court after its 
judgment on bank nationalisation. May I make it very clear that I have done no such thing? 
On the contrary, I stressed the importance of not saying anything without a full study of 
the Supreme Court judgment which at that time I had not seen and since then I have not 
spoken about that matter at all. 


2a मंध्म मर ak ek 


However, I did refer to the difficulties in the path of progress. This is a self-evident 
statement. Many Bills of reform and Acts of legislation which were meant to serve the 


11० 
बल 
Sater 


cause of progress have met with setbacks. Many of our land reform Acts have been taken 
to the Courts and have been invalidated either in part or in full, but we went back to the 
Legislature and to the Constitution and took the necessary remedial measures. This has 
happened in other countries also to which reference has been made by several hon. 
Members. No human institution is infallible. Those familiar with the constitutional history 
of the United States must have heard of the celebrated Dred Scott decision, when the US 
Supreme Court declared that slavery was legal and that the anti-slavery legislation passed 
by a State was ultra vires of the US Constitution, but within a few years the US Constitution 
itself was also changed. I do not want to go into the history of the New Deal and the 
conflicts which arose between the Legislature and the judiciary in the USA and the very 
open and forthright statements which the then President of the US made about their own 
judiciary. All organs of the Government are subject to the same historical forces and have 
to be receptive to the same needs and compulsions in evolving a social order. There is in 
Parliament and outside a widespread feeling that Parliament should not be divested of the 
power to amend the Constitution. I believe all political parties, with the expected exceptions, 
are in favour of Parliament having the power to make laws for the country, especially in 
regard to social justice and social progress. The Nath Pai Bill seeks to remove any doubts 
that might have arisen about the competence of Parliament as a result of the judgement of 
the Supreme Court in the case of Golaknath vs the State of Punjab. 


Some hon. Members-—in fact, many hon. Members—have spoken of the increasing 
violence in West Bengal and other parts of the country. In his Address the President has 
expressed concern at the continuing resort to violence by certain extremist political groups 
which pursue disruptive aims. Violence feeds violence, whatever be its origin, whether it 
is communal, regional or economically or politically motivated. I do not think that any 
kind of violence can be justified at any time, but this 1s a problem which needs the concerted 
efforts of all sections of society. We must strengthen the fibre of our people to resist 
violence. I was a little surprised to hear one hon. Member making rather contradictory 
statements. While, on the one hand, we should not interfere with the Government of Bengal, 
on the other hand, we should do something about what is happening there. Now, Sir, it 1s 
not possible to do both. In this sort of situation the responsibility is of the State Government. 
It is up to the parties forming the Government there not only to take action themselves, 
but also to create the type of public opinion which will not stand for this kind of action, 
this kind cf taking the law in their own hands by a few people, causing not only loss of 
life and other harm, but disrupting the daily life of the majority of the pcople. It is only by 
doing this that disruptive and anarchical groups can be made to realise that violence does 
not pay. 


I should like to tum now to the field of economic development. My hon. friend opposite 
sought to convey the impression that the economic outlook is not bright. Shri Dahyabhai 
Patel, not surprisingly said that the progress which the President has depicted, was illusory. 
On the other hand, many hon. Memhers have pointed out the opposite. Now, the President’s 
Address has tried to set out only the salient facts of our progress and has indicated the 
trends in the immediate future. The progress in agriculture is there for all to see. I do not 
exaggerate this progress and I have been Specially careful in my speeches to avoid the 


20:22: 0 :००१६४००:- 


22 


ee 
०5 भव 
१०१५१ amy 


phrase ‘green revolution’. The progress is there and cannot be denied. The new programme 
involving the package of improved agricultural techniques based on the use of high-yielding 
varieties of seeds, intensive application of fertilisers and extension of irrigation facilities, 
has made a definite impact on the rural economy. Industrial production also has picked up 
significantly. Trends in production in the current year so far point to an increase of more 
than 7 per cent. There is no doubt that the economy is now much better poised for growth 
than ever before. 


There was also reference, at some length, to the present trends in price, but may I request 
hon. Members to look at the situation on the proper perspective ? Can it be denied that 
1968 was characterised by a considerable degree of price stability ? It is true that since 
the middle of November, 1969, prices have been under pressure. This is due mainly to the 
downward revision in the crop estimates of cotton and groundnut and the delay of winter 
rains in many parts of the country. Between November 1969 and February this year there 
was a contra-seasonal rise in prices, but over the last one month the position has again 
become stable because of a number of measures taken by Government and the Reserve 
Bank. In the last few weeks, while the Reserve Bank has taken a number of measures to 
tighten its credit control over bank advances against commodities which are subject to 
demand and price pressures, Government has been building up a sufficient buffer-stock. 
Foodgrains, as we all know, play a very important part in influencing price trends. 
Production in the current year, I am told, may be of the order of 100 million tonnes. By 
the end of this month the total stock with the Centre and States should be about 4-5 million 
tonnes. We are thus better placed now to influence the prices of foodgrains. However, there 
is no doubt that Government will continue to be vigilant. We know that a rise in prices 
causes considerable hardship to people, particularly the poorer sections of society, but some 
critics are raising the bogey of prices because they want outlays in the public sector to be 
kept down. They do not reckon with the heavy toll which a reduction in public sector outlay 
takes in terms of increased unemployment and economic stagnation. We have, therefore, 
to keep in view the objectives of growth and stability in formulating our economic strategy. 


Now, Sir, I share the concern expressed by many hon. Members regarding 
unemployment. I have spoken on this matter on many occasions and the President has 
also mentioned it. 1 have mentioned it in my Budget speech. I think some hon. Members 
tried to quantify this problem of educated unemployed by referring to a 77 per cent increase 
in unemployment. Now, reference has also been made to inequalities of income. I have 
said on previous occasions that the two problems, i.e., unemployment and economic 
inequalities, are not separate but very closely interlinked. The concept of economic equality 
itself should be raised from the level of the income redistribution of existing wealth or 
incomes to an altogether different plane. We aim at an equitable distribution of income 
earning opportunities. It is only in this way that we can harmonise the two important 
objectives of augmentation of production and enlargement of employment opportunities. 
I should also like to say that a solution to the unemployment problem has to be found 
within the framework of the Plan. There cannot be a separate or independent solution, and 
looked at in this way by far the most effective remedy for unemployment is the vigorous 
implementation of the Plan. Our labour force is growing at the rate of 2.5 per cent per 


$1 


year. An annual growth rate of anything less than 5 to 6 per cent will therefore prove 
inadequate to provide opportunities for the absorption of this growing work force. 
Theréfore, the need is to step up the outlay on the Plan and to raise the rate of investment. 
This is what Government is trying to do. All those who are earnest about tackling this 
major problem should support the efforts to raise the level of Plan outlay. In the coming 
financial year we are enlarging it of the order roughly of Rs. 400 crores in the States’ and 
the Central Plans together. This is not an insignificant increase and it will contribute 
materially to a faster tempo of development and creation of more job opportunities. It is 
also necessary to impart a conscious employment-bias to our development programmes. 
The new Budget has made special provision for programmes such as those relating to rural 
works and small farmers, land reclamation and improvement, renovation of minor irrigation 
works, proper maintenance of irrigation channels, construction of roads linking the villages 
with marketing centres, etc. All these could be and should be undertaken as part of the 
programme and in their totality they will make, as I said earlier, a significant contribution 
to rural development as also to the generation of additional employment. The details of 
some of these programmes have been given in the brochure entitled “Growth with Social 
Justice” circulated along with other Budget documents. 


Growth with social justice is particularly relevant to our industnal development. The 
new industrial licensing policy keeps this objective in view. Government have tried to 
remove the impediments to a fast rate of growth in the industrial sector, while providing 
safeguards against the concentration of economic power and monopolistic trends.The 
raising of the limit for industrial licensing is intended to broaden the base on which our 
industrial structure must stand. 


ae ac मर me जद oe He i मर 


It will provide opportunities to small and medium entrepreneurs. Credit policies are 
also being reoriented so as to assist small and medium entrepreneurs, and I know that this 
will make a difference. 


Now, Sir there has been a lot of noise here and elsewhere with regard to the Goa 


Fertilizer Project, I am afraid that some of this criticism is rather ill-informed. As perhaps © 


the hon. Minister has said, this project was before the Government since 1964. Approval 
was given and a firm licence was issued in December, 1966. The requisite clearance for 
financial assistance from some international agencies and the Cooly Fund was also given 
some time ago. But towards the end of December, 1969, the Government were called upon 
to take a view only on two limited points. One was what should be the condition which 
the public financial institutions might stipulate before underwriting the public issue of shares 
by the company; and the second was whether the Government should agree to a further 
small increase in the drawal of loan assistance from the Cooly Funds to match certain 
changes in the pattern of financing of the project. So far as the first issue is concerned, 
Government have ensured two seats on the Board of Management. Regarding the second, 
having already agreed to a loan of Rs. 18-5 crores from the Cooly Funds, Government 
could not have taken serious objection to a further drawal of Rs. 3 crores. There is no 
doubt that our preference is and will remain to have such projects in the public sector. In 


eens 5 ५५,००५ ३६८४२ ys 28 RR 5 re ५०३१६ 
ee Sree ees 26008 
ee eee 


Peed 
ale eae aA ORS 2 
nth SYA CAA बन, 


52 


Seo: Seren nn 12 ४ 


Ss Sete nota 22222 


EI PEP TERRE) NITED Et Ge POT te A ee Tiel Cte a OPO चर कट: abate ele गरगट टन 

27772: ESD RNA aE RL ck 
Sater ae See ORS ROS EC oe 
SOROS RYN Cs RS ROO aa EO a Rex Serrano a 00:0५: ४:४० 


2222: st 
11 fee: 


fact, in the crucial field of fertilizer production, the public sector already occupies a 
commanding position. We have 8 plants in actual production with a capacity of 0-65 million 
tonnes; 7 plants with a total capacity of 1.03 million tonnes, these are in different stages 
of actual implementation. Besides, 7 plants, including 3 coal-based plants, have been 
allotted to the public sector which, when implemented, will result in additional capacity 
of 1.17 million tonnes. As against this, there are only 5 plants in the private Sector now in 
production with a capacity of 0.43 million tonnes, and the Goa plant will mean an addition 
of only 0.17 million tonnes. Letters of intent have been given to a few other projects, but 
at this stage it is doubtful whether they will come up as on previous occasions many of 
these have not materialised because of the difficulties relating to finance, feed-stocks and 
other problems which remain unresolved. 


a ak a ak a ak ae a of 


There is continuing discussion on nationalisation. I am not afraid of nationalisation, 
nor do I believe that it is an answer to all our difficulties. I think that any proposal for 
nationalisation should be subjected to two tests. 


ak 2k 2k मंद > भर aK ic ak 


Firstly, we should see whether it is necessary from the point of view of enabling the 
public sector to occupy a key position in the economy and, secondly, whether it does further 
our social objectives. 


ae aie और fe 2 मं 2K 2c ae 


Our approach must be realistic and practical. At any moment if any privately-owned 
industry is operating against the national interest or is impeding social progress, we should 
not hesitate to take it over. At the present moment, our priority is the acceleration of 
development so that the problems of unemployment and inequalities are solved, and this 
calls for not only the right policy but unremitting hard work, higher savings and greater 
investment. The emphasis should, therefore, be on the flow of the scarce public capital 
into new areas of production. The economic battle which lies ahead requires many weapons 
in Our armoury and nationalisation is only one of these weapons, and it is one which should 
be used judiciously and with great care. It is against this background that I would urge 
upon the hon. Members to consider the various suggestions which have been made either 
during the course of the debate or in the amendments for the nationalisation of the different 
sectors of the economy. 


The problem of Centre-State relations, more particularly financial relations, has also 
been raised now as it has been in every debate for quite a long time. Various issues 
pertaining to this problem have been debated in different forums, in Parliament and also 
in the National Development Council. They have also been studied in depth by expert 
bodies such as the Planning Commission and the Administrative Reforms Commission. I 
do not think that there is any conflict between the interests of the States and the Centre. 
Both are charged with the responsibility of promoting the good of the people in the fields 
respectively assigned to them. Some sources of revenue are assigned to the Centre under 


53 


the Constitution and these are a little more elastic than those allocated to the States. Let 
us look into this matter. If our objective of common citizenship and the free movement of 
goods and service within the country is to be assured, is it possible for sources such as 
income-tax or excise duty or customs to be assigned to a unit smaller than the Union 
Government ? The founding fathers of our Constitution, therefore, wisely assigned these 
revenues to the Union. At the same time, they did realise that the needs of the States which 
were responsible for such vital functions as law and order, education, public health, would 
be constantly growing with development. So they laid down a scheme for the sharing of 
the resources of the Centre with the States and also provided for a periodical review through 
an independent body, namely, the Finance Commission. As far as I know, in none of the 
older federations is there a body comparable to our Finance Commission. The resources 
transferred from the Centre to the States in accordance with the recommendations of the 
Finance Commission have steadily grown. The amount transferred to the States under the 
Award of the Finance Commission in the First Plan period was Rs. 386 crores. But it is 
estimated to be Rs. 4,066 crores during the Fourth Plan period. Over and above this, the 
Centre has also been providing assistance for the implementation of the States Plans and 
for some of the weaker States, the Central assistance will be as much as 90 per cent and 
even more of the total size of their Plans. 


The States have also considerable latitude in drawing up their programmes with 
reference to the local problems. Central assistance is now being provided in the form of 
block loans and block grants in accordance with the decisions which have been reached 
jointly by the States in the National Development Council. The problem now is to ensure 
how these State programmes will fit into the national framework and fulfil our basic 
objectives. 


As hon. Members know, the Central Government is constantly asked what it is doing 
for the backward classes, the backward regions and for items such as rural water supply, 
etc. Now, how is the Centre to discharge those responsibilities unless it has certain sanctions 
at its disposal ? Complaints are also made that a large number of villages are still without 
drinking water. Now, if you look at the overall provision for drinking water supply, it is 
not inadequate in our Plan. And I feel that even with the existing provision, substantial 
impact can be made on this problem. But it is necessary to ensure that funds meant for 
rural water supply and for the development of backward areas are not diverted to any other 
purpose. Unfortunately, sometimes it does happen. 


When we speak of the backward areas, we should remember that even the so-called 
advanced States have backward pockets and the policy which we propose should be such 
as to promote accelerated development of all these pockets wherever they may be. 


ee a ae ak ak मंजर मं 


The policies of the financial institutions are also being reoriented in favour of the 
development of industries in such areas and as the President’s Address has pointed out, 


all these schemes will be fruitful only if the infrastructure for development is built up 
expeditiously in all these areas. 


NG PR rs eR CRISS जप पक गा 2 की ०१ SF RS 22०2::02०7 


Seen 


Ss eS 


Regn aT I 


Shri S.N. Mishra spoke of the Fourth Plan being outdated. I honestly do not understand 
what is meant by this. The immediate tasks before the nation in the economic field are to 
reduce disparities swiftly while adding to production; also to achieve and consolidate 
agricultural and industrial self-reliance and to lay the firm basis for further technological 
change from our own capacity and know-how. While doing this, we must pay special 
attention to the problem of the educated unemployed on the one hand the rural landless 
on the other. Now, the Fourth Plan does set out to do this and whatever re-thinking or 
enlargement we have done in the last few months has been in order to do this more 
effectively. So it is not as if the Fourth Plan was drawn up some 15 years or more ago and 
has now merely been touched up and presented to the country anew. 


Now I come to the points raised by some hon. Members relating to foreign affairs. 
Many of these have been discussed in this House on several occasions. I hope the House 
will excuse me but it does seem as if the thinking on foreign affairs of some Members has 
got stuck somewhere. The Plan has not got stuck, it is not the Plan, it is the thinking of 
some people that gets stuck up while the world itself has changed and moved very much 
further. 


ie 3c मं ae aie भर ae a a 


Many Governments have noticeably given up their rigid and inflexible postures of the 
past whether in concept or in expression. But I noticed, while I was in the House before 
speaking, that some of our Members have obviously not done so. Our own endeavour has 
been to keep pace with the changes in the world and even, if possible, to anticipate them 
so that our national interests are safeguarded at all times. Hon. Members will agree that 
no country can claim that, however right or strong its policies, the expected results are 
always realised. We have to persevere with patience and determination and not give up 
what we consider to be right and moral because of some temporary setback. 


Sir, we have been strengthening our friendship. I was astonished to learn that some 
Members have thought that there has been a deterioration in our relations with our 
neighbouring countries. As the President in his Address said, we attach great importance 
to our relations with Afghanistan, Burma, Ceylon, Iran and Nepal and have devoted special 
attention to these countries. We are making sincere and earnest efforts to increase our 
economic and political cooperation with these countries. Some differences or minor 
difficulties might arise occasionally. But these will always be resolved in a spirit of 
goodwill, understanding and cordiality. 


As regards our two other neighbours, Pakistan and China, there have been no dramatic 
developments. The House knows that it is my view that we should keep trying to make 
Pakistan realise the importance of resolving all bilateral differences in a peaceful manner. 
I feel that this is as much in their interest as it is in ours to give up attitudes of conflict 
and confrontation. It is unfortunate that China continues to see the realities of India through 
a distorted mirror. 


Sir, an hon. Member here said that we did not outline what steps we would take in 
this regard in the President’s Address. I am sure the House will appreciate that these are 


$5 


hardly matters which one can outline beforehand. The whole world has changed and is 
changing today, and I think we are trying to keep pace with these changes. In this fluid 
and delicate situation it is better not to say too much. 


. Some hon. Members have allowed anger and frustration to cloud their thinking. Some 
have said that our political freedom is being endangered. Quite different reasons were given 
by the different parties. Now, political freedom can be endangered basically only by one 
thing, and that is when the people themselves are weakened, whether they are weakened 
by communalism, i.e., by lack of trust among themselves or whether they are weakened 
by any one group thinking that they know all the answers and the people need not be 
consulted. Both are equally dangerous to democracy. 


The Government are fully aware of the difficulties faced by the minority communities 
and are doing everything possible to try and help them. As I said on a previous occasion, 
this is not a matter which can be dealt with purely administratively or by making laws. It 
is something in which very consciously and determinedly we have to create a right social 
atmosphere: It is for the hon. Members to judge whether all political parties in our country 
are helping to create such an atmosphere. 


Sir, the purpose of the Opposition is obviously to oppose... 


afc 2 9k ae 2 2 ai ac oi 


That is the purpose*. But when they find that it is not possible to change, then the 
Opposition fumes in the form of frustration and anger. Personally, Sir, I have always 
welcomed opposition because when life is easy one tends to become flabby and it is not 
good to be flabby. But in opposing the Government’s policies, I want our hon. Members 
not to sap the self-confidence of the nation. In fact, I would go a step further and submit 
to them that the way in which the public of India is reacting or is acting—because it is we 
who are reacting to what they do, it is they who are giving the direction, it is they who 
have the momentum for progress and change-they will refuse to shed their self-confidence 
however much some individuals might try to say all these things. 


In my Budget Speech I set out our socio-economic thinking but it has a political 
counterpart as well. Just as we have avoided the extremes of doing too little or attempt 
too much in economics, so also do we wish to avoid the political extremes. We are 
convinced that there is no path better than the democratic, secular, socialist path to which 
we are pledged. I think it was in this House that somebody said that democracy comes 
first and socialism comes second or something like that. I want to make it very clear that I 
think there cannot be true democracy without socialism and secularism. Nor do I think 
there can be true socialism without democracy. All these are parts of the same whole. 


Now, Sir, when I was talking earlier about the Opposition I was not saying that they 
should not oppose. I was merely drawing their attention to the roots of our culture where 
it 1s said that because of anger and frustration, one is not able to think clearly, to speak 


* Replying to Shri Rajnarain's remark, “Not only to oppose but to satisfy the public and change the Government”. 


panes 


RAV Snes ब०० ०००८०, EOGP ne Bo AENEAN GOS IP QIT 
Satna 550०० 22722270००५००००१:१०१०:८८: 20%: Neetee . 21207: on 
se a5 wide aida ea > hs ath 6) 6.oo o on aaa ७7० ०.५७ बा 
ro ०००:००-०४४००८००7४५०८०००९०३ ८०४१० i 22५ oa . 
tne pine cal eta Pe fos e ees) = 
Shae TENE oe RRP ९००१ Pt iocncere ‘ i 
CON 7०२77 0 गम १ 2००६ 4५८27००००: 4 ८० > 
SSO NTR 8 SEP OC LO 2 wees Ore 


eoantae मी गा oe eo "a 
Set eee 
ee 
2 ००22: 
£:7:7220:2:2:77: 


en 
बट: 


or 
reacts 
22222 

aes 


ate 
0.28 
fa) 


clearly or to act clearly. As the Bhagwad Gita warns us, from anger comes confusion. And 
I think a lot of the confusion that has been generated in this House recently, has come 
from anger and frustration. So I would request all hon. Members to think calmly and clearly 
about all these questions. I have no doubt that if we keep determinedly to the path which I 
have outlined, we shall overcome all the obstacles in our way. 


Sir, 1 commend.the Motion of Shr Arjun Arora to this honourable House. 


57 


Democracy and Development" 


For the last five days or so we have had the debate on the President’s Address. I am 
glad that several Members recognise that this Address marks the beginning of a new phase 
in our national life. It is reflected not only in the Budget but in the many steps which have 
been taken and it will further be reflected in other steps. We have had the customary 
speeches from hon. Members sitting opposite in which they have set forth views, which 
are expected and well-known from their side. Nevertheless we have always welcomed 
criticism of all kinds, especially in a debate of this nature which gives us an opportunity 
of putting forward our own objectives and policies. 


The President has beckoned to us to look ahead, to look forward. Some of our friends 
Opposite seem to have turned a deaf ear to this call; this has not surprised us. The debate 
has succeeded in performing another useful function. The events of the last few months 
have had the effect of bringing together on the one side people who are largely in favour 
of progress and on the other side those who look backward...(/nterruption. ) 


2 2k Ok अर मंद मै ae ook 


In this House we are so absorbed in immediate problems that we tend to take for granted 
the large intellectual and political forces at work in the world (/nterruptions). As you have 
yourself remarked, Sir, neither loud noise nor abuse is a substitute for argument. I was 
saying that we tend to be absorbed in day to day problems and therefore tend to take for 
granted the larger intellectual and political forces which are at work in the world today. 
While we are involved in changing the economic and social structure of our country, 


technology is changing and transforming the entire world. Modern communication methods © 


are having an impact on young people everywhere including our own country, even in the 
remote parts of the country. Let us not forget that what we say and do today must have 
meaning for young people. Our decisions must stand the test of their approval during the 
coming years. 


I must confess my disappointment at the speech of the hon. Leader of the Opposition. 
Many of us had hoped that the emergence of a formal Leader of the Opposition would 
make a difference in the level of the debate and would strengthen parliamentary convention 
and civilitics. I am sorry that this hope has not been fulfilled. His speech was short on 
vision, short on perspective, short on facts and short on temper. Frustration breathes through 
every word he uttered. A sense of defeat and utter helplessness which has enveloped him 


* Replying to the debate on the Motion of Thanks on the President’s Address, L.S. Deb., 4 March, 1970, cc. 211-28. 


58 


ond 
wats 
Pa हि 
हर 
पट 
x 
sate 
ite 
* Phy 
' 
* es “a 
4 - 
: 
te 
ms ms . 
2० 
we oy 
= 
हू 


a 
i 


aes SRR RRR RR a 5: एक 
x! eee they 7, 
Mae een 


a 
22222 


oe, 

S 
Senor 
Ke a 


oe 
at: 40.42 00200: 4४५ 
8 22/02/0042: प (वन मद 
202 2९ 


SO ROOT A 
Cac 
BESO eae 
BP ON ONE 
2,222 2०९८0 7००४४ 
1: 00::22%::: 72: नटट 
4०:22 Oe 


TP नर्स 
pence 
Nites 


2022 


Petes 
cats 


2० 


SON Eee 
32320 


३९ . 
eacatecaaret ota 
seats = 
पर इक बम 
“_?. pos non me tg हा 


Ss 


and his group, I am glad to say that it is not shared by the people of this country or by any 
of us on this side of the House. At no time have our people felt more imbued not only 
with the urge for change but also with a growing feeling of their capacity to bring about 
this change. 


Sir, recent events have brought about, as I said just now, a broad division between 
forward-looking people and those who wish to stay out. In fact, it was the likemindedness 
among the no-changers that in a way led to the events which have taken place. The debate 
has given further proof of such likemindedness. Prof. Ranga and Dr. Ram Subhag Singh 
sounded much alike except for their accent (Interruption) I believe that a common mint 
supplies both of them with the currency for their ideas and their phrases. 


The hon. Member, Shri S.K. Patil, sought to resurrect Mark Twain. Mark Twain has 
been one of my favourite authors when I was a child and, if I may say so, it was not one 
of his better sayings which was quoted. Mr. Patil spoke of slogans, but few people have 
used more slogans. He talked also of my being a prisoner. Perhaps, the hon. House has 
heard the story of the tiger which was put in a cage, but he took consolation in thinking 
that it was the whole world which was in a cage because he saw it through the bars. 


Shri Patil has been a forthright and candid person. He has never hidden his true 
Opinions, no matter how he has voted. I know that his views on nationalisation, on socialism 
and the privy purse are not shared by all those among whom he now sits. I hope, however, 
that he will vote with them as he voted with the Congress when it adopted the 10 point 
resolution. He spoke of privy purses with great passion. Let him convert his own followers 
to his point of view, before he preached to the rest of the House and to the Government. 


The House and the country need have no feeling that anything wrong is done either in 
appreciating the historic role played by the princes when our country became independent 
or in asking them today to move with history in the same spirit which they had then 
displayed. I should like to acknowledge the courage and farsightedness which a large 
number of princes are displaying to bring about social integration even as they helped the 
political integration of the country. 


However, I should like to remind the House that it was no accident that the loudest 
acclamation during the President’s Address was reserved for his mention of the ending of 
privy purses and the privileges. 


Some hon. Members talked of inter-border disputes. I think, Shri Lakkappa mentioned 
it. The object of setting up Commissions is to assess facts and points of view in depth so 
that their recommendations can lead to decisions which have a measure of fairness. 
Territorial disputes have arisen between our States because of a variety of historical 
circumstances. The factors are not the same everywhere ; but issues do not get settled unless 
the action taken will generally satisfy the majority or dissatisfy the least number of the 
people concerned. Hon. Members will recall that several recommendations made by the 
State Reorganisation Commission had either to be substantially modified or to be rejected. 
But in all such cases, the main object was to provide the maximum satisfaction to the people 
concerned. There was a demand also for certain basic principles to be enunciated to solve 


59 


the present disputes and those that might arise in future. When this was first said, I think 
it was at the meeting of the National Integration Council in Srinagar. | must confess that 
the idea seemed attractive but on further consideration it seems somewhat naive to suggest 
that all human affairs can be reduced to general laws and I think that there might be more 
practical wisdom in solving some of the issues, in the light of their own facts and 
circumstances. It might be hard to evolve principles to fit all cases in a way which would 
satisfy everyone. Indeed, we know from experience that some solutions create more 
problems than they solve. I would, therefore, make a plea for us to try to isolate some of 
these problems rather than to generalise them. 


It has been said in this House and outside that we are, or perhaps I am, planning to 
use the civil service for political purposes. I have denied and contradicted this on every 
possible occasion and I can say that my remark about committed civil servants has been 
twisted. I have always held the view that the duty of the civil servants is to give frank and 
honest advice and not to let their judgement be cramped by fear or favour. I certainly do 
not want civil servants who are in any way servile or politically convenient because if 
they were so, they would not be helpful to the Government or to the administration. 
However, I do think that all people who are in charge of the administration or of projects 
should have a commitment to the service of the people and their welfare. They should 
think of people as individual human beings, not merely as statistics. Therefore, when I 
used the word “commitment”, what I meant, as I have clanfied on previous occasions, is 
that they should be loyal to the guiding principles of our Constitution and the objectives 
which have been adopted by Parliament. 


2 2K OK KK > mie Ke ak 


I think it is a good question.* They are not disloyal but we are all aware that previously 
there was not great stress laid on attitudes, because Government did not have the great 
problems of development and change before it. By and large, I have found these qualities 
of courage and conviction at all levels of the civil services. 


While talking of the civil service, 1 am aware that since Government have to assume 


larger responsibilities, we must constantly aim at greater efficiency, more expertise and 
more speedy methods of work. 


af 2 मै 2k OK मर 40K ज॑र 


Reference was made by several hon. Members to an interview which I gave some 
months ago to a French magazine called Elle. Hon. Members have presumably not seen 
the original and they have referred to a translation. The translated version has appeared in 
a weekly which I do not normally see and which always has a slant of its own. Only this 
morning I saw the original article in French, not the whole series—I believe three series 
have appeared and more are to come but the portion to which reference was made here. 
The lady who interviewed me seems to have got mixed up about certain things. Immediately 
before the lines which were mentioned here, she has mentioned my great reverence to 
Gandhiji. The words which appear afterwards which were quoted here are not in quotation 


* Replying to a Member's question : “Are they loyal 7” 


marks they are her own version of what she thought I had said. She also says that I told 
her that Gandhiji lived in Anand Bhavan during all his visits to Delhi. Sometimes, in these 
interviews, people get a little mixed up. As I said, as regards the reference to village 
economy, she does not claim to quote my exact words. Hon. Members will appreciate that 
with the increasing number of journals which are cropping up all over the place, it is hardly 
possible to chase every wrong or twisted article. If one did that, one would not have time 
for anything else, specially in regard to the journals brought out by some of the hon. 
Members, sitting opposite which seem to have made it their business to deliberately twist 
the meaning of whatever I say. In Gandhi Centenary Year, there was hardly a meeting where 
I did not refer to Gandhiji and pay tribute to the inspiration and guidance which he gave 
to our country in its darkest hour. In this House, I have referred to him as the greatest 
revolutionary of our times. It is unthinkable and in fact I did not call him reactionary. The 
words “reactionary and mad cap’, I put these in quotation marks, are presumably Shni Piloo 
Mody’s own contribution to truth ! 


Acharya Kripalani has also referred to the Padma Shri award to Shn Ritwik Ghatak. 
Shri Ghatak is a film maker, and most Indian and foreign film critics think he is one of 
the most creative of our film makers. When an artist is honoured, it is for his art—a musician 
for the quality of his music, an artist for the quality of his painting. Shri Ghatak, I believe, 
had to go through many stresses. He has publicly said, a few days ago, that he had gone 
through a severe mental crisis and had uttered some unfortunate words. Gandhiji’s greatness 
cannot be sullied by such words. Hence, there should be Gandhian forgiveness in such 
things. We all know the humour and tolerance with which he himself dealt with such 
matters. 


Hon. Members have naturally been concerned with our economic policy. I shall not 
deal with this matter in details today, as it will be discussed later on when the budget and 
the Plan are considered. However, I should like to mention a few points which, it seems 
to me, are based on wrong assumptions and imperfect data. 


Prof. Ranga sought to develop a thesis of his own on steel. He seems to doubt that 
there would be any demand for the stee! which we are planning to produce. He is perhaps 
under the impression that recessionary trends for the demand in steel and other engineering 
projects still continue. There was a decline in demand for steel between 1964 and 1968 ; 
but since then there has been a steady and significant rise. It is well known that there is an 
acute shortage of various types of steel such as billets, sheets, plates and wire rods. We 
must remember that any decision on the creation of additional capacity in steel has to be 
taken, not with reference to today’s needs, but the long-term projection of demand. It takes 
anything from one to seven years to plan, design and commission a steel plant and for it 
to attain the rated capacity. That is why we have decided on the expansion of Bokaro and 
Bhilai and have also initiated action for the creation of new capacities. 


The House is aware how many States are demanding steel plants. Perhaps Professor 
Ranga would be so kind as to help us out in dissuading them. Should he agree to this, 
may I ask him to start with Visakhapatnam ? 


HOOK मंप्ज॑ध् मं 


61 


es Seeker 
५ RSS 20325:225222255::3052552 02222: SMS Bae BM OOS BRO ao tn eae ७ 


बे ee 


Baka eae ea ae 
an 
Papeete 


fa 
ne 27:02 2 


I wonder how Shri Morarji Desai computed the capital cost of Bokaro at Rs. 2,860 
per tonne. Probably, he has not been told of the extra pig iron production of about 900,000 
tonnes. Taking this into account, the latest cost estimate would be about Rs. 2,500 per tonne 
The main factors which pushed up the cost, as compared to plants such as Rourkela, are 
(1) devaluation because of which the cost went up by Rs. 75 crores event at the 1.7 million 
tonne stage; (2) considerable time spent between the completion of the Rourkela plant and 
Bokaro plant during which period there was considerable escalation of the cost of steel, 
cement, labour and so on ; (3) the cost of domestic and international equipment has also 
risen continuously. Such over runs in costs in other projects, whether of the public sector 
or private sector, due to similar factors are not unknown. 


The Rourkela yield of finished steel from ingots at 1.8 million tonne stage is about 72 
per cent. In Bokaro this is estimated to be 81 per cent, which gives considerable advantage 
to Bokaro. In other words, if the investment costs are calculated per tonne of finished steel, 
this factor alone would lower the cost of Bokaro by about ten per cent. Calculating in terms 
of finished steel the cost of Rourkela would be about Rs. 2,750 per tonne of finished steel, 
against Bokaro’s investment cost of Rs. 3,100 per tonne of finished steel. 


It should also be stressed that there has been a greater element of Indianisation 
..indigenisation. 


ak ak ok 2c ae a ae 2c He 


Indigenisation entails additional cost not merely in respect of steel plants but also many 
other projects such as power and irrigation projects. 


It is understandable that Shri Morarji Desai should refer to the virtues of social control. 
However, his inference that the position did not significantly improve after the 
nationalisation of the fourteen banks is mistaken. I am deliberately not going into the matter 


here, because this matter will come up very soon when the Banking Bill comes up for 
discussion. 


Hon. Members are rightly agitated over Rhodesia. The Government of India consider 
the decision of the break-away regime to declare itself a Republic as totally illegal. 


Government will continue to support all measures taken by the world community and the 
African States against the racist regime. 


We maintain our firm belief that any constitution for this colonial territory must ensure 
the principle of “One man one vote” in a multi-racial society. We also hold the view that 
world action should be concerted towards taking effective steps to lead Rhodesia to 


independence based on the principle of NIBMAR-no independnece before majority African 
rule. 


The basic question before us today is what type of society we want to build. It is not 
merely a question of how much the national or the per capita income will go up but how 
one Indian will deal with another. Will he regard all his countrymen as equal ; will he 


believe that some people have more rights than others; if there are differences which are 
not unlikely in any society, how will they be resolved—by resort to violence or through 
discussion and understanding? 


We have inherited certain values not only from the long past but also from our training 
during the independnece movement under Mahatma Gandhi and Jawaharlal Nehru. 
(Interruption) 


ok He ae ae ak ok ae ak 


...and Netaji Subhash Chandra Bose although there was a slight difference because at 
that time Netaji stood for violence, while we were pursuing the path of non-violence. 


tok मंध्म॑ a fea मर 


I am talking about the independnece struggle.* There we had consciously taken the 
other path. I do not in any way want to lessen Netaji’s image, his influence on the nation 
or his contribution to the freedom of our country. He holds a unique position and the entire 
nation has respect and admiration for him. 


Let me make it very clear that our picture of India and the methods which we are 
pledged to pursue are certainly not those of the hon. Member opposite, Shri Vajpayee, and 
his party. He spoke of Indianisation. In his Address, the President has said that the problems 
of India require uniquely Indian solutions taking into account our way of life, our history 
and our tradition. 


ae afc म॑* afc ae fe Co अर 
If, therefore, Shri Vajpayee wants every Indian to love his country and to be patriotic, 
nobody can quarrel with that, and I certainly do not do so; nor is any special theory of 
Indianisation required. But, I think, his theory is not quite so innocent. Shri Vajpayee would 
not waste his energy वा stating something which 15 so obvious. He and those of his way of 


thinking have a very definite purpose. Evidently, they have taken upon themselves to be 
the judges of who 1s Indian and who 1s not. 


ae He जुर mK मंच ae aK ae aie 
This I think is most sinister**. Whenever any group sets itself up to decide who is an 


Indian and who 1s not, there is bound to be trouble. May I ask the hon. Member as to who 
will judge the quantum or the quality of Indianness of any individual ? 


MOK भर ea मे a अप ae 


Does he envisage that any tribunal would do it ?*** 


af ak ak OK ek ak 


* Responding to a query from Shri Kanwar Lal Gupta : “Do you disapprove of it ?” 
** Replying to Shri Atal Bihari Vajpayee who quipped, ‘‘certainly not.” 
*** Replying to Shri Om Prakash Tyagi who said, “Indian culture”. 


12222: es 10:22 Ast 
peed ee EES 7 
| बीना noel ea ORNS als bs तारे" aE oe AE) 


Pale 


ae “39 
ERS 
RR. ) 


Fhe two things are entirely different because not being progressive does not deny 
anybody any right....*(/nterruption) 


What I want to know is : Does the hon. Member envisage a tribunal to go into the 
matter or does he think that it is his party who should be assigned this task ? We remember 
vividly the havoc caused in America by some people who declared other Americans to be 
un-American, and, in the entire world, when some Germans maintained that other Germans 
were un—Aryan and, therefore, un-German. These people have paraded under the banner 
of ultra-nationalism and have attempted and, unfortunatley 1n some cases succeeded, in 
undermining the very basis of democratic society. Such assertion of ultra—nationalism is a 
masquerade to disguise the face of reaction. And this must be unmasked. (/nterruptions) 
If this course of Indianisation is so simple why should they argue ? (/mterruptions) 


aK गंध OK aK ak a me 2 मं 


I have thought over deeply about what Mr. Vajpayee said here and what his other 
colleagues have said. I think, it is time that all these statements should be replied to. 
(Interruptions) 1 would just say that the test of any statement is not how you yourself 
interpret it, but what impact it has on the people about whom you make that statement. 
(Interruptions). 


ek मर मै मं मै मै ae मर 


We should be on guard against fine phrases which hide extremist designs, whether of 
the extreme right or of the extreme left. 


Another spurious coin was put into circulation with the help of his** considerable 
speaking skill. I refer to the so-called swadeshi plan which is being propagated today by 
his party. This swadeshi plan is apparently...(/nterruptions) 


I have learnt that the exercise is done by an economist who has just arrived from 
Harvard University. I should like hon. Members to study this document in detail. 


we ac मर ae a 3 ai 2c भर 


Then they will discover that it is a mere outline which, promises much, but tells too 
little about how that promise is to be fulfilled. 


It promises rapid acceleration of the rate of growth to over 10% per annum with full 
employment ; the raising of the lowest 10% of the population, significantly above the 
poverty line; and, please note, with the immediate termination of all foreign aid. This is 
not all. This Santa Claus also promises a programme of investment for a fuil nuclear arsenal 
as well. (Interruptions) 


* Replying to Shri S.K. Tapuriah’s question : “How will you decide as to who is progressive and who is reactionary?” 


RGAE Pe PERIL BORIS PIPPI PLN ANE IES 
EOS AR te SCENE BS ORES 


aN 


eo 


rot’ 2. 
SDR 


crete 
rns 


oy x 
senna 


Bere. 


“Set 
See 


० ' 


one 


aaah =- oy 
None 


Rhoccuan seme cannn tes 


When I saw this document the simile that came to my mind was that of the famous 
Indian rope trick about which so much is said and so little seen. I hope the hon. Member 
Shri Vajpayee will tell us how he proposes to force the community to save 50 per cent of 
the additional income generated. How will the rate of growth of agricultural output be 
increased to 6.5 per cent a year ? And, if foreign aid is to be discontinued immediately, 
and even after allowance is made for some unused capacity in the machine-building 
industry, how and in what concrete ways, will such a vastly expanded programme be 
sustained ? From where will the investment come ? I think that a sober and objective 
examination of this so-called Swadeshi Plan will probably bring disenchantment. May I 
invite the hon. Member* to have his plan examined in a professional and technical manner 
for its internal consistency and for the soundness of its economic analysis ? One should 
examine the validity of its data and, what is even more important, its social and political 
implications for the kind of society we have been endeavouring to evolve in India. It seems 
to me that Shri Vajpayee’s party has a different set of political and social premises in mind, 
premises which are outside our system and which he is not prepared to articulate. In this 
plan there is a monopolistic conception of social order and its inconsistency is apparent in 
a democratic social system. It is true that I have given a good deal of time to Shri Vajpayee’s 
thoughts because I think that they merit it. I have tried to see through his words, behind 
his sweet phrases and his beautiful Hindi. 


OK Hook ok मं मंध् मर 


शा Morarjibhai has referred to my speech in Ujjain and also to what I said in the 
other House on the Supreme Court. 


Sir, in Ujjain, 1 barely referred to the Supreme Court, except to say that the news of 
its judgement had just come. 


मंद मद मै tok ak मै मं भू 


I want to say very categorically that our reverence to the Supreme Court 18 total. In 
fact, everyone in this land should have the highest regard for the judiciary. The Constitution 
has clearly laid down the role of the Courts. And, all three parts of the Government—the 
Legislature, the Executive, and the Judiciary,-are pledged to upholding the Constitution. 
But, Sir, the Constitution has also given us certain Directive Principles. In realising them, 
difficulties of interpretation might arise. This is not a new development. We have gone 
through this before. Many of our Bills on land reform and soon have met with reverses, 
and this was what I had referred to in Ujjain, just in one very brief sentence. 


But whenever any of our Acts has been struck down, we have taken the necessary 
remedial action within the framework of the Constitution, for every living Constitution 
contains within itself the capacity to respond to changing needs and to new forces of history. 


As I said at the beginning of my speech, the pace of change in the entire world and in 
our own country is much faster now. This is something which is beyond our control. It is 


* Shri Atal Bihari Vajpayee. 


65 


ats 2: Pe 
(0031 
teenie 


e 


a 


2०2० 
eee 


Are 
०७०० 


PPPRINI EE IRIS 
a See ०८० 


Ree 


= 


the technological and scientific changes which are coming about which are bringing this 
about. But in the last year, it did look to our people as if the pace of change in India in 
some directions was slowing down. This is what had created restlessness and disturbance 
in the minds of many and especially of the younger generation. Now, we are again in a 
position to go forward. Let nothing be said which will hold back our people, which will 
sow doubt in their minds or deflect them from their determined path. Mistakes are 
sometimes made : wrong things are also being done; Shn Atal Bihari Vajpayee made 
mention of some of them ; but basically, the people are on the move. They are impatient 
only because they see that change can be faster; they are impatient because they see that 
their difficulties and their hardships can be removed . Let it be said that responsible 


representatives of the people acted at this difficult time with vision and courage and with 
faith in the people of India. 


As I said, I remain deeply convinced that the democratic path is the only path for India 
to solve its problems. But there can be no true democracy without socialism and without 
secularism. There can be no true socialism without true democracy. So, let us move forward 


with this ideal, for only then shall we be able to reach our goal and overcome all 
obstacles...(/nterruptions) 


DSLR EE 
22222 BIG 2227 os eee 20022 
nae 2:22: ४222 CEN ° 
Ps ८22 i Dee 22202 2 4 किक 07८1 40०7००४ 22: 
23272 Sa 227: 2272 Oe 


हु 


66 


Problems and Prospects of Indian Economy* 


Mr. Speaker, Sir, the President’s Address has been debated for three days. Many hon. 
Members have spoken and I am grateful to those who have supported the Motion and to 
those who have offered useful suggestions. 


I am glad that several Members saw in the Address the beginning of a great renewal. 
With the accession of strength and faith from a fresh mandate given by a new generation, 
we are on the threshold of a new beginning. Our people have proved that the dark 
forebodings of pessimists at home and abroad were the mumblings of false prophets. 


I must hasten to add that I look upon the massive support of the electorate not as an 
achievement but as an opportunity. The President’s Address has indicated some of the steps 
which the Government propose to take to make use of this opportunity. These steps and 
many others will have to be translated into operational programmes. In the meanwhile, 
Government welcomes constructive criticism which will help to improve our programmes. 


In my election speeches which, unfortunately, Shri Vajpayee does not seem to have 
rcad—I repeat—in every single speech ] have said that the road ahead is long and full of 
hardships and those who supported us should be prepared for hard work, for difficulties 
and perhaps even for danger. 


I have carefully followed the speeches of the hon. Members. I was touched by the great 
solicitude shown by Shni Fatehsinghrao Gaekwad for the plight of the Scheduled Castes 
and the Scheduled Tribes and Shnmati Gayatri Devi’s concern for the poor. It seems easier 
to shed tears than privy purses. I assure them and the House that these vestiges of feudalism 
cannot last long ...(/nterruptions). 


I welcome the endorsement of the need to prevent pollution of air, water and soil and 
the imbalances of nature around us. I myself have been deeply interested in ecology since 
long before that word became fashionable 1n the western world. 


The complaint of some Members that AIR and TV were used by the Government for 
Party ends need not be taken seriously. The only time I had broadcast was to announce 
the dissolution of the Lok Sabha. 


Complaints against the Election Commission have already been dealt with by my 
colleague, the Minister of Law and Justice. 


* Replying to the debate on the Motion of Thanks on the President's Address, L.S. Deb., 2 April, 1971, cc. 130-43. 


42: A 2272222.% are ee 2228 ५ ee , 
ie in CREE 22225 ८5 


a4 
if 2422 Tine (०६ a Bea A 
ve SEEPS ae ORS I Re PEERS 02/000074% 222 20% ४५% 


::02/2::.2%277%::००00:0:272:0% ४: :6:0777:75272%22:/777 47/67/0772: i 
INES RADI S RE OIE eR EC Si (८ ect Sa 
we 2 


ae a ae 
= Ol% 
me 222 
one 
re 
oS 
2 
Soe 
a! ५2 1222 24 


प४. ०१६ 5 
: es हैं 72032 
22 


दम, 
० बह 
uo 


ae 
22६५ 

लो BS < 

hte RR 


eS 


See 
oe १०३०. 
ee 


207४2 
ees 
ae ee RS 


ee Soe 


anes oo 


* २०००११०८ 
“7710 जज, 

= 

$s 


22 
५८ 
कर 
es ere 


ay 
०१०२० 


os 
ree 


2222 
areas 


= 
०५ 


FS 
21725 
Se oe 
22222 


on 
2222: 


4०0 ०%:८८४०-८८:६१६०८ ००१०० 


acateret tease ae 
a mae 
~ 


RR ne ear ee 
222 200: aaa eee 
2०:-.०:-2०५००००००००४ ~ 


८2५८ 


eR 


BIR SE RN SNES SR 


Se 
masta 


wos 


SB? 


८:22: 
ma en 


४ Ree en 
८22222:0:% 
Dae 


me 
en 
22 Re 
SEARS 


It was natural that in a debate of this kind much should be said about poverty. Our 
poverty is long standing. I have not been awakened to it today as some Members of the 
Opposition are apt to say from time to time. If I may say with some hesitation and deep 
humility, it was because of this awakening and concern that my family decided to give up 
most of its property and to change its entire mode of life in 1920-21. 


Much has been achieved since Independence. There is no doubt that today a larger 
number of people are better dressed and better fed than before. How do we judge the 
poverty of any area ? We should judge it against the conditions which existed in that 
particular area earlier on. Is it the claim of any hon. Member that less has been done, for 
example, in Rajasthan or in Madhya Pradesh or in Orissa in the last few years than was 
done, say, in a century of princely rule ? Yet the fact of poverty remains and vast numbers 
do lack their basic requirements. Also the needs of our people are increasing and will 
continue to increase as our development plans go ahead. 


The hon. Member, Shn Vajpayee, spoke tauntingly to what he called our “war on 
poverty.” But, actually, this was the title of his manifesto. Compared to the glitter of the 
Jan Sangh manifesto, our own was matter-of-fact and down-to-earth. 


It was remarkable how our people showed their keen sense of discrimination when 
they refused to be attracted by the stalking golden deer, the Swarna Mrig, of the Jan Sangh 


or to beled astray by the outworn economic theories of the Swatantra Party, dressed up in 
elegant phrases. 


ee मं eK ak ef 


I would remind the hon. Member that we had a number of Elections before this General 
Election*. Some of our candidates had the bicycle as their symbol, some had the coconut 
tree or other cmblems and yet all these or most of them won in the elections. And I should 
like to say also that something rather good happened because we took the cow and the 
calf as our symbol. It was proved that it was not a religious symbol, that it was a symbol 
of the prosperity of village and town people. It is after seeing the manifestoes and the 
performances of the various parties that the people have taken their decision. 


The hon. Member who sits opposite me, Shri Gopalan, in his long indictment of 
Governmental policies, referred to some central projects. There was not, and there cannot 
be any discrimination or deliberate neglect of Kerala which is one of the most beautiful 
parts of our country and one which has had many problems. It is true that the Precision 
Instruments Plant and the Phyto Chemicals Plant, which we had proposed to set up there 
were not taken up for implementation. But this is because, on re-assessment, demands for 
the products of these Plants were not found to be good. 


Government have to make a constant reappraisal of industrial and other programmes, 
and have to adapt them to the needs of the situation. 


* Replying to Shri Atal Bibari Vajpayee's remark : “They were most attracted by the cow and calf.” 


SEAT: 
(2 2222 22222: 
Ae aren 
Suis “ Sooner er 


as 
LMP oa ata RSP Ar UA 14 4 apt a CDA ASAE ALA prota Mt) आग शी Pe! PIM ASLAN ० 22011 बार PME Me tO 


Pe ae ee ee ae 


However, in regard to the Cochin Shipyard, Shri Gopalan has failed to keep up with 
recent developments. An agreement has already been signed with Mitsubishi Heavy 
Industries, covering the preparation of designs for the Shipyard and for Consultancy 
Services for its construction. The project will be completed in five years and is estimated 
to cost Rs. 45.40 crore. Rs. 3 crore have been provided in the 1971-72 interim Budget. 


Shri Indrajit Gupta referred to Monopoly Houses and the issue of new licences to some 
of them, which also has been agitating some of our own Members on this side. Neither 
the Monopolies and the Restrictive Trade Practices Act nor the Industrial Licensing Policy 
rules out the grant of new licences to Business Houses. They only define the limits and 
conditions, subject to which these Houses would be allowed to expand further. 


The decisions taken in individual cases do not involve any deviation from the policies 
which have been clearly spelt out. These policies seek to reconcile a number of objectives— 
the promotion of industrial growth and employment opportunities, accelerated development 
of backward regions, expeditious development of core industries and the attainment of 
economic self-reliance. 


It would not be fair to view the grant of licences to the larger industrial houses in 
isolation from other decisions of the Government, for instance, the reservation of larger 
ficlds for small-scale industries, the exclusion of larger industrial houses from the middle 
sector and the expansion of the public sector as well as other policies designed to broaden 
the base of entrepreneurship. 


A young Member from our side, Shri A.C. George made several concrete suggestions, 
in particular, regarding Housing in urban areas. We have already made a beginning in this 
direction with the setting up of the Housing and Urban Development Finance Corporation. 
We shall endeavour to expand the role of the Corporation in the next two to three years. 


There is also need for a new look at rural housing. I am sorry Shri Piloo Mody, our 
Architect Member, is not present, because I think that it would be very useful if our 
architects would give thought to new and inexpensive designs for rural housing, which 
would make the best use of locally available materials. 


I was looking forward to hearing Shri Shyamnandan Mishra and was indeed 
disappointed that he surrendered his time to another Member of his party... 


Hokok ate a ae a at भर 


I know that planning has lost its luster since his* connection with it has ceased. 


I now come to the amendments of which there is a large crop. Some of these refer to 
rising prices and the need to stabilise them. The House knows how deeply concerned I 
am, and indeed all my colleagues in Government are, about this matter, and that we are 
deeply aware of the consequences which would follow if price stability is seriously 


* Shri Shyamnandan Mishra. 


BeBe Ore ote BOE 
ORE ee 
He REE 
Ua eget 


0९०० व] 


at, 
5 
x 
eee 
९५: 
nese 
ere 
21272 
Be 
ate 7 
a 22 
[4७५ “ 
ie 
fetes 
2 
en 
ane 
7. 
cee 
a \) 
sere 
४३:५४ 
6022 
; 22: 
ORY 
(522: 
1! Ae 
se 
mee 
10 
5 ce 
ts 2222 २ 
nus 
ae 
KS 
ot 
522 
९१८१० 
(०००९५ 
५१०८ 
eee 
ae tH 
(1०८४ 
५१४४४ 
५” 
Sh 
at 
Rise, 
sees 
i 
४, 
ioe 
४१८: 
0५.८८ 
telat 
ae 
5 
५९, 
१, 
।( 
४ 
है 
525 
५५४९ 
O 
हे १६ 
८12; 
Oo 
११०९. 
+ 8. 
८४: 
ne 
on 
nde 


: 
2222 
(8५ छा, 
ss 
४2 
eth 
००0 
९३९० 


५०: 
२८: 
popes 


Renae 
ee 
weet 


7०२५७००००:०४ 
20०१७ 


Marat बम ग sear deat rc racer 
५2:८5 he < - 
ROR SR ic aR 

22252: % 20:34 RRS 


wT ae 
EES | 


impaired. Much of the increase in prices during the past year is because of the failure to 
raise the’production of commercial crops. 


Foodgrain prices have, on the other hand, been generally quiet, reflecting our success 
in raising production in that area. Hon. Members know that because of the drought, we 
have had to bend all our energies to increase the production of foodgrains. There is no 
doubt that during this period the other crops did not get the kind of boost or help which 
they should have. 


I think the Minister of Food has already told the House that we intend to adopt a range 
of measures to raise the productivity of such crops. We also intend to curb speculation. 


In an inter-dependent economy, a price rise in one sector soon spreads to other sectors. 
For example, the rise in the prices of industrial raw materials pushes up the prices of 
manufactures which in turn leads to the demand for higher prices for farm products. The 
wage cost also tends to rise. Thus, what is called for today is a certain restraint and 
willingness on the part of the community not to press for short-term compensations. 


We intend to protect the interests of the weaker sections who suffer most when prices 
go up. The public distribution system 18 aimed to serve this purpose. 


Iam sure hon. Members will appreciate that a part of the price increase in recent years 
was due to our anxiety to assure the farmers are reasonable price for their products. 
However, it is important that in this process, the interests of the small farmers, the landless 
labourers and the other poor people who live on the land and who do not have surplus 
products to sell are not harmed. It is for the Government to reconcile the interests of 
consumers and those of producers. Only in this way, price policy can be successful. We 
must work for the genuine welfare of farmers, and at the same time we must also ensure 
that certain sections do not unreasonably exploit the rest of the community. The welfare 
of the nation as a whole must at all times take precedence over that of an individual 
segment. We should remember that other countries including many developed countnes 
are also experiencing rising prices in varying degrees. Of course, there are greater 
difficulties for us because of the lower standard of living of so many of our people. But 
some pressure on prices is almost inescapable in a growing economy. 


We have to recognise and accept the fact that in a developing country such as ours, 
which must increase the pace of investment, we cannot afford to adopt a deilationary policy 
of budgetary surpluses coupled with measures for keeping the level of investments low. 


So while implementing a plan which is large in relation to our resources but not large 
enough for the needs of our people, some upward pressure on prices is inevitable, I would, 
therefore, request hon. Members not to politicise this issue excessively. 


Another matter which came up for criticism was the grant of industrial licences in the 
period immediately preceding the general election. My colleague, the Minister of Industrial 
Development has already answered a specific question on this subject. Nothing was done 
in a hurry or outside normal procedure, and it does not seem strange to me that we should 


2225 20000 SERED EU SBE ACU ee a 

at ०7० ८/ ००००१ ४०८ ८४० 1222 2, CEES: 22% ० ee rita 2272 Bees, Be 
22222 LOE BSE SMEAR ESE ee es 22% 22220 27. RCTs Cama Toe 
५2:23: Bes Co an A LENS SIDI FEE LIE CO RIALS ODS LITLE: My OER 


be accused of not holding up licences which had been cleared in the normal course, and 
at the same time be blamed for delaying them. 


Even during the election, when I was in Bombay, the complaint was made that the 
country’s economy was suffering because Government was not granting licences fast 
enough. So obviously, this complaint is part of the smear compaign of the so-called grand 
alliance before, during and after the poll. 


There was an increase in the number of applications for industrial licences in the 
calendar year, 1970, reflecting an improvement in the industrial climate. This is as it should 
be. After June, 1970, when the Monopolies and Restrictive Trade Practices Act (MRTP) 
came into force, Government had to evolve policies and procedures to harmonise the 
objectives of industrial licensing with those of the MRTP Act. After Government has laid 
down the guidelines for the disposal of applications attracting the provisions of the MRTP 
Act, applications falling within that category were considered for further processing. The 
formalities and procedures followed by the Government for the grant of licences during 
the period preceding the poll were exactly the same as those that were being followed 
earlier, and, as I just said, there was no relaxation of any accepted policy or normal standards 
of scrutiny in regard to these licences. 


The other amendments seek to emphasise the need for the nationalisation of the 
remaining banks, of foreign trade, of major and basic industries and so on. Last year, I 
had explained Government’s general approach to these and similar demands for 
nationalisation. Government are not afraid of nationalisation. At the same time, they do 
not consider nationalisation to be an independent objective by itself. Decisions on 
nationalisation must fit into the general scheme of priorities of our economic programme. 


The direction in which the Government want to proceed is quite clear. We visualise a 
growing and dominant role for the public sector. We want the public sector to be able to 
influence and control the pace and direction of investment. Our available resources should 
be deployed in the best possible manner. Any proposal for the nationalisation of an industry 
or activity must be subjected to two tests : firstly, is 1t necessary from the point of view of 
enabling the public sector to attain a dominant role and to occupy a key position in the 
economy ; and secondly, does it further our social objectives ? The nationalisation of banks 
satisfied both these tests. 


Similarly, when we find any industry or unit operating in a manner which is detrimental 
to our national interests, we shall certainly not hesitate to take it over. But we should not 
be deflected from our priorities. Our priorities, which are known to the House—but I would 
like to reiterate them-are at present the acceleration of development and the augmentation 
of employment. Whatever resources we can mobilise, should be canalised as far as possible 
into further investment in new, productive activities in the public sector. In the next few 
years, we Shall be engaged in a relentless battle against poverty. We should not dissipate 
our energies and our resources in diversionary battles which can only make a marginal 
contribution to victory on the main front. 


71 


PES 
४2% (04012 


Ps 


रा 
१, 

ore 

ras 
377०८. 
vena a 

laid ae 
t) Aram ad 
ve ce 
x 

Me ror 
aay 
रे एल 
था 
Be 3 
ise es 
(274 
रा 
sess 
‘ ra 
NE, 
a 4104] 
22200: 22 
§ Jae 
eae 
ite od. 
2 ay a 
” oe 
inten 
220 een! 
222 Pa 
Y ८7 
ate tes 
222 
oe, eo 
a ene 
£:22772:8॥ 
222 ih 
sags 

ar 

Coutts 
रा tx 
ne fd 

2 4 
LW) 
2325: Sa 
ws a 
रा =o a 
one (2722२ “2 
2:21 
” iy 

w. ae 
, a 
50200. 
a 

v 

Ay ns 

४८३ 

oe 

ua ae 
Be a 
. 0८:५5: 
7 Can ve 
aE 
. eae 
meee: 
ee 
०८५१६: 
ara 3 
eid 

र Ser 
Bony Cmte 
117004/7% व 
er, 

eeu: 
a, 

ead 

os 
Re 
ar 

i, 

a 


“ae 
~~ 


“न टपटबटगान 
TTR 
4 aes 


The subject which was mentioned by almost every speaker, one which has caused 
deeper and more widespread concern than any other problem facing our economy today 
is the question of unemployment. This problem is not unique to India. The U.K., U.S.A., 
and other developed countries are all facing similar situations. It is not difficult to 
understand why unemployment has assumed such large dimensions in India. Firm figures 
are available only in respect of the organised sector, and in this sector the rate of growth 
of employment opportunities was somewhat satisfactory in the first half of the “sixties 
being 6.8 per cent in the Third Plan period. But this rate started declining in 1964-65 and 
by 1966-67 has slumped to 0.8 per cent. During 1967-68 it was almost negligible. The 
slow growth of the economy particularly in the industrial sector was responsible for the 
sharp decline in employment opportunities. 


In his speech, Hon’ble Mr. Krishna Menon quoted statistics of unemployment. In India 
the most serious part of the problem is not open and whaletime unemployment, but under 
employment, and this is why it 1s difficult to quantify the problem. Hon. Members know 
that sometime ago the report of an expert committee, presided over by Prof. Dantwala, 
pointed out this fact. In the absence of reliable figures, we should not allow ourselves to 
be intimidated by uncertain statistics. 


I entirely share the concern voiced in this House and outside about this problem. To 
keep human beings idle is to waste a nch national resource, and I am particularly conscious 
of the serious hardships which our educated young people are suffering. Many of them 
come to sec me. 


We have mentioned the word “alienation” in the President’s Address. Perhaps the most 
dangerous of all alienations is the feeling of disenchantment among able-bodied young 
men and women who are deprived of productive employment. This is an economic tragedy 
and also a human tragedy. We cannot preach about our concern for our fellow-men, as I 
believe a young friend pointed out yesterday, if our social arrangements have no place for 
them. 


People get alienated if they do not feel wanted. But there are other kinds of alienated: 


individuals also—-the Naxalite type for whom patriotism is a bourgeois enthusiasm, the 
superficial cosmopolitans who are too cynical to appreciate the qualities of our people and 
our country. There are also some of our highly trained specialists and others who would 
rather opt for better opportunities and higher salaries abroad then face hardship and 
frustration in creating better conditions for their own descendants. I sincerely hope that in 
the end India will win back to its fold all those who are feeling frustrated or alienated. 


Hon. Members have referred to the need for allowances for those who are unemployed. 
I do not think that subsistence allowance to the unemployed is an answer to the travails of 
our youth. Let us not make these young people pensioners. Let us not accustom them to 
doles or subsidies. Let us try to provide them with opportunities in which they can find 
fulfilment. For this we should mobilise all the resources we can and raise the level of 
investment in the public as well as the private sector. The reappraisal of the Plan should 
give our development programmes and employment bias. A climb back to the ascending 


गिरी aa 


22:22 ५22 42 a 2222 
I, 


22:22 222 22292 (९ oO ae 
४ ८४, a 22 or 
"22. 4 a Pe 4) (३१०१४ 22 22८ 
* डॉट a fer 
0 कक LAER Oe 2222 ० 22222 
पड: बट ok oat pe ०८०० aes yo late Pot 2222 y (2 ८८८ 
A! Aer ree te SAA o "77 


Merete ७० 

2 270220 7 72222 72222 0427 ९2०८८ 
ROA NR MONT No Rees 
SESS < ५ RSS 


3 
12272) 


८ ८ नननना टन पकवान ननकनन 
०५४१४ जया जब जन 
SS SNe eS 
TN > पे 00:26 ERE 


eee 
TS 


Maan aaa बचा 
hcecettetetetatetanetaretere® 
30227: 555 


रन ज०0 ००० 
NSE Oe 
< Ste eo! 
FREES 


SSIES 


mS 


natant 
रब ४ 
eee 


RR ae 
Sar CRN SCENES 
अर 


path of economic growth and vigorous implementation of the Plan will contribute to a 
significant expansion of productive employment on a durable basis. 


But I am not one of those who subscribe fully to the view that if we take care of the 
Plan, employment will take care of itself. I am fully aware that when unemployment is 
acute and widespread, we must have special measures to deal with it. Programmes with 
high employment potential have to be indentified and given a special push. Quite a few 
schemes of this nature have been incorporated in the Fourth Plan as recast and presented 
to this House in last May. The House is aware of the details of the schemes relating to 
small farmers, sub-marginal farmers, landless labourers and rural workers in areas prone 
to drought. These schemes have already been taken up for implementation in large tracts 
distributed all over the country, although they may take sometime to gather momentum. 
A provision of Rs. 235 crore is envisaged for these special programmes during the Plan 
period. Additionally, projects for small farmers and agricultural labour will receive support 
from financial institutions to the extent of about Rs. 300 crore. Similarly the total financial 
support for dry land farming programmes is expected to be about Rs. 150 crore. In the 
Budget presented last week the Finance Minister has indicated a provision of Rs. 50 crore 
for a crash scheme for rural employment. 


I know that almost every hon. Member has taken exception to the smallness of this 
sum. I should like to remind them that the programmes which come under this crash 
programme are only supplementary to other programmes to create additional employment. 
Employment opportunities are provided by the entire economic system and you cannot 
put the whole of the problem on one side and only one of the several measures evolved to 
solve it, on the other. I have announced in my public speeches that the programme would 
start soon. I should like to tell Shri Vajpayee, because he felt that the entire Rs. 50 crore 
would be spent on the mere planning of it, that all the planning and other preparations 
have been completed and the programme, if it has not already started, would do so in a 
few days. We want to make this programme the nucleus of a more comprehensive 
programme. These programmes are oriented to create more employment in the rural areas. 
But the works which are envisaged will also absorb the educated such as technicians, 
engineers and other educated unemployed. 


But we are conscious that there 1s need to devise yet other programmes to absorb the 
educated unemployed in larger numbers. For this, Plan outlays must be increased in sectors 
such as education and public health. Unfortunately most Members demand big prestigious 
projects for their areas instead of helping to strengthen these other services. A higher rate 
of industrial growth through the maximisation of investment in the public and private 
sectors is by far the most effective answer to the question of educated unemployment. The 
President’s Address has indicated that we propose to set up task forces to identify the various 
impediments to the expansion of industrial production and to propose suitable changes in 
policies and procedures. 


This leads me to another related issue of national importance, and that is the question 


of higher levels of investment, whether in public or the private sector. This can come about oS 
only as a result of an all-round improvement in efficiency and productivity. Concern for ae 

हक erence co ipa So ae aR 72% 

- 


higher productivity should become almost an obsession with those engaged in productive 
processes, whether they are managers or workers, because only by augmenting productivity 
can we enlarge the surpluses available for investment. This 18 an obligation which the 
employed owe to those who are yet to be employed. The employed should not become an 
instrument for the exploitation of the unemployed. As my colleague, Shri Khadilkar, has 
already told this House, Government propose to hold discussions with trade union leaders 
as well as representatives of management on these and other issues to seek their co operation 


and support in ensuring increasingly higher levels of employment at rising levels of 
productivity. 


Several hon. Members have spoken about the law and order problem in West Bengal. 
Our youngest Member, Shri P.R. Das Munshi, made a moving speech based on personal 
experience. It brought home to me once again and to us all the difficulties of young people 
and the awesome character of political violence in that State. The Government are 
determined to curb violence, whoever is responsible and whatever the motive behind it. 


Shn Gopalan took umbrage at the use of the expression “politics of murder’. But I am 
sure we will all agree that murder cannot be sanctioned or sanctified even though some 
have made it their political creed. 


aK I मं ae ae ae aK मंच जे 


We have been taking all appropriate steps to stop this menace and will continue to do 
so. The situation in West Bengal cannot be dealt with by the police alone. We are conscious 
of this and Members also have drawn our attention. Other measures are needed and they 
are not being neglected. 


The greatest emphasis has been laid on the revival of Calcutta and its surroundings. 
The development of other parts of Bengal is equally important. 


During President’s rule, immediate steps were taken to bring land reform legislation 


more in tune with the aspirations of the people and the requirements of social justice. We’ 


are urging other State Governments to adopt similar legislation. 


Some hon. Members have referred in their speeches as well as in the amendments to 
the question of Centre-State relations, particularly the financial aspects of this relationship. 
But I was surprised that these issues should be raised by those who call themselves Marxists 
who, I thought, were the votaries of centralism. It is because they are no longer an all- 
India party that their mental horizons have been scaled down to a provincial level ? Or 
perhaps a weak centre fits in with their present strategy ? 


It is not for me to say what is good for them, but when votaries of Marx constrict their 
mental horizon, there does seem something wrong in their understanding of a universalist 
methodology. (/nterruption) 


a akc ak ae ok मर afer a 


oo 640) 7 । ca 222 ४ 222 2:22 ae Af 4 Pf, Fi ४2४7 ya) Vitek, a as 

BOI SIL SAE TK PEE 
‘ miley cena. 2222 27:22 
ae pea on 

id | 


ie 
, 


4, ee a 22८ ८८ ८22: 22:22: दम 
Shad see ea 


TA a I CNOA ERE 
2:००००००००० ८०५०६: Since ००० 
eae COR 
पाप eae peal mere eee . ०,4%३०५:०:४:०४०:६४२०००३६ ares 
32 :२7207:%2 2 Senn ORNS RR ORI RIE ORNS 


22225 


22202: 
ee 


SS 
55 


RD 
22022 
Mr रपट 


SES RRA es 
oe Sas 22028 


oS 
RST 


3 


- 2५28 3 
Sep 
२०८० 


SERN 
SEE 
1२४० 


ne 
"anatase! 


The issues pertaining to Centre-State relations have been debated at length on many 
occasions in this House ; also in the meetings of the National Development Council and 
in the meetings of State Chief Ministers and other Ministers. They have only recently been 
studied comprehensively by expert bodies such as the Finance Commission and the 
Administrative Reforms Commission. 


I think our Constitution has visualised fruitful roles for the Centre and for the States 
in its scheme for distribution of powers. It embodies financial and other provisions to deal 
with problems as they arise. In particular, the Constitution provides for a periodical review 
of the financial relations between the Centre and the States through the Finance 
Commission, which is an autonomous statutory body. Under the awards of the Commission, 
substantial resources are being transferred from the Centre to the States. 


Hon. Members are aware that a successful federation cannot exist merely on rules. It 
can be successfully only if there is full cooperation. A number of difficult financial issues 
do arise from time to time and from all States, regardless of the party or parties which 
happen to form the Government at that 016. So, the problem 1s not one of unwillingness 
or discrimination on the part of the Centre but rather of how the Centre and the States can 
jointly endeavour to raise the maximum possible resources to meet at least the minimum 
needs of the people. I should like to emphasise that all those interested in national unity 
and welfare should look upon the relationship between the Centre and the States as one 
not of confrontation but of partnership and cooperation in the great task of nation-building. 


The President has invited the members of the House to lend their support to the efforts 
which we have outlined. I repeat that invitation. Nobody says that the task is easy, but 
neither should anybody say that this Government and this House held back from this great 
endeavour. Common concern for the country is also a part of democracy. Let us certainly 
criticise one another in the House and outside, but let us also work together for a common 
purpose, for the all round growth and prosperity of our country. 


2c मै akc He मर मर a 4c मैप 


I purposely did not refer to East Bengal in my speech.* Hon. Members know of our 
derp concern. I do not know what move I can say. These are matters which, as I have 
remarked on an earlier occasion, we can discuss with the leaders of the 
opposition...(/nterruptions). Well, as I said, it is a little difficult to discuss these matters 
in the House. Hon. Members have most of the information as it has appeared in the 
newspapers. Fighting 1s going on there; the people are suffering great hardship; we are 
aware of all these matters and we had expressed our sentiments firmly and in a dignified 
manner, in the Resolution which was passed unanimously in the House. If hon. Members 
would like any special information, I am willing to meet leaders of the opposition, as we 
did before, and answer any questions they would like to ask. 


* Responding to the demand of some Members to say something about East Bengal. 


xe 


aren 
ss ee S 2 oS a 


a 


& 


SRO 


oN 28 
22008 


ही 


Sate 
22222: 


८०5 


SON 


Leta AL NEW 
RENN Nee 


wv a 
22293 ees ons 


< ०12 


1 ee 


ERE, ‘ 
कप कट बाग 
See dette 


ral 
neg 
ee 


RS : 


a. 
ae 


SEs 
22002: as 


OES 


22222: 
me 22525: 


oie oe 3 


a 
Barocas 
eee ae 
Nea Rang 


(५ 
Soest 
IND 


PEAT 
Bone eae 
22207 :250:0:% 
४०, का 


AD 
Soe 
22020: 


बीज ०० ०० 
Rt ce 


= 
aS 


न ज1० ०१००० 
ne Sos 
२5326 


फट 


Measures to Eradicate Poverty“ 


जी, Deputy Chairman, Sir, a number of my friends expressed their views here and I 
have been quite attentive to them. All have perceived that after this election, a new scenario 
has been heralded in our country. People have put forward their verdict in a very clear 
way. hey faced a number of hardships, sometimes they were subjected to atrocities also. 
However, acting with courage, they gave their mandate decisively and made it clear as to 
what programmes they considered to be beneficial for themselves. 


As one of my friends*** has just told, some persons expected the election results 
otherwise. But I for one did not even think of the election results to be otherwise. Not 
because we wished to win; not because we were sure of our victory, but because we felt 
the nerves of the masses. We knew their aspirations. We knew it well that we could gain 
strength only by the path that leads to the fulfilment of their basic requirements to lead a 
respectful life. That 1s what the election results have proved to be. The call of India’s masses 
has echoed not only in this country, but also in the whole world, and some of the outsiders 
who did not have faith in our policies—perhaps they may not be having even today, they 
heard and realised the call of the teeming millions of the country. However, unfortunately, 
there are persons in our country who are even today bent upon not to lend credence to 
that call. I do not know whether they are interested to hear it or have kept their ears closed. 
Some speeches made here are indicative of the fact as to how blind they are even now to 
the mood of the masses. 


The President has once again drawn our attention to the expectations of the masses 
and has indicated the direction to be followed, and types of programmes to be implemented 
by us. Evidently, he has not gone in details of all the programmes, nor was it proper on 
the occasion like this. Time was yet another limiting factor to go into such details. However, 
he made mention of some of the programmes and also indicated that the Government would 
take full-hearted steps to implement the election manifesto or programmes of the party... 


Our hon. Member Ganga Babu has opined that the use of money power in our elections 
has been increasing day by day. I fully share his view that it is not a thing to be cherished. 
However, I would like to remind him that those who have spent money most have lost the 
elections. Money could not make them win. In order to support my point, I would like to 
cite a case of one of the members of our party who has been elected from Bihar. It was a 


* Replying to the debate on the Motion of Thanks on the President's Address, R.S. Deb., 5 April, 1971, cc. 242-58. 
1 Original speech in Hindi. 
*** Shri Hamid Ali Schamnad. 


eget: :% a4 hiss 8 WE os 2222 Bee EG tye 
: or 22222 22:22 

22222: SGA oe 
Os PL IGLED LIAISE OL 


76 


constituency regarding which our all party men had stated that we would not win there. 
They had even asked to surrender this constituency to some other party. But I said that we 
must allow one or the other partyman to fight election 1n that constituency even if he might 
lose his deposit. He told me that the more money his opponent spent and the more invectives 
he hurled upon me, the more votes he lost. Our candidate won the election with comfortable 
majority in that constituency. As such, it is good not to spend money in elections, but it is 
even better that in this election masses were not swayed away by money power while 
exercising their franchise. 


AHO ae ae ok a ah of 


One who moves around in Delhi shall find that the poor of this place lent their support 
to us not only by voting in our favour but also by giving money needed for elections, so 
much so that the taxiwallas gave their taxies and bore the cost of petrol tool. So was the 
case with TSR wallas who paid for petrol also. 


ae मंद अर He ake मर ae मंद ak 


It is not a hearsay. They have told me exclusively. 


mK ac I अर मंद भर Hie मर ae 


It is true that some difficulties were faced during the elections. Sometimes difficulties 
do come in the way of each and every election—atrocities are committed, and these have 
happened during this election as well...But, we have to see that such things do not occur 
again. And this is possible only when- we get rid of casteism and communalism from our 
elections; from our national life, and that is our endeavour. We know that we have not 
been able to achieve complete success in this regard. However, this cannot be achieved 
only by the Government, or by an individual or by an officer. It is a national issue which 
requires the cooperation of all parties, all hon. Members and of private institutions or 
individuals. All should face this problem jointly and only then we can get success in this 
regard. 


aie aK > aK Kc ok WK aK अर 


This time at certain places the caste factor has influenced the voting behaviour, but it 
failed at most of the places. People voted by ignoring the caste. Hence, these elections 
have been completed in this way and our way is open to go ahead. I do not see these 
elections only from the victory point of view, but a door to socialism has been opened...The 
path is lying before us. I never made any promise in any of my speeches. Whatever the 
promises were there, all were mentioned in our manifesto. Our manifesto contained our 
action plan, but I never said in any speech that the persons voting us would be given this 
or that facility or their problems would be solved soon. In every speech, I have said that 
since the path is very long and is full of difficulties, full of risks and dangers, therefore, 
whosoever is ready to face these problems, to face these dangers, should give us vote, 
cooperate with us as had been done during the freedom movement. People voted for us, 
but we do not take it as our victory. However, this much we do agree that the people are 


मर ot ox Hd gp ne gO RMP ND T oe AEN 5: ०, ५० व ुब ता 
2720 20%: CNEL 27277 776 ४, ) 2: cies aaa Lianne aN 
(० BERS oe 2०४०, 
25००5 
te 


77 


2०५०००००१०००८१००२००००००:० 


2002:7:5:270:% 
टिक पा चाप धन एण पर श ए 
"a te 


See eee 
mteenssesas . ०2722: 
Seca ASR = = 


Dens 
22 


0 
Sines 
222 ;: 
ass (१ 
३०००९ 
ee 
» 
42९९ 
5, 
%) he 
4022 0 
ts 
12०5 os oe 


our strength. They expect that we should move towards socialism step by step, but as soon 
as it may be possible. So, this is a challenge before us. Whosoever has taken the 
responsibility in his hands should do the duty of a responsible person to fulfil the same, 
irrespective of his being in majority or in minority.... 


... However, I would like to say that it requires the cooperation and support of the 
people, and other political parties should also give their support and cooperation to us. 
Hon’ble Tyagiji is aware that we have always welcomed their cooperation and support. 
We have always tried to negotiate with the leaders of opposition parties on every issue 
and would make an attempt to work together as far as possible. Even today, this 1s our 
endeavour and within few days, we have met with the Icaders of the opposition parties 
thrice to solve the arising problems. And, I would like to appreciate their wisdom and full 
Co-Operation given to us in solving the difficult problem of East Bengal. 


One of our hon. Members, perhaps Shri Kaul, said that so far we had only made long 
term programmes, and now it was high time that we should see what was afoot. This is 
not absolutely correct. If we do not formulate long term programmes, things would go 
beyond reach and future requirements may not be fulfilled. You must be knowing that 
whatever difficulties we face in the field of industry or in housing programmes or in setting 
up more schools, or godowns for foodgrains, can simply be attributed to the scarcity of 
iron and steel. If you say that we should not give any attention to the problems related to 
the scarcity of steel, then it cannot do any good to the nation. It is essential to produce 
these things even if we have to face some hardships as these are the bases of our economy. 
For instance, we can take the example of a school going child. We send our child to school 
but he does not start earning immediately but we know that it is necessary to educate him 
irrespective of the time it may take. Thus there are some basic things which a nation cannot 
ignore but at the same time we have to give duc attention to the programmes relating to 
primary education, solving the problem of unemployment, removing slums in the citics 
and constructing houses in the rural as well as urban areas. This will serve two purposes. 
It will fulfil the needs of people and will create job opportunities for unemployed people. 
This 1s our earnest effort. Some Members mentioned that the amount of Rs. 50. crore, 


earmarked for this purpose, is not adequate. I agree with them but this is not the whole 
programme. 


We have tc tackle the problem of unemployment keeping in view the overall picture 
of our economy. [t can be solved only when our economy 18 strengthened. This programme 
is a little effort in that direction. We have to strengthen this programme. But it should not 
be mistaken that this 1s the whole programme. In fact we have to expand this programme 
and we should also contemplate about other programmes. But at the same time we should 
also keep an eye on other programmes and should make necessary changes in them. 


An hon. Member of D MLK. party raised a question that we should not use symbols in 
the elections. But he must know that we are also moving ahead in this direction. In the 
past, it used to be the symbol only and now symbol and name of the candidate are used, 
but we hope that with the increasing literacy there will be no need of symbol and only the 
name of the candidate will be there. 


He quiet often raises a very important question about Centre-State relations. There are 
a number of rules laid down in this regard in our present Constitution and many more are 
likely to be framed in future. But rules are immaterial in this regard. It depends upon mutual 
cooperation and friendly attitude. If there are cordial relations between the two, work will 
go on smoothly but if not, rules are of no use. 


We see that rules often become binding and produce hindrances instead of helping out 
and opening new ways, because at the time of framing them no one knows what problem 
can arise after five years. Nobody can foresee financial problems. I think if we take up 
the issues of our States from national point of view then there cannot be any difficulty in 
working together. In fact, problems exist because of the resource crunch. There is scarcity 
of everything, scarcity of finances, scarcity of stee] and scarcity of other necessary things. 
That is why all the States get dissatisfied with the shares they get and every State 
Government thinks that injustice is being done to it. Even the prosperous and developed 
States think so. Therefore, if we work together for the development of the country every 
State would get an adequate share. 


Today the main problems which we are facing are of unemployment and rising prices. 
There are some reasons for unemployment as I said a little while ago. The unemployment 
had increased because some industrial units were closed down during the past few years. 
Now, we hope that our new programmes and schemes will solve out this problem gradually. 
It cannot be done overnight. Now we think that whatever programmes and schemes we 
take up, we should see how many jobs can be created for the illiterate masses in rural 
areas and educated youths. The formulation of these programmes 1s specially aimed at 
benefitting small farmers living in rural areas and also who are landless. A provision of 
Rs. 235 crore has been earmarked for them. Besides, the financial institutions which provide 
loan will give a Rs. 300 crore for such small projects as also to rural labourers. A sum of 
Rs. 150 crore has been earmarked for the farmers living in the drought prone areas. All 
these programmes are just a beginning, and I hope that several other programmes will be 
formulated later on. 


Our colleague Shn Gurupadaswami mentioned about a project involving Rs. 100 crore 
but he did not say anything as to from where the money will come. It 1s easier to make a 
list of works to be done, but when there is disparity and paucity of funds, we have to assess 
which item is more important and which one 18 of lesser importance. That is what is meant 
by planning. There are a lot of things to be done but we have to see the priority of each 
work. 


Similarly, some people have said that nationalisation of banks has not benefited the 
poor at all. 1 have heard this time and again. However, these people have perhaps not taken 
into account the benefits being made available by banks to common man. Small farmers 
who could never utilise bank facilities in the past, are now deriving good benefits. They 
are, of course, not getting as much benefit as they deserve, but the point is that it 1s not 
possible to extend these benefits to each and every person. Moreover, I agree that the 
process needs to be simplified further. Nevertheless, our approach has been in a night 
direction and if so far there has been any slackness in it, the right course for us should be 
to speed up the process rather than to change our approach. 


SERENE 
7077: oer sen eee TEN 
SN 


SRS oar teem 


A aad 


, Several of our colleagues have again raised the issue as to why the foreign banks and 
other remaining Indian banks, operating here are not nationalised. Now I would not like 
to take up this issue because there has already been a detailed discussion in the House on 
this matter on two occasions and I have already given my reply. 


I was much surprised to notice that some of our hon. colleagues are perhaps under the 
impression that people will believe everything that is uttered here. One of our colleagues 
belonging to the C.P.M. said that the Government of India was using Naxalites. I think 
that nobody either inside the House or outside will ever believe such things. 


Shri Ahmad and others also did speak on the land reform programme. You all are aware 
that the Government attach much importance to it. I could not make out as to what was 
the opinion of our colleague regarding the provisions in the land reform programme. There 
is no denying the fact that several atrocities have been committed on smail and landless 
farmers belonging to Scheduled Castes communities and on those who live in rural areas. 
It is continuing even now. I am sorry to say that no State is exception to such incident. If 
anyone Says that his State is an exception to it, then he is not saying the truth. If any progress 
has to be made 1n villages, the first thing that 1s required is to undertake land reforms there. 
The land ceiling is not the only issue involved in it, there are several other issues also. 
The Government is considering whether they are owners of land or not, and there are several 
other things as well. 


ek ok 2 3 ak 2 मं 


Something has been done in West Bengal. Chief Ministers of other States are also trying 
to make such rules. I hope that all other political parties here will take interest in initiating 
these reforms in their respective States at the earliest. 


We are often compared with Japan and other developed countries. Japan is a small 
country. Two years back it celebrated the centenary of achieving cent percent literacy. 
Comprising our progress achieved in the last 20 years with that of Japan will not be fair. 
The condition prevalent there is totally different. Culture of the people of Japan is entirely 
different. Whatever progress has been made over, that can mainly be attributed to the land 
reforms because when American troops were stationed there, the first thing they did was 
that they forcibly implemented some land reforms there. Iran, where there is no socialistic 
pattern of Government, has also done a commendable job in the field of land reforms. It 
has so far not been possible to provide any benefit to rural masses in any part of the world 
without simultaneously implementing land reforms. 


It is natural for every one to be worried about the rising prices. The Government of 
India is also very much concemed about it, and all efforts are being made to contain it. 
Ours being a developing economy, prices are bound to go up slightly. In this context if we 
take into account the condition prevailing in other countries we can hardly find a country 
where the prices had not gone up during the past three years. May be, it is England, America 
or any other European country. The prices have been increasing everywhere in the poor 
countries also. It has posed a heavy burden on us as well, because poverty is more acute 


A 


here and people have no strength to bear this burden. So we should try our best in this 
regard, and we are considering on this line sincerely. 


Industrial peace is very essential here. We are making efforts to hold talks with the 
management and leaders of Trade Unions so as to come at some agreement. This agreement 
should be based on production. At the same time we should see that justice is done to the 
labourers. It should also be our bounden duty to ensure their contribution in production to 
improve Country’s wealth. If we cooperate in this way, we can change the industrial picture 
of the country. 1 never said that poverty will be eradicated soon or it will disappear by 
magic. Nobody understands it. I also did not say that we alone can eradicate poverty. I 
have always said in this august House and at other places that it is a national problem and 
we welcome all of you to come forward and help in eradicating this problem. The problem 
of poverty did not come up today. No particular party is responsible for this. It is a 
prolonged malady of the country. This programme is placed before the country. If the people 
march ahead with this programme thinking it as their own work, then the poverty could 
be eradicated soon. Even today, I make an appeal to all of you to accept this programme 
and to cooperate in this regard so that we could complete such a big task. It is the duty of 
opposition to oppose this work and we welcome their views if they point out our mistakes 
or loopholes. They can speak to the extent they want but at the same time if they try to 
solve the national problems, it can be solved early and effectively. 


The problem of East Bengal is before everyone of us. I don’t want to say anything 
about it. It is not that there 18 nothing to say about it. It is also not that I am not distressed 
and anguished over it, rather we have moved a resolution in both the Houses 1n which our 
feelings have been expressed. Now whatever we say or do should be examined with the 
views that we should not be satisfied by simply presenting our views and it should not be 
like this, but we should consider whether our action will affect them, help them or will it 
increase their problems ? We have to tackle this problem in this manner and I assure that I 
will pay attention to it. 


ae ie मर मंर 2 मर We He मर 


Arthik Swaraj* 


Mr. Chairman, may I begin by apologising because during the first day of Parliament, 
I have been exceedingly busy and it has not been possible for me to attend this debate as 
much as I should have liked to do and to hear all the hon. Members. But as the hon. 
Members know, I can listen to their speeches even in my office and a detailed note of 
every speech is given to me at the end of the day. 


May I say how sad I was to see a group of our countrymen not only showing disrespect 
to our President, but not even pausing in their demonstration to join in the tribute which 
was paid to our gallant jawans and officers ? 


ae ae oe 2 ake ok ae ak ak 


I am not an expert on Marxism. But I have read a little bit of it and I wonder whether 
these people have not strayed from the scientific humanism which Marx propagated. 


Let me deal with some of the points made here. There were charges of rigged elections 
in West Bengal. Of course, some hon. Members have already replied very forcefully and 
effectively to these charges. But I should like to draw the attention of the House to the 
fact that these charges underwent a curious enlargement as time went by. In the first 
allegation of intimidation, only 35 polling stations were mentioned; then, it became 35 
constituencies and, later still, the charge has been extended to the entire State. I am sorry 
to say that the Jana Sangh also seems suddenly to have decided to follow the same line, 
namely, that the elections have not been fair. We all know that due processes of law are 
available to test the legality of such allegations. The question is whether the hon’ble 
Members are interested in fair elections or whether they want to look like martyrs when 
the people have turned against them. 


One hon. Member—this, of course, is not a part of this debate—wrote to me about a 
particular incident which took place in West Bengal, accusing that the Police and the CRP 
were in league with my Party against the CPM and that is why when in an incident bombs 
etc. were hurled at CPM workers the Police took no action. However, when the incident 
was inquired into, a member of the same party made this statement that a police van 
fortunately came to the spot at the time of occurrence and that saved the situation from 
further deterioration. I think I should leave this matter there. 


* Replying to the debate on the Motion of Thanks on the President's Address, R.S., Deb., 20 March, 1972, cc. 160-69. 


Now, our friends opposite, of the Jana Sangh, have a kind of obsessive desire to appear 
as super-patriots, as if the rest of us are not at all concerned with the advance of the country 
or the sovereignty of the country or the well-being of the people, But, fortunately, our people 
have seen through their propaganda and they have not been taken in by them. During the 
election campaign and, I believe, in this House also, mention has been made about their 
attitude towards our unilateral offer of cease-fire. It was shocking that someone even made 
the accusation that the cease-fire offer was made at the behest of the Soviet Union. Now, 
anybody is free to say whatever he wants. But, I think, there cannot be any clearer 
demonstration of the strength, unity and nobility of the Indian nation than this offer. During 
my very extensive travels in India. I saw for myself, the thrill which the people had felt 
and that we were not only for our achievements during the last year, but also in fact that 
at the very moment of victory, we were able to rise above all petty considerations and 
were able to see the long-term interests of our country as well as of peace on the sub- 
continent. So, to state that the offer was made at the behest of foreign pressure, whether 
by the Soviet Union or the United States of America, is, a calumny against the people of 
India. 


During the last session of Parliament, I have already spoken regarding our discussions 
with the leaders of the Opposition on this question. So have various members of the 
Opposition who were present at the meeting. Therefore it 1s not necessary to pursue this. 


Shn Bhandari made the most fantastic charge that by not acting earlier in Bangladesh, 
it is we who are responsible for the death of three million Bangladesh people. I think his 
argument was that we should have marched into Bangladesh in March or April last. The 
main people who are concerned are the people of Bangladesh and I think this House has 
seen in the newspapers what their views are regarding this matter. Normally I would not 
have mentioned this at all. However some things said by Opposition parties are repeated 
in other countries and create a wrong impression about India or about our intentions and 
our policies. Neither the Jan Sangh nor any group or any individual should make the mistake 
of contending that the freedom of Bangladesh is a gift from India. It is not. It is the 
achievement of the people of Bangladesh themselves. It is an achievement of the 
indomitable women and men, young and old; it is the fruit of the sacrifices which they 
have made. 


We have read many stories of atrocities in our newspapers and in the foreign press. 
But they are nothing as to what one hears there. It is so horrible. Even though people have 
described what they have seen, it is difficult to believe that any human being could act in 
such a way to another man or woman. The liberation was the achievement of the people 
of Bangladesh. And it was only when Pakistan made the supreme folly of attacking us 
across our own frontiers that we have to defend our territorial integrity. From that point, 
the war of the people of Bangladesh for attaining their freedom and the war of the people 
of India to defend their freedom became one. Any hasty action at an earlier stage would 
have brought incalculable harm to India and possibly not led to the results of which we 
are now So proud. 


I come now to the main Address. The President has given a realistic picture of our 
efforts as they have progressed year after year, for the transformation of our socio-economic 


structure in accordance with our declared objectives. At no time have we claimed that all 
these objectives could be achieved immediately. We do realise the difficulties we are going 
to face and the hard work that has to be put in. I myself have been hammering this point 
all these years at every single meeting where I have spoken. In the President’s address, 
Parliament and the country have been kept informed of the slow progress, for instance, in 
the industrial field. But the theme of the Address is that in spite of the gigantic problems 
we have had to face all along, and more especially the law and order problem, we have 
not made any excuses to slow down the pace of our socio-economic programmes. The 
dominant theme of the Address is ‘Arthik Swaraj’. 


Some people have accused us of wishful thinking. I remember earlier how many times 
in India and abroad my father was accused of having his head in the clouds. But I should 
like to assure hon. Members that the call for self-reliance is not a mere slogan. It is not 
wishful thinking. On the contrary, 1 seeks to give sharp focus to a time bound programme 
of scientific meausres which the Government have already formulated in some detail and 
will implement with the same determination which we showed during the critical months 
of November and December. 


In the contemporary world, “self-reliance” does not mean totai seif-sufficiency in all 
lines of production. It does mean that where we have the capacity where we have the know- 
how, we should not take anything from outside, but should try to earn increasingly from 
our exports to pay for essential imports is which may be needed to sustain the economy at 
a reasonably high level of productivity. It means the total emotional involvement of all 
those engaged in the process of production, labour management and governmental agencies 
at different levels, which are concerned with the regulation of the economy. 


During the recent conflict, our people have demonstrated their ability to rise above 
their sectional differences and interests and unitedly face the national problem and work. 
for national goals and objectives. I see no reason why the same spirit should not be 
generated to achieve this national objective. This 1s not only urgent for the well-being of 
the poor but also from the point of view of our defence and security. We have all along 
been stressing the point that it is we ourselves who shall have to bear the main brunt of 
the efforts needed to restructure and modernise our economy and that foreign aid can at 
best play only a supplementary and supporting role. We ourselves have wanted to make a 
sincere effort to cut down on foreign aid. Fortunately some of the countries themselves 
are helping us in this effort. 


The President’s Address has identified some sectors in which increased production 
should contribute significantly to a reduction in our dependence on external aid. There 
was special mention of steel, fertilisers, cotton and oilseeds. These are the areas in which 
we have considerable domestic capability and yet we have been depending on imports. 
There is no reason why we should not be able to increase their production. In fact, some 
States have assused that they have already taken up this programme and they think that 
within a short time we will be fully self-sufficient in these spheres also. 


sone: 

०८०३: ८:०४: ४०:77: 
anak ee x 
८०००० (९ 


५ Bente ee te 
Ce Sa 
ee 2०4 sas 22 


ROR 


BIRDIE TS TIN SRO IO 7 
PrN 
SNe 


225९१ 
see 

Se 

Soe 


Sas 2०2८९ 
np a oes a des se. 
a5 

‘ae 


oe 


Reena 


2 
Ss 

7703: 
os 


RN 
2222 ४ 
noes 


In his Address, the President has called for a moratorium on strikes and lock-outs. The 
President himself is personally taking a great interest in this matter and has been speaking 
and meeting people. At any time for any country a hold-up in production would be 
unfortunate but especially for our country at this particular cross-roads of our development 
it would be most unfortunate. Unfortunate is a very mild word to use I think history will 
not forgive us if we permit any interruption of production, on account of strikes or lock- 
outs in the present cicumstances when our national self-respect demands that we should 
free ourselves from any dependence on others. I have full faith in our people and have no 
doubt that their sense of patriotism will assert itself in fields and factories. A major factor 
which aggravates our economic inequality is unemployment and underemployment and 
hon. Members have rightly stressed these points in their speeches. The Plan is an instrument 
to increase employment opportunities and in the long term accelerated economic growth 
is the only effective answer. At the same time it is true that a proper strategy for 
development which is built around the problem of unemployment is necessary. We have 
taken certain supplementary measures to stimulate employment through specially designed 
programmes such as small farmers development programme, schemes for marginal farmers, 
landless labourers, rural works programme in drought—prone areas, schemes for dry farming 
areas, etc. and these programmes are expected to generate in the aggregate employment 
to the extent of two million man-hours per year. Our endeavour now is to ensure that these 
programmes are implemented more energetically. The 60-crore crash programme for rural 
employment will, I am told, make a greater impact on employment in the rural areas in 
the remaining two years of the Plan. As hon. Members are aware it always takes a little 
time for any scheme or programme to get going, that is for the work to start. Before 1t can 
make an impact or show results some time 1s needed. 


Under the programme for alleviating unemployment among the educated, schemes have 
been sanctioned for the expansion and improvement of the quality of primary education 
through the appointment of additional teachers, rural engineering surveys, agro-service 
centres, development of consumer cooperatives, preparation of road projects and rural water 
supply schemes and schemes for special support to small entrepreneurs. We have now 
decided that these programmes should be continued in the remaining two years of the Fourth 
Plan. Government have also proposed to initiate other programmes for the training and 
absorption of personnel such as engineers, technicians and post-graduates. Further allocation 
is proposed to be made to State Governments on a matching basis for the formulation of 
special employment programmes. These new programmes will be taken up in 1972-73 and 
will be financed out of the lump sum provision of Rs. 125 crores which was indicated by 
the Finance Minister in his Budget speech. It 1s estimated that these special programmes 
will benefit about 35 lakhs of educated unemployed. 


Notice has been given of a number of amendments about monopoly houses, the 
functioning of the M.R.T.P. Act and the need to nationalise various industries, specially 
those belonging to the monopoly houses. Now I have indicated my views on a number of 
occasions in this House and elsewhere on the question of nationalisation. The Government 
is neither adverse to nor afraid of nationalisation. But nationalisation has to fit into our 
overall scheme of priorities with reference to the changing conditions of our economy. 
We shall nationalise an industry or a unit if it is essential to strengthen the control of the 


public sector over the economy. That is why 14 major banks were nationalised, and later 
the General Insurance companies. We shall also not hesitate to nationalise (any) unit or 
industry when there is evidence that it is being managed to the detriment of the national 
interest. That is why we took over the management of certain coking coal mines and of 
copper. Nationalisation is one amongst many instruments at the disposal of Government 
to curb concentration of economic power in private hands, and we resort to it after a careful 
assessment of the efficacy of the other instruments available, in a given situation. We always 
consider that the extension of the public sector could be an effective countervailing force 
in checking concentration of economic power. The more active role which public financial 
institutions are now seeking in the management of enterprises in which they have substantial 
financial interests is also directed towards the same end. So far as the industrial houses 
are concerned, our policy has been spelt out in the M.R.T.P. Act as well as in the industrial 
licensing policy. We have delineated the fields in which these houses will be allowed to 
expand further, and wherever there is a possibility of choice between a larger house on 
the one hand and a medium house or a new entrepreneur on the other, Government have 
favoured the latter. But, sometimes no such medium house or a new entrepreneur 15 
available, and there 1s also no immediate possibility of any public sector unit, and in these 
cases we have sometimes allowed the large industrial houses to come in, because specially 
where the State is a backward one we find that there is a great deal of frustration and the 
feeling that they have been discriminated against because other States earlier had 
Opportunities which, are now being denied to them. The denial of licences for expansion 
in such cases would mean loss of production and perhaps involve larger imports to meet 
the domestic need. We must simultaneously pursue a number of economic objectives, a 
fast rate of industrial expansion, economic self-reliance, industrial development of backward 
areas, creation of opportunities for employment of different types of people. But while 
doing so, we have also to keep in view the strain on resources, financial as well as 
managerial, specially the latter. Hon. Members will appreciate that economic policy-making 
has to strike a very delicate balance between the several and sometimes conflicting 
objectives keeping in view both the short-term and the long-term needs-of the economy. 


Having said all] this I must confess that as a lay person—economists in this House may 
quarrel with me as those outside sometimes do—I do have a strong feeling that the present 
economic thinking is not solving the problems of contemporary society anywhere, not only 
in India but in the world. What other countries do is their concern, but we in India must 
devise an economic system which makes sense in our social setting. Our progress must 
be judged not by the GNP or the various other criteria which are put forward such as the 
number of cars on the road. I mention cars not because I think them important but recently 
I have read about three or four articles on China and other countries and a criterion for 
assessing standards is the number of cars, whether there are too few in some places or too 
many in other places and so on. Our progress must be measured by the extent to which 
Our programmes and goods are able to reach the poorest and the most needy. Therefore, 
an entirely fresh outlook on economic theory and its implementation 1s needed. 


I am not dwelling on the question of prices and so on because this has been talked 
about at greater length elsewhere. Hon: Members know that we are trying to hold foodgrain 
prices. They also know of the large sums which are spent on procurement and on ensuring 


222 ः TE Seats seer Ee, ropes 22%: “igre: 
ORE REED 22 ८ [४ ‘ inet: 


::222; De eee 
TE ot aK 2770 22:27 ; 


86 ° 


20277 22 Gees 222 22222: RIE aes ee £ 
४६५८८ A aS Aaa eo CRSA ERR SRT RO 20207 27:77 Ca 22222 


fair distribution. 1 was amazed to hear that some Members have spoken about starvation. 
Now, we have been through periods of famine. We have tried to prevent starvation and I 
think the whole world has realised what a tremendous job was done in preventing starvation 
and in raising our food output. There is a great poverty in India. Nobody denies it, but it 
is also true that there is no longer that degree of poverty which existed here before 
independnece. We have moved forward and it is of no use counting the paise that people 
earn. It can be seen on the faces of the people when you visit villages and even remote 
areas, how they are dressed, how bright the children’s faces are, what their reactions are 
when spoken to and so many other things. I would plead with the hon. opposition Members 
certainly not only they should criticise the Government. It is their main job to criticise the 
Government, its programmes and policies, but they should not in any way minimise the 
achievements of the nation, as this can only weaken national confidence and national 
determination. 


Our foreign policy has been one of friendship. It remains so. There is no weakness or 
drift in it. The President has clearly stated that, while we ourselves do not seek leadership 
or domination, we cannot tolerate any outside interference in our own affairs. Some nations 
have not always been friendly and have even sought to provoke us, but we have excluded 
none from the circle of our friendship. We do not dwell on the past. We think that every 
day can bring new opportunities and we have taken initiatives. We sincerely hope for a 
genuine response. 


The Congress party has secured major victories in the elections and this naturally is 
bound to give rise to feelings of sadness or disappointment in other parties, but I am sorry 
that this should lead to any talk of the boycott of Legislatures. Although there is much 
that divides us, I personally believe that there is much that unites us. These are our main 
objectives. I think nobody will quarrel with the objective of our national policy which 15 
to eradicate poverty, to remove economic backwardness, to bring about social equality. In 
the external sphere, our objective is to have an India which stands strongly for its 
independence and sovereignty, an India which will not bow its head to any power, however 
big, an India which will keep intact its integrity and keep aloft its national pride. I think 1 
have covered most of the points although I have not gone into details. This is the time, 
when our major objectives have to be looked at with a new outlook by the Opposition 
parties as well. I think they will notice that there is a mood of optimism, a mood of self- 
confidence, all over the country. We can use this feeling and this atmosphere to build. We 
are at the stage when we have the capacity to build. We have talked about self-reliance, 
we have talked about so many things.We have sincerely believed in them. But at no time 
have we had the capacity to go towards those goals as we have today. Before, these were 
the goals, but distant goals. Today they are not distant goals; they are within our reach. 
And if we unite instead of quarrelling over various small points or just trying to be little 
one another, I think this country has a great future and we can all share in building it and 
in taking it forward. Thank you. 


a Xe 


87 


४-7. १ a ere ee «ना ०० तन 5 


Self - Reliance“ 


Mr. Speaker, Sir, I find myself in rather a strange situation because, normally, I should 
have liked to make a scathing reply to the accusing remarks made from the other side, but 
I do not like to hit people when they are down, and it was obvious from several of the 
speeches made from the opposition side that they are indeed—some of them—in the depths 
of depression. One or two of the speeches that I listened to gave me the impression that 
the speakers had high fever or some such ailment...(/nterruptions) I think, I am being very 
meek...(/nterruptions). 


मुर aK aK aK a aK ae ie मंद 


If I can bring down the fever, then I shall certainly be happy.** 


Dr. Karn Singh, another friend opposite, is also in the Opposition and I think that the 
House knows that he is storngly opposed to our policies. No doubt he will remain opposed 
to them and he has, of course, to do so. But his speech was a balanced one, perhaps because 
he is a sportsman and has learnt to play the game. 


Some hon. Members spoke at length about democracy, but it seemed to me that, to 
them there is democracy while they are winning and things are on their side, but no 
democracy if they do not win. Then something is wrong with democracy. It is for the House 
to judge whether this is a propef definition of the word. (/nterruptions) 


tok ae ake ak Hoke 


I do not want to cnter into a controversy with the hon. gentleman opposite,*** but we 
all know that the Marxist definition of democracy has never been the same as that even of 
the rest of the Opposition. There is no point in entering into a controversy. 


Some of our friends opposite have always been prophets of gloom, not recently but 
for many years, long before I became Prime Minister or came into the Government. 


Some of these old habits are difficult to shake of. But, I do feel that to threaten violence 
in the manner it is sometimes done here or even to threaten mass Satyagraha is not very 
responsible talk. And certainly, you can’t have mass Satyagraha against the masses. 


OHO He Ok Ho 


* Replying to the debate on the Motion of Thanks on the President's Address, L.S. Deb., 4 April, 1972, cc. 149 -64. 
** Replying to Shri Jyotirmoy Bosu’s remark : ‘‘When you find fever in your opposition bench, naturally you are”. 
*** Replying to Shri Jyotirmoy Bosu's remark : “By use of official machinery.” 


eee 
Sok 
oN 258 


232 
tay 


This debate has ranged over a number of days, perhaps longer than I remember in 
previous sessions. Many points made were common to those made in the Budget debate. 
A large number of subjects have been covered but I shall confine myself only to the broader 
issues. Many of the points have, of course, been replied to by Members who spoke from 
our own side and sometimes by the Members of the Opposition Parties 
also....(Interruptions). Members of Parliament are expected to have a slightly longer 
memory. 


A few speakers stressed the point that instead of removing poverty we are removing 
the Opposition. I don’t think observations of this kind help to strengthen democracy because 
they indicate a certain lack of confidence in the judgement of the people. I refuse to take 
the blame for the failure of the Opposition parties at the polls. 


2 ok a ae a ae ok ak 


It has also been said that we have exploited the Bangladesh issue in the elections. But 
I should like to remind the hon. Members that we have had elections even before this issue 
came up, before the war had begun or even before the public knew about the movement 
in Bangladesh. We know the results of those elections also... 


ak मर 2 3 A ak aK ak ae 


There was a General Election in West Bengal*. The Bangladesh issue did make a 
difference but what made a difference even more than what happened in Bangladesh was 
the propaganda made by some Opposition parties against our Bangladesh policy. I might 
tell the hon. Member—I am sorry, I am digressing a bit—I have received letters from people 
saying that they have consistently supported the Marxists but that they were so shocked 
vy what was being said in this election that although they might not vote for Congress, 
they would not vote for the CPM. 


2c ake ak 2 2k मै ae ea 


Signed ones, with address and all complete.** 


Hence people have voted overwhelmingly for us. They have voted before. Certainly 
Bangladesh has made a difference. But the plain fact is that they are full of confidence. 
They do believe that a beginning has been made. They do think that this Government is 
capable of taking determined and resolute action and this is why they have voted for us. I 
entirely agree with the frends opposite when they say that if we do not live up to all we 
have promised and if we do not deliver the goods, the people will not vote for us again. 
That is quite obvious and is part of democracy. This is the challenge before us all but it is 
not a challenge merely to the Government. It is important to us whether we form the 


* Replying to Shri Jyotirmoy Bosu’s remark : “In West Bengal”. 
** Replying to Shri Jyotirmoy Bosu’s remark : “Signed ones?” 


government or somebody else does, but, what is more important is that what needs to be 
done for the Indian people, is done. If other people can do this,:I shall not stand in their 
way. 


It is often said that if a particular word or term 1s not repeated it 1s forgotten. Yesterday 
I heard a speech wherein it was stated that the word socialism had now been given the 
go-by. It has not been given the go-by neither have socialism nor garibi hatao nor any of 
the slogans which we have been raising. All our programmes and the progress we make 
will show that they are not forgotten, but, it is true that slogans or words have to be viewed 
differently at different times. We have moved forward from our previous position. We are 
in the midst of implementing these programmes. We do raise slogans even now, but we 
are also fully involved in implementing them. Just because a particular Address does not 
make mention of a phrase or word this does not mean for a second that we have diverted 
from our basic objectives or even from our short-term programmes. 


When we speak about the removal of poverty, we must also remember... that the 
concept of poverty and of the needs of the people is a changing one. People are demanding 
more than they did even 5 years ago. They are demanding more and the whole poverty 
line is a moving one. What might have satisfied people a few years ago is not going to 
satisfy them now and that is only right. 


ae मंच मंद aK 2c oe me afc afc 


It is moving upwards, not sideways*. (Interruptions) 1 would like to assure the House 
that I do not believe in regimentation. I think that it is good that we have people of different 
shapes and sizes, that we have different customs and cultural practices. They all add to 
the spice of life. 


Progress has to be viewed in terms of the minimum requirements of the majority of 
our people who are poor, and not only in terms of the luxuries of a very few and even not, 
I would say, of the extras of the numbers who are in between. We have to make a far 
greater effort in helping those who are at the very lowest level. While I have said that the 
poverty-line has moved, I must confess that those who are at the very bottom have benefited 
the least and there are some, who have not benefited at all. It was necessary to build an 
infra-structure and this 18 what we were concerned with all these years. I think that we 
have succeeded in doing this to a large extent, and we are now at 2 stage when we can 
push forward with a massive programme to meet these needs and to provide the basic 
amenities to our people. 


Hon. Members have in their speeches understandably voiced concern about prices and 
in the notices for amendments. Amongst our economic objectives, Government attaches 
very high priority to reasonable price stability. I do not claim that our attempts in this regard 
have been wholly successful. 


ae मं HO मं a ae के 


* Replying to Shri Piloo Mody’s remark : “Moving upwards or downwards 7" 


I would request hon. Members, including even those sitting on the other side, to 
objectively. analyse the factors which govern the price situation and not to exaggerate the 
extent of the price rise.... 


2 मंद Ok मर a af मर ae ok 


...because, I think that such over-statements as are sometimes made only strengthen 
the inflationary psychology in the country. 


ake a a af ae 2k अंट ae a 


Economic analysts, many of whom were prophesing all kinds of dire consequences 
and a breakdown of the economy of India only a very short time ago, have now expressed 
welcome surprise at the manner in which we have been able to control the price line, in 
spite of the extraordinary expenditure which had to incur last year. 


Of course, there has been a rise in prices. Nobody is denying this. But it 1s accepted 
that it has been contained within reasonable limits, and this is a measure of the success of 
the various steps which we took last year, such as the regulation of credit, the banning of 
forward trading in certain commodities, timely and selective imports of essential raw 
materials and above all, the mobilisation of larger resources to meet our commitments on 
refugees relief, defence etc. 


Some hon. Memebrs have asked why we need, still require large resources since the 
refugees have now returned ? But I do not think I need to dwell on this matter. Every one 
is fully aware of the additional burdens which we still have to bear. 


The policy that we have steadfastly followed since the beginning of the Fourth Plan 
of building up adequate buffer stocks of foodgrains has also paid dividends. In spite of 
floods in Northern India, and drought in some parts of the south, our stocks of foodgrains 
are now at a record level, and this augurs well for the stability of foodgrains’ prices and 
this will no doubt have a stabilising effect on the cost of living. But hon. Members must 
give deeper thought to this matter, because we must maintain a reasonable balance between 
the interests of purchasers and the consumers. I feel that farmer who have large marketable 
surpluses should be willing to share some of their gains of increased productivity with 
consumers. The maintenance of higher 91608 for farm produce at artificially higher levels 
can only generate pressures for higher prices elsewhere in the economy and this cannot 
be ॥ the interests of the farmers themselves in the long run. I hope hon. Members will 
take an integrated view of the whole problem of prices when they consider the question 
of remunerative prices for agricultural produce. 


In regard to the fixation of prices of manufactured goods also, we should give up the 
cost-plus approach which has in the past made things easy for inefficient producers because 
they are not forced to resort to more prudent management of resources and to reduce their 
costs. So, whatever decision we take on individual prices, these should subserve the interests 
of the national economy as a whole and not seek to benefit any one section at the cost of 


the other. 


91 


% Lg Py है ॥ ४८ ५४ 0, हक क्र ¥ 
22077: ie Nees cacao ९०८०२ 
rd an ry "7, 


ee 
a ie 
2228 
ay 
Siren 


कब OP 
Met aS fee oa 
Pier tae oS cS 
poke 
ate 


| fully support the emphasis which hon. Members have laid on the urgent need to 
multiply employment opportunities. A major breakthrough on this front in the next three 
or four years is absolutely essential if we are to establish the viability of our political and 
economic system. 


More than any other factor, it is unemployment which aggravates poverty and creates 
frustration particularly amongst the young and educated. A more egalitarian social order 
cannot be built unless employment opportunities for gainful employment are more widely 
distributed. A high rate of economic growth can itself solve some of the problems of 
unemployment. But I do not subscribe to the proposition that only a high rate of growth 
Can solve our problems and that we can afford to leave unemployment to the tender mercies 
of such growth. The experience of many developed countries has shown that unemployment 
and high rate of growth can and do co-exist in many of these countries. We should not get 
enmeshed in economic jargon on these matters. An entirely new outlook has to be evolved. 
In this I hope we shall have the co-operation of all. I hope soon to call a meeting of the 
Leaders of the Opposition so that we can exchange views on some of these matters. 


AK 3K ae मर मर mee ae मे 


That was a very long time ago and much water has flowed down the Ganga and other 
rivers since then.* 


Therefore, full employment or fuller employment is one of the central objectives of 
our plan. Special programmes have to be undertaken to supplement the opportunities for 
employment generated by the Plan. Hon. Members know that a number of programmes 
of this nature were initiated earlier. I know that all of them have not gathered momentum, 
but they are now beginning to do so, and I think their effect will soon be felt. 


The Budget also shows further evidence of Government’s earnestness in tackling this 
problem. The Annual Plan for 1972-73 provides for an appreciable increase in development 
outlays in the public sector and this should bring about material improvement in the tempo 
of economic activity in the private sector also. The additional provision of Rs. 125 crores 
made in the Plan will enable Government to implement a number of new employment 
oriented schemes which would, at the same time, meet some of the basic needs of our 
people such as drinking water supply, housing, roads and so on. 


As I have said earlier, as we gain experience, as we implement these schemes 
successfully, more employment opportunities will automatically open out, we shall be able 
to harness our enormous manpower, skilled as well as unskilled and dovetail employment 
with programmes for the removal of poverty. 


But for all this, we need massive investment which can only come out of higher 
domestic savings, hard work and increased productivity. This will be feasible only if all 
of us accept the imperative need for greater efficiency and set about achieving it in all 


* Replying to Shri Shyamnandan Mishra’s question, ‘What has happened to the Committee on Planning ? There 
used to be a Prime Minister's Committee on Planning”. 


me ran 


Rn 


20220: BSR PODS OST 70200 
= Noein ner tee ८.८२ reise eras oe 232 a 


cree 27:77: 70 7 70.70 :/70700:.. 


nee 722 
25598&55 


oe 
222 


८ 's. ae 
Pad ee 2» 
SSCA anos 
9, व Te A EP 4, 


EEE 
०2०००, 

27 avs 
2222 


४६६ 


4707 


a 
Ooo * 
eae 


sectors of our economy. I have been repeating—and I hope I will not be misunderstood if 
I say it again—that those who are employed have a special obligation to the unemployed. 
I do appreciate the difficulties, I do sympathise with the difficulties of those who have 
demands; but at the same time, if we are to give in to the demands of these limited numbers 
we do take away from the resources available for the very much larger number who are 
seeking employment. So let not one group of people, even though they may not be affluent, 
be exploiters of the unemployed. Workers, particularly those in the organised sector, should 
recognise that by keeping the wheels of industry moving without interruption, they can 
make a very significant contribution to economic growth and thus to the creation of greater 
employment. If we have called for a moratorium on strikes and lock-outs, it is not for the 
benefit of those who control industrial units; it is for the benefit of the nation and specially 
for those who are the least privileged sections. 


of मंद मर ek of ak oe a 


It all goes together.* If production rises, then that will affect prices. 


The President’s Address has emphasised self-reliance as one of the major objectives 
of high priority. Our friend opposite has reminded us, although we needed no such 
reminding, that none of these objectives are new objectives. If he takes the trouble to read 
my speeches, I have said this almost in every speech I have made, whether to limited 
audience or to vast public gatherings. The Congress has stood for self-reliance from the 
beginning; the Congress has stood for socialism and all these things. But, as I said earlier, 
when we said these things earlier, they were not on the horizon; they were only distant 
goals. Now we have moved forward and we are very much closer to the goal. So, the slogan 
is the same; the objective is the same; but naturally as we proceed towards it, the attitude 
has to change; new programmes and new steps have to be undertaken. 


The hon. Member opposite gave such fulsome praise to my father yesterday, a few 
minutes ago I said that Members of Parliament should have better memories; but perhaps 
they are privileged not to have any memory. Quite often they contradict themselves. I 
remember some of the speeches when my father was Prime Minister, and I do not remember 
having the same fulsome praise in those days. In fact, the criticism was very much on the 
lines of what the hon. Member** said yesterday. (/nterruptions). Anyway, I welcome the 
support which the hon. Members and the people at large have extended to our policy of 
self-reliance. (Interruptions). 


aK Hc ae me मंद मर a मर भर 


We must be clear as to what we mean by self-reliance, because every word is given 
different meaning. No nation, not even the most affluent one, can insulate its economy. 
All nations are interdependent to a certain extent; they must share services and goods, and 
India certainly will need considerable time to absorb improved technologies and equipment 


* Replying to Shri Indrajit Gupta’s remark : ‘What about a moratorium on prices and profits?”. 
** Shri Indrajit Gupta. 


93 


from outside. But we want to pay for those goods and services, increasingly through our 
own export earnings, and we must always see that through this outside and, whether it is a 
of know-how or material, other influences should not infiltrate. We shall always be vigilant 
about that. 


Our increase in exports is largely dependent on the economic policies of developed 
countries; and in particular, on the provision of fair opportunities of access to their market. 
So, in co-operation with other under-developed countries, we shall seek just solutions for 
our own trading problems. However, in the ultimate analysis, the success of our export 
promotion efforts will be determined by the overall efficiency of our own economy and 
the extent to which we can keep down our costs. 


Import substitution is equally important. The President’s Address has identified some 
of the specific sectors in which import substitution is of critical importance. To give 
examples, the production of an extra million tonnes of steel in the current year is well 
within our reach if all those engaged 1n this industry, management as well as labour, will 
bend their energies to this task and function unitedly for the achievement of our national 
goal. (Interruptions) I can assure hon. Members that the Minister is certainly bending all 
his enérgies. 


Much is said about the grant of industrial licences to the large houses. Our policy is 
quite clear on this. We are not going back on it. What has been done is that when there is 
no suitable medium or new entrepreneur and when no one comes forward in what are called 
the core or heavy investment sectors or export-oriented industries, in such cases, we have 
granted industrial licences to the large houses, after satisfying ourselves that they can set 
up the capacity for the production quickly. This is especially so in regard to backward 
arcas, because otherwise it would mean that we would not be able to set up any industry 
in those areas and this would not only not help the backward districts to forge ahead, but 
it would also entail loss of production and involve larger imports to meet rising domestic 
needs. 


Our vision of development is not confined to simple economic development; we feel 
that it should inculcate pride and contentment in work; it should not only give a sense of 
participation but genuine involvement to every Indian in the shaping of the country’s future. 


My hon. friend opposite said yesterday something about hippies. If he knows India at 
all he should know that this is not a new phenomenon for us. We have our own varieties, 
we do not call them hippies; perhaps they do not look like hippies. Nevertheless, they do 
exist and they have been rightly or have wrongly hallowed by history. I personally have 
an Obsession with cleanliness. Also I have nothing to say for those who are drug addicts. 
However, this question should not be oversimplified. We must realise that many of these 
hippies have taken positive stands on various issues. Some have become hippies to avoid, 
for instance, going to Viet Nam to bomb the innocent...(/nterruptions) 1 personally do 
not think that a hippy is in any way worse than somebody whose livelihood is dependent 
on the exploitation of others, who may observe the outward forms of society but indulge 
in other undesirable activities. I cannot speak for all hippies, I do not know whether they 


es ४2०४ Oy ee, 22 ५१५५१, ९५९ १ 
Ss eee Serpent 22222 2८222 
22:222:22:2 2८797 72222 


94 


all think alike. But certainly some of them are attempting to get away from what is known 
today as the “concrete jungles” of the big cities of the affluent countries .and the limited 
values of the acquisitive society. 


As I was coming to the House an hon. Member on our side requested that I should say 
a word about the dacoit menace. We are all aware of the seriousness of this problem. 
Perhaps you know that the Home Ministry is having talks with the concerned States looking 
into this problem. There are many other matters which are also of importance which I am 
not going into because it would take too long. 


I come now to foreign policy and our unilateral offer of ceasefire. I am not going into 
the question of who supported and who did not support this measure. Members of the 
Opposition, or at least representatives of all parties were called. When this discussion came 
up on an earlier occasion the other Opposition Members contradicted what some have said; 
I am not going into that matter again. oo 


Our unilateral offer of a ceasefire has been welcomed in all international circles, all oe 
over the world; not only that, I have also no hesitation in saying that it has been widely e 
praised within our own country among all sections of the people. The Jan Sangh stand on : 
this matter is typical of its extremely chauvinistic, immature and anti-philosophy of life. se 
So enthusiastic was the popular feeling about the role which the Soviet Union played during 
the whole crisis of Bangladesh that even the Jan Sangh was compelled to desist from talking 
against them. But now they seem to have reverted to their earlier passion for bating the 
Soviet Union. The Soviet Union is a friend of India, and we value their friendship. However, 
any one who imagines that we shall allow ourselves to be dictated to by third parties in 
our negotiations with Pakistan or in any other matter, foreign or domestic, is quite off the 
mark. Let me make that quite clear. The Government of India have consistently spoken 
for and wanted normalisation of relations with Pakistan, and we continue to want it. I took 
the initiative this time by saying that I would be prepared for talks, and indeed we are in 
direct touch with Pakistan. One must learn from past experience, but I do not think that 
One can keep harping on the past I hope that India and Pakistan can both now turn their 
backs on the era of conflicts and confrontation. Whatever some short-sighted people might 
say or do, I think that this nation as a whole does desire to live in peace with Pakistan, 
and indeed with all its neighbours. We have never had any quarrel with the people of 
Pakistan. They have long suffered, and I think their only mistake was that they believed 
all the lies that were told to them about India. Perhaps even now they do not have a correct 
appreciation of our attitude, of what we are in our own country or our desire for friendship 
with our neighbouring country. I should like them to know that we do not propose to 
negotiate in any spirit of arrogance, we do not wish to humiliate any one. We should like 
to discuss matters in a spirit of friendship and co-operation. We have believed that the 
triumphs of peace are greater than those of war. It is peace we seek, a peace which is 
enduring, so that we can concentrate on our own affairs, on our Own war on poverty. 


00५ 


धन टन 
Beason Sarees 


7272 


22207 
८ 


Negotiations cannot be conducted through speeches or public postures. Channels of 
communication are available for the exchange of ideas. I believe that Pakistan, Bangladesh 
and India, working together 1n a spirit of cooperation and good neighbourliness, can be a 


» ५४८४ (पर aes ०८ ee aes ta On, y ९,०५९ 
x es BS RAE ES CORE RRC NCS a oe Beane : 
efoto ce 222 Bs te ९९०४८) i more. i Sores 22४ ore ४; coe a (० fat 
(९ Bes ae af Sater 2 ० ८) “0८ हि So 4 Cee - गदर 2 
22:1० A pitts Se ao PSs 22022: TRE 70:25 ६८227: ०९५ ४ 20020 2100 200 GON ४202८ Sees 
boas 2 है anneal ae x 22०२१ a Re tne ae ere ¢ 
AN BES 1202 ease PERRI PREP AD PRPS AON LENA se ८४४८३ ८०० Be SON DO eis 1.४ 


_ source of strength to one another. We have not become independent to become pawns in 
other people’s hands. If we work together, we can become stronger within our own country, 
and contribute to the strength of the sub-continent and, I would say, to all the developing 
countries. 


To come back to the national scene, | said earlier that we have had many prophets of 
gloom and doom. 


oe मंद 2k ae kc ae aK मंद और 


If you can think of any other matching or rhyming word, I am willing to accept it.* 


But one by one, we have proved them wrong. There were people who thought that we 
could not become independent through non-violence; there were people who thought that 
a democratic system could not have a planned economy, there were people who thought 
that adult franchise would not work where there are large number of illiterates and so on 
and so forth. There were people who thought we could not survive the split in the party, 
the Bangladesh crisis. The list is a long one, but one by one we have shown that this country 
has a sound base and the people are determined to solve their problems in our own way. 


My hon. friend opposite, Shyamnandan Babu, is a well-read person. So, I hesitate to 
quote something to him. 1 am not good at remembering names of authors, but yesterday 
when he was speaking a verse came to my mind. I do not remember who has written it. 
But it says—I am not quoting the poem; I am just telling what it is about : An old man is 
complaining. He is saying, the steps are so steep; the passage is so dark and other such 
things. The sympathetic listener pays great attention to him and then remarks, ““Well, this 
may be so. But it is strange that no complaint has come from youth !” Age is not merely a 
question of years; it is a question of one’s outlook. There is no doubt that in the country 
today, there is a mood of optimism. There is a mood of confidence. There is a feeling that. 
while the problems are tremendous, they can be solved. Today nobody asks, “Can you do 
this ? Can India do this ?” Whether from outside or inside whether experts or ordinary 
people, the question 1s, “When can this be completed ?” This in itself shows a major step 
forward. 


Too long have some in our country played the game of our enemies by persisting in 
minimizing our achievement by denigrating our leaders in short, in sapping the confidence 
and will of our people. We are passing through critical months. (/nterruptions)... lam not 
talking about myself; I am talking about previous years. We are neither at war, nor are we 
completely at peace. Perhaps we are 1n for a long period of a testing of nerves. In this 
situation, it is imperative that we all remain calm, cool and united and also that we do not 
forget the war at home, which is the war against poverty. 


A new outlook is needed in dealing with all the old problems as well as with the new 
challenges which our development and growth are throwing up. Can the hon. Members 


* Replying to Shri Shyamnandan Mishra’s comment, “And bloom”. 


of the Opposition rise above their frustration and try to look beyond the horizon, so that 
we can fight and win this battle together ? 


We must deal with the problem of economic and social transformation with the same 
determination that we showed in meeting last year’s challenges. This is, as the President 
has stated, no less heroic and no less essential. In fact, it is a bigger challenge and has to 
be met at several levels and on many fronts. I sincerely hope that when you recover from 
the shock of the last month or so, we can all sit down and once more work unitedly for 
the welfare of our people. 


Sir, I request the House to adopt the Motion of Thanks. 


97 


Issues Before the Nation* 


Mr. Speaker, Sir, some of our friends opposite have called the President’s Address a 
ritual. Now it is not a ritual, it is a requirement of the legislature; it is an assessment of 
the state of the nation and it indicates the work ahead, as the President has said, for the 
executive, for Parliament and for the country as a whole. If I may say so, as regards the 
action of some of our friends opposite who chose to boycott the Address, whatever their 
motives, whatever the reasons that they have given here, I think the country and the general 
public have taken it as not merely a protest, but as not honouring the President. I am not 
using strong words. 


Although many Members have declared that this was not their intention, yet this is 
the way in which the public looks at it. Merely saying something else will not change the 
situation. Personally I think that it is a disservice to those who have elected the Members, 
because this is a part of parliamentary procedure, and if I may say so... 


मैप ak ok मै अं XK ok मर 


... Have we not been elected for that reason ? 
Have the people elected us for some other reason ? 


...1 consider their abstention an empty ritual. One hon. Member said that there was no 
juice and colour in the Address. If the hon. Member’s idea of juice and colour is what is 
provided here by the Opposition, I would say that he and they are welcome to it. 


The Address has qualities which are far more solid and far more important, that is, 
truth, earnestness and determination. We have no need to indulge in verbal heroics. This 
Government, this party and indeed, I would say, the people of India, are deeply immersed 
in a very heroic task, not an easy task, but a task that needs all the qualities and all the 
strength of which this nation is capable. 


This time last year, we were in the after glow of a war, a war which fully vindicated 
our ideals, our policies and our judgement. I said then that this crisis, the Bangla Desh- 
Pakistan crisis, which had overflowed on to our territory was an interruption in our own 
national battle for economic and social construction. 


* Replying to the debate on the Motion of Thanks on the President's Address, LS. Deb., 27 February, 1973, 
८९. 292-315. 


Hon. Members will perhaps remember that at that ume I had also said that our victory 
would involve.a price in the form of great hardship in every field of activity in the country. 
Each measure we took then had financial and economic implications and it was obvious 
that the subsequent months would witness the repercussions of what had happened then. 


I mention this bit of recent history not to find a scapegoat as one hon. member said, 
but to put these problems which are serious, grave problems, about which we are all deeply 
concerned, problems of price rises, of commodity shortages, of economic hardships in their 
proper perspective. Hardships are there. We know they would come. We had wamed the 
nation, we had warned Parliament. What we had not known and what constituted an added 
burden and increased our difficulties was the fact of drought. But I have no doubt that the 
Government and the people of this country will overcome these difficulties, as they 
overcome the vast challenge that was posed to us in 1971. 


The Opposition has a vested interest in Government’s failure. But I hope they will also 
realise that any failure at this point means tremendous increase in hardship on the people. 
It does not mean a hardship for Government, but it does mean a hardship for the people. 


Many Opposition friends are fond of saying that ‘you will not be there’ or ‘this will 
happen to Government’. I am equally keen on repeating as many times as is necessary 
that our interest is not in being here, our interest is in pursuing a particular policy and in 
seeing that that policy succeeds. If in pursuing that policy we do not succeed, it still does 
not mean that we give up policies which we consider to be night and which we feel have 
been vindicated by every event that has taken place. 


Hon. members would do well to look back at their own speeches which they have been 
making. Is there any ttme when they thought the nation would make good ? Is there any 
time when they thought that anything was succeeding? Yet in spite of those gloomy 
predictions, we did make good. We did meet the biggest challenge that perhaps any nation, 
developed, rich, affluent or poor, has faced and we did emerge a stronger country with 
greater self-confidence. 


We are used to these speeches. They have been made today, they will be made tomorrow 
and they will be made for all time to come. But Government is not going to be diverted 
from its declared, accepted policy or its programmes. Government has no intention of 
failing. Government is going to succeed in what it has set before itself. We may have 
shortfalls, we may have setbacks, as every country, every government, every people do 
have, had and will continue to have. But we have no doubt at all that we face the future 
with confidence and that just as we have overcome them, in spite of the gloomy forecasts 
made by hon. members opposite and many other people in this country and their friends 
abroad, we are going to come through this with success. 


me 2c मर मर नर मं aie aie a 
In 25 years, the country’s intrinsic strength and maturity have increased tremendously 


and have enabled us to face the multitude of challenges. The country must, and will, take 
the challenges of 1973 in its stride. The Opposition leaders spoke of galloping inflation, 


of galloping corruption, if I may say so, with galloping rhetoric in the House and outside 
they have been encouraging disruptive activities of every kind. (/nterruptions). 


ae a a ae ok a ec कं: के 


No Please, Shri Mishra, if you will take the trouble to read my speeches, you will find 
that even at the time of victory, I did not boast of it*. (/nterruptions). 


I would like to remind the hon. Member that the elections were held at the nght time. 


ae मंद oe me a ae ae ic मर 


Shri Mishra has his own way of judging how our country proceeds.** He might perhaps 
study what happens with regard to the elections in other countries. In fact, this 1s the first 
time we had one election a year ahead. The last elections of the State Assemblies were 
after due time, just a little later. We had decided that... 


We were certainly discussing, but what did we discuss*** ? We discussed that since 
there was a war we could not have the election. But when the war ended, there was no 
excuse whatsoever to put off the elections, and therefore, the elections were held. 


Now, in the Government, the road is a far too steep and difficult one for us to go 
galloping it, much as we might like to gallop or cantor. I am afraid the road is far too 
difficult; the task is far too big a one, and the Government has to work hard. 


There is no time for any gallops on this side or that. 


The biggest concer, and the immediate concern, before us is naturally the question 
of organising relief. We have been and we are mobilising all the resources in money and 
in materials to overcome this crisis. 48 lakhs of people are engaged in relief works in 
Rajasthan, in Gujarat, in Maharashtra, Mysore, Andhra Pradesh and Tripura. These relief 
works are being undertaken on a scale never before envisaged. The difficulties are indeed 
great, but this is the first time that the Government has come forward with such a vast 
programme of help. About 90,000 different kinds of relief work are under implementation. 


The greatest hardship is due to the shortage of water-supply and certain steps have 
been taken : massive programmes for loans and grants for the digging of wells, for the 
production of ngs and arrangements for the transportation of water. There is hardship with 
regard to cattle. Relief camps have been opened. Subsidy or loans for the movement of 
fodder crops have been arranged from forests. We are trying to search out new items which 
can be used as fodder; for instance, the tops of sugarcane. There may also be other such 
items. Rs. 445 crores have been released. 


There is also a special food plan for 1973-74 which includes an increase of rabi 
production and inputs for a higher kharif output. 


* Responding to Shri Shyamnandan Mishra’s remark, “You have been doing it”. 
** Replying to Shri Shyamnandan Mishra’s remark, “You betrayed the Opposition at the time of Assembly elections...” 
*** Answering Shri Shyamnandan Mishra’s question, “Were you not discussing with us for postponement 7" 


100 - 


I am sorry that sometimes a case is tried to be made out that we are partial to one 
State and not to another. We are deeply concerned with the hardships in all parts, wherever 
they exist in different parts of India, and it is our earnest endeavour to see that all parts 
are helped equally within the resources which are available to us. 


One hon. Member remarked that we always have droughts. If I may submit, such a 
blanket statement is an exaggeration and an over-simplification of very grave issues 
involved. The drought this year is not a normal drought. It is a very unusual drought. The 
very fact that even those countries which are not usually importers of grains have imported 
enormous quantities shows how many countries have been affected this year. 


In fact some agency of the United Nations has taken special cognisance of the fact 
and is trying to mobilise world-wide resources and funds in order to help the countries 
which are affected. They have approached us also in this regard. It is as a result of the 
progress we have made on our agricultural front and our policy of building up buffer stocks 
that we were able to manage this very difficult year with marginal imports. I do not agree 
with the hon. friends who feel that there is something shameful in imports. We should 
like to be self-sufficient but if there is a drought of such magnitude which has affected 
many people, and if we can help them by imports, we should not consider it as something 
wrong. Nevertheless we have been able to manage with only marginal imports. I share 
the agony of the hon. Members at the distress that is being caused in some parts of the 
country. 


I am not one who usually quotes from newspapers nor do I think that what the 
newspapers print is gospel truth. But hon. Members are very impressed when something 
comes out in print and since this paper happened to come to me only a few minutes ago, I 
thought I would read out what a foreign correspondent who has travelled in all the drought 
affected areas Maharashtra, Gujarat, Rajasthan and Mysore with the exception of Tripura 
I believe—has said: 


I found the bulk of the Indian farmlands were substantially better prepared than before 
to withstand the shortage of rain. The green revolution has not failed. Prime Minister 
Indira Gandhi was only a little wrong when she said proudly last year that India has 
reached self-sufficiency ॥ food. 


This is the Christian Science Monitor... 
ae अर ak me अं मु Me a मंद 
Our production has gone up. Your* shouting there is not going to change that fact. I 
do not think that Mr. Piloo Mody could have produced rains at the right time; if he could 


then I must say it was very remiss of him not to do so just because the Government is not 
his. 


As I said, our economy has the capacity to deal with such situations. What has happened 
this year is that production of coarse grain in the rained areas has been mainly affected. 


* Referring to Shri Piloo Mody. 


161 


There is a steady increase in the production of wheat from year to year because of our 
development activities. The drought-prone areas of the country need to be dealt with on a 
separate footing. From the point of view of their overall development, as the House knows, 
a special group is currently finalising the strategy for the development of such areas and I 
am sure that in the Fifth Plan it will/be possible for us to undertake the programme in a 
big way. 


The other matter of great concern to us is that of the rise in the prices of food. A situation 
of shortfall in agricultural production has been exploited and a psychology of scarcity has 
been created by painting every effort that is made as failure even from the beginning, 
leading to speculation and retention of stocks at various levels. The House knows of our 
scheme to take over the wholesale trade in wheat from the coming season. This is designed 
to eliminate some of the factors from our food economy which encourage hoarding and 
speculation. 


I know that this is a major structural reform, which will evoke opposition from 
interested groups and that every attempt will be made to scuttle it. But Government is 
determined to face the situation squarely. The State Governments will be enabled to make 
all administrative and organisational arrangements necessary for the success of the working 
of this scheme. 


The other great problem is that of unemployment. But again, in spite of what some 
hon. members have chosen to say on the floor of the House, these programmes have not 
crashed. On the contrary, although they took some time in taking off, they are now in full 
swing in the States and a large number of people have been provided with employment 
on worth-while schemes. I do not say that we have solved the entire problem nor had we 
said that we would be able to do so. All that we had said was that it was a beginning and a 
help in the midst of a specially difficult situation and that is what has happened. The major 
effort made in this direction in the last two years and the achievements gained so far cannot 
be simply brushed aside. It is Government’s determination to go ahead and expand these 
programmes ॥ the coming year, as announced in the President’s Address. 


Some people, of course, have made up their minds that nothing can succeed and the 
minute a programme is announced they start announcing what a big failure it is, even before 
it has begun to function and they start deriding the programme. 


मैप मद मैप mK 2K oe mK मर 
I am afraid the experience is rather limited, with all due respect to the hon. Member.* 


Let me say modestly that the programmes launched by Government have succeeded to 
some extent. (/nterruptions). 


Hk मै ek a 22k मं 
Had we not succeeded, we could not have faced the challenge**. You cannot get away 
from that, no matter how much you try. This time two years ago hon. Members were all 


* Replying to a Member's remark : “It is based on past experience”. 
** Replying to Shri Shyamnandan Mishra’s remark : ‘What is the success 7” 


saying that we could not face the Bangladesh situation. Well, now it is proved that we did 
face it. I say here and now that two years hence we will show that everything you have 
said today was wrong. 


In the field of power, a group of Ministers have looked into the whole question during 
the last few months, and as a result of various studies that have been made, a concrete 
programme of obtaining additional power of nearly 500 MW by May, 1973 from the 
existing thermal generating plants has been drawn up. Production programmes for all the 
generation plants will be drawn up within the next three months and implemented in a 
coordinated and time-bound manner. Selected power projects will be accelerated to obtain 
an additional capacity of about 1300 MW by the end of 1973 and another 1750 MW by 
the end of 1974. The transmission projects necessary for this will also be accelerated. 1 
am sorry for the difficulties which the Tamil Nadu Government is facing, but let me say 
that they are not more than those being faced by U.P. or Punjab or Haryana and perhaps 
some other States as well, just to quote a few instances. Effective measures will be taken 
for the linkage of power plants with coal mines and rail transport and control room 
operations for this purpose. These measures have already begun. 


Similarly time-bound action programmes have been drawn up for fertilisers etc. Our 
public enterprises have had their share of teething trouble and opposition members should 
be happy, because it gave them many talking points all these years. But now these 
enterprises are about to make good. 


Onc hon. Member has spoken of uncertainty in the industrial climate. I think the answer 
to that is that there are some people who always feel uncertain, I do not know what we 
can do to make them feel less uncertain. Our industrial policy is quite clear...(/nterruptions) 
I am very sorry, Shn Banerjee, we cannot oblige you. Because there was talk of uncertainty, 
we decided to re-state our policy very clearly a short time ago. Governmental decisions 
are taken in the light of the Industrial Policy Resolution of 1956, which clearly lays down 
the fields reserved for the public sector and fields which are reserved for the private sector 
and others in which both sectors could play their respective role. The priority given to 
them has been revised from time to time, according to the needs of the plan and our 
development. When the management of a mill or mine is mismanaged or is allowed to 
deteriorate without modernisation or re-investment, and it 15 taken over by the government 
in order to ensure continuity of production and employment and in order to modernise it, 
the bogey is raised that “government is going to nationalise everything” and “there is a 
climate of uncertainty”. This uncertainty, 1f any, apart from being in the minds of the hon. 
Members opposite, is largely the making of some elements in the private sector. 


So far as we are concerned, our socialism is not coterminous with nationalisation. I 
have said it many times. Where nationalisation is necessary for the better running of 
anything or for the public good, we shall not hesitate to do it. But we do not believe that 
there should be nationalisation merely for the sake of taking over concerns or factories. 


One hon. Member* asked me for my definition of socialism. I have spoken on this 
subject quite a lot in various forums and I believe, my views have been made perfectly 


* Shri Atal Bihari Vajpayee. 


103 


clear. My socialism does not envisage government doing everything. We neither expect 
this nor do we desire this. What we want to create is a climate of equality of opportunity 
in which vast millions can help themselves. 


I am not a marxist. But I must say that the word does not frighten me either. Some of 
the insights given by Marx have been acknowledged even by apologists of the capitalist 
system. Men like Marx or Gandhi or other great men are too big to be imprisoned by 
“isms”, -of Marxism or Gandhism. Their ideas are too solid to be affected by this sort of 
cirticism. 

There are many forces in the world which do not want India to succeed. They are 
disturbed at the mood of self-assertion and the splendid performance of our people in facing 
the challenge. India can only follow an independent foreign policy, and our successive 
actions have proved this. Since December 1971, a new theory is being evolved, that of 
being a dominant power. I have never regarded this as a compliment. In fact, when I first 
read the phrase, I told a newspaper correspondent, who was interviewing me, that in my 
view this was a crude attempt to sow suspicion against us amongst our neighbours. I have 
made the same remark during my visit to Nepal and on various other occasions. So this is 
not in reply to the speech reported in today’s newspapers. We in the Government of India 
do not believe in power politics. We do not desire the status or the perquisites of what is 
known as conventional power. Events 1n Asia have proved that this kind of thinking by 
anybody that he is dominant or that a big power has some kind of divine right to a sphere 
of influence, just does not apply in the contemporary world. 


We, of course, have never believed in this. Now it has been proved to the entire world. 
If India has any strength, its strength is first to be used for the solution of our own national 
problems and then for the support of the independence and individuality of other countries, 
specially, developing countries. 


This 1s the philosophy which was the basis of our position in Simla. We are sorry that 
some countries still choose to indulge in anti-India tirades. Any indulgence in dramatics 
by certain elements will not encourage friendship or understanding. 


I heard one hon. Member saying here that it was a matter of shame and sorrow that 
we kept on talking about friendship with certain countries when those countries did not 
wish to be friends. Now, it is not a question of who wished to be friends : it is a question 
of what we consider to be in our national interest. Other countries cannot be interested in 
our national interest. They will be interested in what they consider to be their national 
interest. But we have to pursue whatever steps, whatever policies, serve our interests, and 
which we think, are going to ultimately strengthen this nation. The Government of India 
is not ashamed {o pursue friendship. Saying that we want friendship with a particular nation 
is not going to weaken us. We have always stood for friendship with all nations. This does 
not mean that we beg for friendship. Not at all. We state our point of view when we are 
asked for it. If we are asked, “Do you want to be friends ?”, either we have to say yes or 
no. We cannot say anything in the middle. Therefore, we do believe in friendship with all 
nations. But we believe in friendship with honour, friendship with equality and friendship 


104 


which is to our mutual interest and benefit. It is that sort of friendship for which we are 
working. 


There is some concern in the press and elsewhere about the prisoners of war. I heard 
that one hon. Member was also very unhappy over this matter. The question of prisoners 
of war is not insoluble. Neither Bangladesh nor India has put any obstacles in the way of 
its solution. But to expect India to free the prisoners of war without the concurrence of 
Bangladesh is wholly illogical and unrealistic. Also, how can we take seriously the plea 
of those who raise the humanitarian side of the question when they are so strangely and 
suspiciously silent over the fate of over 4 lakh Bengali civilians and military personnel 
who have been dismissed from their jobs and herded into camps ? All the so-called world 
opinion which is agitating today about the prisoners of war has no thought of these poor 
people. So far as we are concerned, we are not interested in keeping them. It is a burden 
to us and it does not help our policy in any way. But certain international realities have to 
be understood and faced. You cannot ignore the existence of Bangladesh or the interest 
which Bangladesh has in this question. 


2K मं मर a 2K और ae aK a 


I am only one head of Government, Mishraji.* We are not stopping any meeting; we 
are not interfering in this matter. Bangladesh is an independent sovereign nation and must 
be treated as such. 


Now, a rather very important problem is that of law and order and of violence. It has 
been stated in this House that violence has grown and that the law and order situation has 
deteriorated because we have roused the expectations of the people. I hope the hon. 
members will consider this statement in some depth. What is the alternative ? Either you 
tell people about their right or you tell them that they should remain suppressed. There is 
no middle way. If you want to change society, then the changes must bring certain benefits 
to those who have not so far had them. The only other way is to keep the status quo, which 
means that those who have so far been neglected remain neglected. 


One of the weaknesses of our country was the apathy of the so-called weaker sections... 


eto HOH rk 2 a a 


The performance is going ahead**. If some people do not want to see anything. 


etc ek ak ak ak ak 


No. It was spectacular until 1962. After that there were many many difficulties***. 
As I said earlier, there is no galloping, it 1s a slow forward movement. Nevertheless it is a 
forward movement. It is not a static situation..:(/nterruptions) But what is strange are 


* Replying to Shri Shyamnandan Mishra’s remark : ‘“‘Why don’t all the three heads meet ?” 
** Replying to Shri Shyamnandan Mishra's remark: “You want to change the status quo through promise or 
performance?” 
*** Replying to Shri Jyotirmoy Bosu’s remark : “Spectacular performance !” 


105 


POTS 220: 


Beet 


re, 


2०:०० 
eae 
1202 


MA ERLE TS SANE SE कि 
:22:2%7622% 00220 :22:% 
हु eee ना Seren 
BAD SLAPS Rea an ea a KS 
PRR Ra pat 
: IO 3 NE er 


Pee tet 


oe Dr as, ee 
22223 5 10००/0,०५०८२:4212:0000 27% 2 
PISS Sassen Seven abe ities et os 52 
ARR RRS Bear RR RE BOSS 
2: 
POPP PO ०००००) ४ 


Reco ८००१५ 
PENG 22220 2078 
eS 

a 7s" 

22022. 2207. 


22 92 
Seen 
23:52 


sens 
Si 


Cas @ 
Ea latter an 
ee ECO T O 
SO oe 


Ade 
Ys “a 7 
ee ४४८ 


Sater a ae 
4 ta 283 
= 
os 
ay 


aes 


the methods employed by the opposition. I do not know whether this is supposed to improve 
performance or to improve the law and order situation—these methods seem to be intended 

“to create as much agitation and disturb as many things as possible. So far, I have not been 
able to see any constructive method nor, with all respect to the hon. members opposite, 
have I heard a word from the Opposition parties condemning such violence or the sabotage 
which has taken place... (/nterruptions) 


ak ak ak 2k ek ak मं 


The CRP is normally asked for by the State Government when they feel that the 
situation cannot be met by ordinary means.* There is no doubt that in many places the 
loss of property and life would have been far greater had it not been for the C.R.P. 


I see that friends from Andhra and Telangana are present in force. I do not know what 
they are expecting me to say. Obviously, I cannot say very much. This problem has a long 
history. We did not create the problem. We are not writing on a clean slate. Whatever the 
situation today, it is the result of a number of things that happened over the years, involving 
many issues. The present trouble has not arisen out of anything which we have initiated. 


I am deeply concerned about what has happened in Andhra Pradesh. I have heart-felt 
sympathy for those who have suffered, for the loss of lives and other hardship. I have 
respect for the emotions of the people and, especially, of my sisters of all parts of Andhra 
Pradesh. I can understand their agony. The manner in which the situation has developed, 
the manner in which, if I may say so-I hope my friends would not mind—when 
misunderstandings arose, there was hardly any effort to explain the correct situation, and 
the misunderstandings were allowed to grow. And developments took quite a different turn. 


I have deliberately not spoken on this issue because I felt that it was not fair to 
pronounce judgements in such a highly emotional and surcharged atmosphere. We all know 
that whatever the motives, whatever the emotions—I am not passing judgement on them 
here-I am not saying whether they are nght or wrong, but we know that the movement 
has resulted in a great deal of violence. It has resulted in acts of sabotage ? The people 
who have interfered with the railways and other installations, are not ordinary people. They 
are people who obviously knew just what to do, in order to disrupt communications, the 
railway line or whatever it was. We know also that there was a certain amount of coercion. 
Several people have written to me telling how they were forced to put their names on to a 
Statement or to say something, etc. All these things have happend... 


He oe ae मं: se अर मेष ae ae 
They were not M.Ps. and they were not legislators**. They happen to be a very large 


number of people in Andhra Pradesh and even though Mr. Piloo Mody has been there, I 
probably know a larger number than he does. 


* Responding to Shri S.A. Shamim’s remark : “CRP atrocities.” 
** Replying to Shri Piloo Mody’s remark : ‘That must be your own MPs.” 


106 


The students and the NGOs who have taken a prominent part in the struggle have been 
the ones to have suffered most. The students in their studies and the time they have lost, 
and the NGOs and their families in many other ways. And, of course, the ordinary, common 
people have also suffered great hardships. I am deeply sorry for all this, but we are told 
that one of the reasons for this agitation is economic backwardness and economic disparity 
or that some people have been made to feel second-class citizens. All kinds of things have 
been said and there may be some justification for them. But, backwardness can only be 
fought by pooling our resources in unison, not in isolation. And, the destruction of public 
property cannot but make the country poorer. Most of the property destroyed, — apart from 
a couple of house - and so on - are utility services used by the ordinary, average citizen. 


Not only has there been suffering during the struggle, but hardship due to interruption 
of communications and other things is going to continue for a long time; since it is not 
possible to repair them. I don’t know whether it is fair to ask that other projects be given 
up in order to give priority to this work. 


All I want to say is that decisions cannot be taken on the streets, or under any type of 
pressure. There must be calm and rational thinking. There must be discussion on all aspects 
of the problem. We know that no solution, however good a solution it is, can ever be the 
last solution or the perfect solution. Any solution to this problem or to other problems raises 
a number of new questions and problems. I should like to know what the answers to these 
problems are. Some problems we already know. Others will arise. What will be the answer 
to them ? I have met and am meeting a large number of people, M.Ps. and others who are 
coming. I have met those who stand for integration for one State, I have met those who 
are today speaking of separation, and I have also met those who are trying to bridge the 
gap between the two. I have told them, as I have stated publicly, that all aspects and all 
Opinions will be given due consideration. (Jnterruptions) As 1 said, all opinions that are 
expressed, all aspects of the problem which have been brought before me, will be given 
due consideration, but the decision must be taken in a calm and unexcited atmosphere. 


He और ak ae af OHO 


These decisions cannot be made that way*. May be, the Telengana people, having had 
their agitation, have remained peaceful afterwards. But now the other people are having 
an agitation. One cannot say that there is peace. 


मं: ai मै ate ae मर ae oe ak 


It has certainly to be left to the Government, not to me alone, but to the Government.** 
In a democratic system, the decisions are taken by Government and not just by the 
Opposition or by people collecting on the roads. 


ai akc भर ae aie अर ae oe ofc 


* Replying to Shri S.B. Giri’s remarks : “We are waiting for your announcement. We are peacefully agitating for it. 
There was no violence in Telengana. It is better to announce it immediately. There is agony among the people 
** Replying to Shri Piloo Mody’s remarks : “I would like to know, is there no democratic process by which this decision 
can be taken? Does it have to be left to you and to you alone ?" 


107 


Only when people are calm and they can talk about it rationally and in an unexcited 
_ Manner can the discussions go on properly; and anyhow, at this moment we are in the 
- midst of the discussions. * 


KK मं: ae ak a 3 oh 


My request and appeal to students would be to resume their studies and to all 
Government servants, especially the NGOs who have suffered so greatly and are undergoing 
hardships to resume their duties. (/nterruptions). 


As you have seen in the newspapers, whenever and wherever peace is restored and 
there is no longer danger in a particular area, the CRP and the Army units are being 
withdrawn 


Therefore, let us all think calmly on these questions and on all the likely repercussions 
of whatever decision is taken. 


Some hon. Members felt that we had not said enough about education or about students. 


मै 2k ak 6k Ok ok ak 


Obviously, this is a question with which we are all deeply concerned, and Government 
is trying to deal with it.** It is not an easy problem because it is touched by all that happens 
in the country. 


The other day, somebody camc to see me, I cannot remember who; he said that a person 
was scolding some students and others for making a noise and the manner in which they 
were behaving. One student turned and said ‘Sir, are we worse than Parliament ?’, and no 
answer could be given. 


a ae और He ok जे we ae a 


This was a thought which arose in a person’s mind. (/nterruptions). 1 am not feeling 
proud at all***. Nobody will and nobody could possibly feel proud. But this is the view 
of someone who has nothing to do with our party or politics. This was a spontaneous remark 
by a young person... ह 


a जद ak ah ake a He a 


No matter what the purpose is ...(/nterruptions). I am not exempting anybody. But 
anybody who sits in the visitors’ galleries or sees the record will know who makes more 
noise (Interruptions). The Opposition is welcome to attack the Government; and if they 
think that making baseless personal allegations is going to strengthen them, let them make 


* Replying to Shri Shyamnandan Mishra’s remark : “How long is the gestation period going to be 7” 
** Replying to Shri 0. Viswanathan’s remark : “So, Andhra is over?” 
*** Replying to Shri Shyamnandan Mishra's remarks, “It is a very unkind remark, so far as Parliament is concerned. If 
the Prime Minister is speaking this with approbation, then it is the unkindest out of all, and the Prime Minister 
should not feel proud of it...” 


168 हि 


them. I do not wish to comment on what happens in the House, because you, Sir, are witness 
to it all the time...(/nterruptions). On the rare occasion when one of our Member tries to 
1186 to say something, then the entire Opposition gets up to shout him down. If this is the 
Opposition’s version of democracy — well, it is not my version — nor do I think that this 
can work. 


af ek ak fe मं mee मं 


We are not in Parliament to play political games; we are here to build the nation. 1 
think the majority of our people have accepted the path which we have outlined. It is true 
that we have made mistakes, but we try to correct them. We have shortfalls in our 
programmes. But as I said earlier, we are nevertheless going ahead. In spite of the most 
tremendous difficulties which any people have ever faced in the long history of the world 
or especially this continent. 


Parliament should reflect the people’s will and by the quality of discussion. I think 
they should educate our people... 


ae ak ok ok ak मर kok 


One hon. Member has spoken of scapegoats. I seek no scapegoat. I have never been 
one to shirk my responsibility. It is the Opposition which 1s seeking scapegoats for 15 
inability to formulate any policy which they can put before the country or for them to find 
popular support. 


One hon. Member spoke about a sort of what he called the motley crowd 1n our party. 
We do have people of different opinions in our party. We have a range of opinions, but 
that enuire range is contained within the main policy which we want to pursue and to which 
we are committed. But look at the hon. Members opposite. What is there in common 
between the policies of the Swatantra and the CPI (M), for instance ? 


मंद ic और मैप ae और ae और ae 


But they are always together. They function together. After consulting outside, they 
come in and have a united forum here. 


OK मं 4OHOK ae मर 


In all seriousness, I should like to say that what the Opposition is doing in India is 
weakening the will of our people (/nterruptions.) It is belittling the achievements of our 
people (/nterruptions). Why are they so touchy, Sir ? They abuse us in the worst possible 
language and we are supposed to listen to them and we do, but they are not prepared to 
listen to even a small remark. 


The world situation is changing. The situation in Asia is also a fluid one. If I may repeat 
what I said in my party meeting, this is a time when long-established patterns in many 
parts of the world are changing, are shifting. It is a time when the entire Indian nation 
must be extremely vigilant and on its toes, so as to be aware of any nuances that take 
place (Interruptions).—including the Opposition—that is what I am just trying to say. 


109 


In these situations which are forming and unforming, we must be on the look-out for 
_ the dangers that can arise for India. We must all keep before us a picture of a country 
which is socially better, economically stronger and intellectually and morally free. 


कं कं a ae i ak me के a 


Therefore, Sir, I appeal to my party, to the Opposition parties, to rise to the great 
challenge of the moment, to justify the faith which the people have reposed in Parliament. 
We are, as I said, at the juncture where faith and hard work can and will see us over this 
difficult hump. Let us not fail the nation. 


So, Sir, I request all hon. Members not to press their amendments and to support the 
motion on the President’s Address. 


110 


Challenges Before the Nation* 


Mr. Chairman, Sir, once again we have had a long debate on some of the major issues 
which are confronting the nation. Hon. Members have given many useful suggestions and 
there have also been many criticisms. We do not resent many criticism. In fact, no individual 
or Government who 18 anxious of achievement can resent criticism because that is one of 
the ways of finding out our shortcomings or mistakes and we have never said that we are 
immune from making mistakes. Anybody facing the vast challenge of lifting a country 
almost from one age to another must chart many new courses and in that process one cannot 
get much help here or from outside. Therefore, at this time there has to be a certain amount 
of experimentation and some risk taken. So some are unavoidable mistakes. But in spite 
of these shortfalls and mistakes, our country has been steadily going forward. There have 
been many obstacles which we could not have foreseen. There has been aggression. And 
yet, sometimes slowly, sometimes a little fast, we have been making some steady progress 
in every direction. We welcome any suggestion or criticism made by hon. Members of 
the Opposition or from our own side. But when a government or a party 1s accused of 
totalitarianism or of murdering democracy in West Bengal, I believe this was the phrase 
used by one hon. Member**-—it is hard to take it seriously. The party which made this 
accusation is not a party given to a sense of humour, if I may say so with all respect. Hence, 
for it to make such an allegation merely points to its own mental make-up and perhaps to 
some deep-laid plan. I do not want to go into the question of what is democracy and what 
is not democracy. I do think that senior Members of the House should at some time, go 
into this matter in depth what democracy is practised in other known democratic countries; 
what is the role of the Opposition in those countries and what are the responsibilities which 
the different parties undertake, and so on. 


How much time does the Government or do the Ministers give to the ordinary people 
? There are many such questions which will arise if you study this question, rather than 
the present fashion of talking loosely about democracy. 


Some time one person uses a phrase, and others take it up and nobody stops to think 
whether there is any truth in it or what the actual situation is. The hon. Member** who 
made this remark in this House was referring specially to West Bengal. The story of West 
Bengal is not unknown to the hon. Members of the House or to the public of India or, I 
would go even further to say of the rest of the world. While those developments were 


* Replying to the debate on the Motion of Thanks on the President's Address, R.S. Deb., 28 February, 1973, 
cc. 211-32. 


** Shri Niren Ghosh. 


taking place it was a matter of sorrow for all of us and specially for the ordinary people of 
Bengal. When his party was in power, their actions are not the subject of guess work; but 
of documented history. The number of actual man-days lost because of civil strife, the 
number of political clashes, the political deaths, developments in factories all these are 
not matters of conjecture; they are matters about which information can be got in many 
places. What has happened to Bengal since then is also known to hon. Members. I would 
say it is one of the greatest stories of political renewal in the history of democracy. It is 
how the people themselves asserted their views, their resentment over the violence there. 
It is only recently that some thousands of our own party workers went to Calcutta—in 
December—and they saw for themselves the change in the atmosphere which has taken 
place. Not only they but also people from all sections and from all parts of the country, 
who know Bengal and who have travelled there, have been deeply impressed and full of 
admiration for the many improvements which have taken place, specially in the economic ee 
field. There has been an increase in the public sector production. If I may mention a specific is 
instance, I would mention Durgapur. And with greater co-operation between management 
and labour—as the President has urged in his Address—I am sure that production will increase 
sul] further. Anyhow, the people of Bengal saw to it that the machinations of violence would 
not succeed. 


Wa / ७० 


= 
(९७ पक ee 
Con 22000 नी ane Oana 
ie as Pol gel a ta fatale’ iat a 
a aera SAO aaa RS A Sta 


५०4६ 
es 
1०६९ 

५० 
KS 


१३८०८ 
Fd 


One hon’ble Member has also stated that the policies of the Congress Government 
would break up the country. Which party could wish for the country’s breakup ? Would it 
be a party which during all its existence has firmly stood and has consistently struggled 
for the freedom and unity of the country-freedcm, when we were under a colonial power, 
and now, freedom of judgment, of assessment and of action ? Or would it be those who 
refer to Indians speaking different languages as having different nationalities ? I hope that 
hon. Members noted the strange meaning given to this word by the hon’ble Member. 


One of the most urgent problems to which most members made reference and for which 
we in the Government as individuals and as Ministers have the deepest concer, is the’ 2 
hardship that is being caused because of the drought in parts of our country. : 
22222 


An hon. Member purported to quote me as having said that there was no food:shortage. 
I must tell him that I have never said this. Obviously I could not have made such a remark. 
All that I have said is that the shortage has been greatly exaggerated. The shortage is in 
pockets in the country and where it exists, the situation is serious. It 1s not a matter which 
one Can ignore and the shortage is not one merely of foodgrains, it is also of fodder and 
of drinking water. These two are causing as much hardship as the shortage of foodgrains. 
But there is no doubt that the psychology which was built up did result in a mentality 
where greater shortage was caused, that is when a number of people—I am not speaking of 
the big hoarders though there may be big hoarders. When the ordinary householders feel 
that there is danger of difficulty in getting goods and therefore decide to keep just a little 
more than their actual requirements. In a country where the population is huge, this could 
make an enormous difference to the overall stock. This is : what | have said. Difficulties 
are there but they are not such as cannot be faced with courage. The question is : are we 
going to exploit these difficulties for political gains or are we going to say that this is a 


22222 222 ee ae 7, 
:22222:2::2227£ 


! 


national problem, this is a situation where people are suffering and so we must get together 
to see how we can mitigate their hardship in every possible way ? Naturally, the heaviest 
responsibility lies on the Government to organise effective relief. No matter what we do, 
Obviously we cannot create conditions of a normal rainfall. We can only help people to 
tide over an extremely difficult situation. However the scale of relief this year has been a 
very vast one, bigger than ever envisaged before. Ninety thousand relief-works of all kinds 
are going on in the affected areas and Rs. 445 crores have been allotted for this work and 
for the other needs of these areas. The House knows that we have prepared a special food 
plan for 1973-74 which will increase the rabi-production and which gives inputs for higher 
kharif output. We have news from the States that these steps have had an impact already. 


There are special programmes for improving the conditions of water supply for trying 
to lessen the hardships with regard to cattle, i.e., fodder, and so on and very special attention 
is being given to the generation and availability of power. 


The Minister of Irrigation has made several statements on this matter. The power 
shortage 1s partly because we did not envisage how much our needs and our demands would 
grow, and how quickly but also because when much of our power 1s dependent on water 
and when there was such a shortfall of rain and snow in the last two years, this was bound 
to affect the power supply as well. Anyhow, we are looking into this matter with great 
urgency and I hope the situation will improve. It 1s affecting the national economy. 


We have a long-term strategy for the areas and sections of people which are dependent 
on rainfall. The dry areas programme gives special attention to jowar and bajra production. 
Normally there is attempt to have the same type of pattern regardless of type of land in 
the country but we now have to look into the matter from an entirely fresh point of view 
and see how it can be dealt with, what new crops on industries can be developed, what 
new pattern can be evolved so that people do not have so much hardship merely because 
of the weather. 


I would like to assure the hon. Members that we have equal concern for every State of 
India. When the question of drought is considered, equal consideration 1s given to every 
State or that part of the State which is suffering from drought. I am sorry and it is a matter 
of distress that some States have the feeling that a particular State is getting more than 
another and this unfortunately becomes a matter for competition. 


As I said earlier this is an issue on which we must all, regardless of our other 
differences, have only one purpose, how we can unitedly help those who are suffering. I 
would appeal to the Opposition Members, to our party and even those who do not belong 
to any party, not to consider this matter as a political or a partisan one. There is tremendous 
scope for co-operation in meeting this greatest challenge of the moment. When we had 
the severe drought in 1966-67, which affected Bihar and Eastern U.P., this very crisis 
provided the added impetus to achieve national self-sufficiency. So we should utilise this 
crisis, this drought, to spur our effort to achieve a breakthrough in dealing with the dry 
belt in India. That is the belt which has been mostly affected this time. 


Some hon. Members have expressed doubts about the efficiency of the working of our 
take-over of the wholesale trade. I do not want to go into details here but every step is 
being taken to see that the work is done efficiently, and that the best possible people are 
used for it. Naturally when one attempts something new there can be difficulties and 
especially in a measure like this there is tremendous organised resistance from political 
parties and from others interested that it should not succeed. So, that may have a little 
effect. But avoiding the measure for this reason will not help. Past experience of the actions 
of some of these people has not been a good one and that has also left considerable room 
for improvement in efficiency, honesty and so on. It is for all our Parliament Members 
and others to point out where the difficulties might arise, where inefficiency comes in and 
to see how this can be avoided or mitigated or removed. 


The question of employment is a major one. I do not want to go into the whole question 
here but it is sometimes felt that the special programmes which we took in hand have not 
worked. Now this is not true; when a programme is initiated it does take time for it to get 
off the ground and to show results. We announced the programme quite some time ago. I 
was also concerned about its progress. I have personally taken up this matter with Chief 
Ministers and other people concemed. The programmes are having effect now and people 
are being employed. We never said, nor did we think, that these particular schemes would 
solve the entire unemployment problem. Only further development can solve that and we 
are trying to see that the Plans and projects help in the absorption of our talented manpower. 
In the meantime the schemes that had been thought of are beginning to work and are helping 
a number of unemployed. 


Now, Sir, it was also stated in this House that for the last 10 years heavy industrics at 
Ranchi and the steel factories have not produced even 50 per cent of their capacity and 
this was used as an excuse to speak against the expansion of our stcel plants. I do not 
think any useful purpose is served in going into the past. Our projects have had a number 
of problems, teething troubles, technical problems, the management trying to learn an- 
entirely new job, labour troubles, political troubles and so on. 


What is important is not what has happened but what we are doing now to solve these 
problems. Government has done a great deal during the last one or two years and I am 
glad to say that production has steadily improved. The capacity utilisation in the steel sector 
is 67 per cent as against 59 per cent carlier and this will go up to 77 per cent this year, 
1973. In fact an improvement is discernible in most public enterprises. Government will 
push ahead with this improvement. I hope that this does not frighten any of our Members 
because the public sector which they flogged and jeered at and which gave them talking 


points for so many years, is no longer going to oblige them. It is now making good. 
The other question, which is of interest to hon. Members, is the formation of a holding 2 


41 
ey: 
५ 


company for steel. One hon. Member described it as unrealistic and undemocratic. Some 
thought that it might lessen Parliament’s control. Nothing can be farther from the facts. If 
hon. Members had taken the trouble to look into the details of the constitution, powers 
and functions of the Steel Authority, they would see that the whole structure is designed 
to ensure genuine accountability to Parliament. Parliament will continue to exercise control 


22८ 222 Rey AOL 2; ४2८ SO: 

222 22 22222: Leto ४2: etic: 222 pee 42222 ey BE 
22222: Me 22222 7225 2८222 2:26 222 22 22222 tania 
22:22: 22:22 EGE ie EE LOGE GEE CO OSL OOD STR SERS ILLS SAIS, 


114 


over the Steel Authority Limited, as it does in the case of other public enterprises in the 
form of voting on Government investments, considering the report of the Auditor-General 
etc. For long we have considered accountability as something synonymous with a mere 
observance of the rules. We want to change this and have a more realistic approach. 


In Parliament and outside, we constantly hear about the need for reform, whether it is 
administrative reform, or educational reform. It is felt that the structure should be changed. 
And yet when any reform is undertaken there is a great deal of timidity about it. People 
are immediately worried about the risks involved and how it will work. Nothing in this 
world is without risk. Even crossing a road entails risk. If one wants to go ahead, one just 
has to take those risks. Government is determined to go ahead with administrative forms 
on a wide front. A holding company in one sector is only the beginning. Similar 
arrangements may have to be made in a few other sectors also. It may not be the only 
answer in every case. We do not Say it is. We may have to look for other answers but we 
must be prepared for broad experiments and to take risks if we are to get out of the rut in 
the field of administration. 


There are other questions which have been with us for a long time. There is the question 
of minorities, the treatment of minorities, atrocities against Harijans. These questions are 
part of our national life, part of national history and part of our present endeavour—the 
endeavour of all parties and the country. Basically what do we want to do ? My own 
approach is known to the House. In my view there are two apsects of the problem. There 
is the human aspect, individuals suffering because of difficulues either of religion or of 
not having sufficient places in the Services. That is one part, but the second part is that in 
u nation which faces a tremendous challenge, we simply cannot afford to have any 
community neglected or backward. For whatever reason it may be and however small their 
number may be they are part of the national human resources. They are part of the national 
wealth and, therefore, it is our duty to see that whatever grievances they have should be 
removed and they should be strengthened in order to bear their own responsibilities and 
the burden of taking our country forward and solving its many problems. Unfortunately 
these matters are sought to be exploited politically or for some other reason, and this makes 
it difficult to go ahead. Sometimes the minorities themselves are taken in by slogans and 
their attention 1s diverted from what could really make them stronger and enable them to 
face the difficulties and problems into various sidelanes which give rise to agitation and 
involvement in acrimonious debate and argument. While they are so involved the 
programme which should be undertaken 1s neglected and 11. seems to lose its priority as if 
1 were of minor concem. Special measures are being taken to remove these grievances. 
With regard to the services, perhaps, hon. Members are aware of what is being done in 
West Bengal. We are trying to follow this in other States. But a special effort should be 
made that at all levels of appointments people-from the minorities should not only be 
considered but should be helped to get employment. Similarly, wherever there is any 
difficulties, we must all see that it does not become a matter which divides us but one in 
which we all get together to see how we can help. While such a language grievance remains, 
there cannot be full unity. We have sven the situation in different parts of the country. I 
am referring to all languages, not only Urdu because there has been trouble in other parts 


ees rule era mers ena a ३220 oe 
see 20220 ee og 
10070, 3०% rane £ a e ue 


20.20. eS 11274 5, 22% ¥ 

x Deena Ste ae कीट, wate 58: i 
"5४२० BA atten SePa 1१01०, कप ee 
पट ट 25% :527:::2:55:2%:272082507:000::/ 22: 


of the country over other languages also. We have always regarded Urdu as one of the 
Indian languages ; it is definitely an Indian language, it is not a foreign language by any 
reckoning. It is a language which has provided rich literature and beautiful poetry, and it 
would be like throwing away our wealth if we do not develop Urdu or if we try to give it 
an inferior position. We are seeing how Urdu can be helped: Certain steps have been taken 
in Bihar and in U.P. regarding the teaching of Urdu and for the appointment of teachers 
for Urdu. Other steps are being considered. 


Similarly, with regard to what are known as the backward classes or the Harijans, it is 
a matter of shame for the country that we have had caste system which has discriminated 
against our own people, our own brothers and sisters. The Congress and the great leaders 
of the Congress gave this question the utmost importance and high priority. They 
endeavoured to change this attitude of mind. Important Congressmen sacrificed their lives 
in order to prevent such discrimination between one religion and another or between one 
caste and another. But the disease 1s still with us. Some of the so-called atrocities have 
also been taking place for many years. But today, because of greater awareness they come 
to light. Previously we did not always get news of such happenings. It is good that now 
they come to light. This gives the opportunity of dealing with this question in a much more 
systematic and firm manner. But unless we have the support of all the MPs, all the MLAs, 
all the local leadership and the people, it will not be possible to do much. There cannot be 
protection to every village or to every group of houses. It 18 only if there is an alertness 
amongst the neighbours, if we can inculcate the nght attitude of mind and approach towards 
the weaker sections, that this matter can be dealt with. In the meantime, we are taking 
steps, we are not just shelving the issue. I have recently spoken to the Chief Ministers that 
they should take a personal interest and that they should institute a cell or unit, whatever 
they would like to call it. This cell should be vigilant and should act immediately when 
any incident takes place, whether of a communal nature or concerning Harijans or Adivasis. 
I found that all Chief Ministers were equally concerned about this matter, and I am sure 
that they will follow up this idea. 


One of the grievances ventilated outside has been with regard to the Aligarh University. 
Now we in the Government have always been anxious that this great seat of learning, which 
1S an institution of national importance should maintain its distinct character. We stand for 
greater academic freedom in this university as well as in all other universities. 
Representatives of the academic community have met the Education Minister recently, and 
have made certain suggestions. Ideas for improving the institution are always welcome 
from this as well as from any other university. But some of the problems are part of the 
much bigger problems of educational reform. People ask for educational reform, for 
changing of the structure of education and so on, but whenever anything is sought to be 
done, there is hesitancy and we seem to branch off into other arguments in which education 
is forgotten, and all kinds of things are trotted out. Elements of communalism are also 
injected as if these were something specifically against one particular community. I would 
very strongly like to reaffirm that this is not true. Whether we are Hindus or Muslims or 
Sikhs or Christians or of any other religion, we must consider the future of this country 
and what relation education has to that future. I am glad that some of our senior members 


116 


raised the question of education. It is one of the more serious questions before the country. 
Other matters, such as, drought or unemployment or the difficulties of production and 
industry are all passing phases. Many such problems have come and we have solved them. 
Now they are past and other problems have arisen. But education is something which is 
going to be with us for as long as the country itself exists and it will always be in need of 
reforms. At this juncture this matter is more urgent because it has not changed for a very 
longtime. But no matter how many changes and reforms we bring about, reform must be 
a continuous process. As society changes, as the demands of the people or the needs of 
humanity change, education must keep pace with it if it has any relevance and meaning to 
our development. Education begins as Ganga Babu has rightly said, from the moment the 
child is born. We are paying special attention to pre-school child. We are trying to see 
how all these programmes can be co-ordinated—nutrition, health, attitude towards the nation 
and one’s surroundings, the neighbourhood and so on. The other day I had a visit from 
the President of the International Assoication for the Blind. I was struck by what he said 
that if a little attention is given to the baby, that is, if the baby is fed something green, a 
large number of cases of blindness, somc lakhs of cases, would not occur. This is such a 
small matter. Any school, health centre or community development centre can take up this 
work. It does not have to be a special programme. I personally think that prevention of 
illness, knowledge of nutrition, eye care and ecology, these are all part of education. We 
should coordinate all these matters. 


Any reform that we shall think of 1s going to disturb some vested interest or another 
of some religion, of some language or of some strata in society; we have to be prepared 
fcr this resistance. If we are serious about wanting reforms, wanting to change the structure, 
then we have a positive responsibility in seeing that these reforms go through and that 
when there is agitation, let us not subside or decide to take the line of least resistance saying 
“Well there are some people who are in trouble; let us support their cause”. Every minor 
cause has to be set aside before the larger cause of this nation’s progress. It is in that light 
that you must judge what cause is to be supported any where. We have to face issues boldly 
and state what is necessary for the country and therefore for the people themselves. 
Sometimes people may think they have a genuine grievance. But the things they ask for 
are the very things that will keep them backward. We see this not only in regard to such 
matter as reform but even in regard to the development of certain areas. People sometimes 
take a position which will not help them to grow. It may help them marginally, but it will 
not enable them to break out of the rut. This 1s a question for all responsible people, in 
politics or outside to consider. 


We must change our educational structure. Certainly it must help our young people to 
get better employment. But I do not think it should be merely employment-oriented. That 
would be a very narrow way to look at development of personality or to see the future of 
our country. Employment itself is not static. Today there are certain needs, and certain 
jobs are available. It may be that five years hence you need other jobs. Then, if a person 
has a vety specialised training for a particular job, will he be able to face the challenge of 
such a change ? So, both these have to be considered : the total personality of the individual 
and also how he can deal with a particular job and whether he is suited for the jobs which 


117 


io 


are available. Along with that if he can be given—I do not know whether this is possible— 
the kind of training which will make him a self-reliant, resourceful and adaptable individual, 
then it does not matter what he has learnt or has not learnt, he will be able to face crisis or 
challenge that might arise. This is what our educational system and our colleges and schools 
should aim at. 


Most educational experts in the world are today in favour of curtailing university 
education. But we know that in this country this poses a special problem for us. Those 
people who have not had the opportunity of university education for all these centuries 
naturally feel that such a curtailment will affect them and that education will continue to 
have a kind of class bias. Surely we do not want that. We have to find a balance in which 
there can be some changes without shutting off opportunity from persons or families who, 
for the first time, are in a position to avail themselves of it. So, any problem which even 
eminent educationists of another country think of has to be looked at in the circumstances 
which obtain in our country. We have no guidelines in this we have no examples which 
we can follow. We have to know our own path step by step. It can only be done if we 
think more deeply about all these matters and if we are willing to make expenments. In 
most of the so-called advanced countries there are hundreds of new schemes being chalked 
out all the time. Some work, some do not work. But even the failures give experience 
which helps to plan out the future policy of Government or educational authorities. If we 
are afraid of failure, if we are afraid of mistakes, then we just cannot get out of the rut. 


Much is said about standards of public life. I am one of those who have always laid 
very great stress on them. If we want to make India a special place, a better place, then 
standards have obviously to be raised all along the line. Public life or private life, the 
question is what sort of a country we want. [tis very difficult to separate private life from 
public life. If a person is doing something in private life, you cannot expect him to be 
better in public life or vice versa. ; 


Therefore the two are very closely bound together and there is no doubt that steps should 
be taken to improve the level of national life. But here again we try somehow to over- 
simplify the matter. If one merely moves from one house to another, is it going to help 
raise the standards ? It may perhaps give an impression to the public that one is living 
more simply. I know people who live very simply, but they may have large bank accounts. 
I am not judging whether this is good or not. What I am saying is this : let us not concentrate 
on a single point. Standards are a much wider matter. There must be simplicity in our 
country. I personally believe in simplicity not only as a duty but even from the point of 
view of elegance. What is simple is far more effective and much of the modern world is 
coming round to that thinking. I do believe in simplicity. But some of the phrases which 
we use are not conducive to real simplicity. The Government has a far greater responsibility 
for setting an example. But other people have also a responsibility. So has the Opposition. 
Standards are not merely in how you live, but in how you speak, in how you act and in 
what you do outside. Some opposition parties have deliberately taken a decision that all 
my meetings would be disturbed. Now, is this part of democratic functioning ? Is this laying 
high standards in public life ? I do not see anybody criticising such attitude. Look at the 
language that is used in these agitations. Have hon. Members tried to find out what is being 


'-, हर if 1 ta हे. we c ‘ ° = ebeges eede=s o o epee tasceretpoese ns Dee es 4ebeivea कक ; e = 5 . का eeeese c= = = oo a own ah = Oo x 1 a! छा 
PD ARSE ANI पाप TANS ae BVO ८४५४५ SAR ०३7००८२--:-०:७०८०::०२:: ४०४ धन ० ६5:77: :77::70:%::%555००८०८००८:००००००००००००८०००२०००:००००० ८८८२४ ८००००००००८००५५००::००००::००००००:- ०7००० “77220: 7:20: ::7:3207०:.००८-८०:४:००००:००-:००००८००7०२०-२०००:८४८::८ 
हट Boat पीवी “st ware ०, 4 cs ‘ ve (5५ है 


12:28 


SN पनीर के RECA RRR SD oats: A : vs 
2४ ASST SE ECC aN St OY RAR OREN BE RRSP EES 
7% ~ ae Seen Sees 

४५4 Peer 


said ? I have not heard a single person criticising the kind of vulgarity that is sometimes 
heard and witnessed. When we talk of standards, let us keep m mind the bigger field in 
which everybody is concerned. And I hope those people who are bothered about standards 
will look into all aspects. 


One of our other problems is an old one not so old as some of the other matters I have 
mentioned, but which is a long-standing one in independent India. And that is what is 
happening in Andhra Pradesh. There is an agitation there. There may be genuine grievances. 
First there was grievance on one side. There was violence. Not very good language was 
used. But somehow it calmed down and we were thinking of what steps to take so that 
their genuine grievances could be removed. Some steps were taken and we were going 
ahead. Then something happened and the whole question which seemed to be settled and 
moving towards solution was suddenly reactivated. And what was the result ? Now we 
have another agitation, again with violence—violence in deed and violence in words, 
combined with well-organised sabotage. Public property worth crores has been destroyed. 
Does that help the people? Even if you take the limited problem of Andhra Pradesh who 
is it who has suffered by the agitation ? It is the poor people, it is the average man who 
has suffered. The lines of the trains that he uses have been disturbed. The post office which 
he uses is unable to function. Rich people can get to Hyderabad and come to Delhi by 
plane. It is the ordinary people who have suffered. It is the students—although they are in 
the thick of the trouble—who have suffered. They have lost time. Anything can be got back, 
but when you lose one or two years, they are not going to come back. They have lost 
them for all time. And even Government servants have suffered great hardships during 
this agitation. Now there is a new ruling which puts the whole question of the Mu/ki Rules 
into a kind of melting pot. And I am told that another ruling is expected. So the situation 
is a Changing one. I do not know what this ruling will be or what the effect of the other 
ruling on Mulkis will be ? We are going into all these matters. 


The point is this : It is said that this agitation has arisen because of economic disparities, 
because some people thought that they did not get their due share and afterwards the others 
were made to feel that they were in their own words, “Second-class citizens’. In our country, 
while the Constitution guarantees equality, there are many who, because of social and 
economic conditions, do not have the same rights of citizenship in practice as they have 
in the Constitution or in theory. This is true of the people in the hill areas ; it is true of the 
Adivasis ; 1 is true of many Harijans ; and it is true of people in very backward regions in 
every State. But can we start an agitation just for this reason ? We have to see all aspects 
of the question. No Government can function if decisions are to be taken on the streets, if 
decisions are to be taken merely because people get emotionally surcharged. Whatever 
the decision, 1. has to be taken in a calm and cool manner, after rational discussion and 
after considering all the problems that are going to arise. As I said in this very House during 
the last Session, suppose there 1s a separate Andhra State. Is that the end of the problem 
or does 1 open the door to many new problems before the State can get going ? So, all 
these questions have to be discussed. I think that our own people are coming round to this 
view which I welcome. In a matter of this kind, which will affect the lives of millions of 
people, apart from not giving way to pressures, it is important to ensure that we do not 
coerce anybody. A large number of people feel that such conditions have been created there 


11282 oe f 
Mo, ze Re CRANE RSS SR Poe लक) 
oe SRS Soo 22: 


7 


MEST ee RSE eee 


3 RE ON ORES ON URIS RE IRON CNN TRIN oe ०2:५५ ER ROE RA RR Coe a TE CALAN 2: एक: एक चिट eerie DAO OBR 2:45 SPCR NOI TH IR BIE 
Rion Rar aoa ees RoR Se RRS Sec 2:00 ERR RIE ZEON NG ee oles a Rg oa ND RRR re eos Boece 22222: 2222 22222 
SESS 2222 20 6:70 72000 Rea ok a oe ERs SR RRO RN REEL aN BR EE CN RO SON 0220%02 We 22 52072 SAR a RR hte tea 002 ST ST RE Sa RRR 


vax 
ae 
Cie ar Patan 
SN BED NOD, 


४ 


that they are forced to put their names on to some document or forced to say something 
which, in their own heart of hearts they do not favour. 


At present I am meeting different kinds of people—those who stand firmly for 
integration, those who have begun speaking of separation and many other types of people 
in between these two. I have always been willing to talk to anybody who wants to come 
and express his views and I can only say that while nothing is conceded, nothing is ruled 
out on this point. 


Some political parties have thought of taking advantage of the situation, because they 
had no political foot-hold in Andhra. They think that an agitation of this kind, which seems 
to be very popular, will increase their strength. They have not confined themselves to the 
division of Andhra Pradesh; they have demanded a new States Reorganisation Commission. 
Now, Sir, whether it is a good thing to have more States or fewer States, that is not the 
pertinent point at this particular juncture. What is pertinent is this : Do we recognise that 
this is a difficult period for the country ? There are the difficulties which are inherent in 
development and growth which we are facing and there were difficulties that were created 
by others and the burdens, financial and otherwise, arising from the crisis in Bangladesh 
and Pakistan. Added to them 1s the hardship caused by the drought. This is no ordinary 
drought. It has spanned almost the whole world, at least our part of the world and it has 
activated many international organisations to try and arrange for world-wide action on it. 
Is this the time to raise questions or agitations which cannot but weaken the country ? 
Any agitation, however well motivated, is a weakening thing. In normal times it may not 
matter. But in times like this, where the international situation is fluid, where those who 
did not like the way India emerged during the last critical years, are working against us, it 
does matter. Very powerful forces are working against us, some openly and some not so 
openly, and in every possible way they will try to weaken the country. The situation can 
be assessed only if as a nation we are vigilant and if our attention is focussed on these 
matters to enable us to recognize any change and thus be prepared with our reaction. Is 
this the moment to re-open administrative and other problems which are going to shake 
the very foundations of this country ? 


I remember when the States Reorganization Commission was travelling around, I 
happened to be touring the whole country on my own, and everywhere I went, intellectuals, 
students, business people and others asked : ‘Why the Government embarked on this ? Is 
this the time for this ? Our attention should be on development’. We could only say, 
‘Perhaps it is better to do it now since this is a requirement. We were committed to linguistic 
States even before Independence. Hence it was better to do it once for all and get over 
with it, instead of postponing it for a time when development would be at a much more 
delicate and complicated stage’. Today development is at a delicate and extremely complex 
Stage, made more complicated by changes oucside the country. So, at this moment, for 
anybody to say that we should embark on a venture such as this is, if I may say so with 
all respect, highly irresponsible, and is not keeping the interests of the nation at heart or 
in mind. 


We have been told, and we do believe, that people’s participation is of the utmost 
importance. That is the meaning we have tried to give to our democracy. We do not regard 


120 


democracy as 1s done in some Western countries where they have merely two parties. Some 
people thought that since we have more than two parties here, ours is not really democratic 
functioning. The number of parties 18 not important. What is important is whether the entire 
people feel involved in the direction in which the country is moving and in the steps which 
have to be taken in order to achieve the type of future we want. So we must all be bridges. 
Ganga Babu may have meant it as a compliment. But you cannot have only one bridge. 
Every Member of Parliament has to be a bridge between Parliament and the people, between 
the Government and the people. And unless we can give this feeling to the people, unless 
the Opposition members also are conscious of their responsibility in this regard, we shall 
not have that functioning together which is essential at this stage of our development. 1 
am not passing the responsibility on to the Opposition. Far from it, it 15 the Government’s 
responsibility to evoke the right response in the public and to go ahead with its programmes. 
This is very important as in times of war. This also is a major battle ; 1t is not a battle with 
cannon or arms, it is a battle for national economic and social re-construction. The risk of 
failing is much greater than any failure in war-time. We do want to have a dialogue with 
the Opposition and we do want to have a working together. We cannot cooperate with 
them in every matter. If we differ and if we are at absolutely opposite sides of an economic 
matter, then nothing can be done on it. But there are many areas in which there can be 
cooperation. However I find that there is no desire for such a dialogue. It is for hon. 
Members to consider how they envisage the future and whether the tactics to which they 
are resorting can take us towards a bright future. Whether those tactics are going to mitigate 
the difficulties before the people or increase them is the question which only you yourselves 
can answer. 


Sir, 1am not going into the details of all the points. Many of our Members have replied 
to them already. I would request all hon. Members to think once more on these great 
problems and see whether we cannot present a united front which alone can bring a real, 
effective and visible victory to our country in every forum. I request hon. Members not to 
press their amendments and to support the Motion of Thanks to the President. 


121 


Reforms in the Food Policy* 


Sir, all the Members who have spoken have made a reference to the prevailing 
discontent and dissatisfaction in almost all section of the country. I myself have referred 
to this in my public utterances. I am, as Member of both sides of the House fully aware of 
the difficulties and the hardships which our people have had to face. I have expressed my 
deep sympathy with the people on account of these difficulties. I have not shirked the 
responsibility or, as, some hon. Members have tried to hint have tried to blame the 


opposition parties for the situation. But I do think that we need to look at this matter in a 
more objective manner. 


What exactly is the situation ? The last two years of these acute difficulties have 
followed months of a different type of crisis, the Bangladesh crisis, and what it involved 
for the entire nation in terms of money spent, in terms of political and social tension, 
followed by the war. It was a matter of pnde that our brave jawans and officers fought so 
well and won us such a laudable victory. But, unfortunately, it was a time of spending, 
followed by another period when more had to be spent in order to replace what we had 
Jost in that period. After that camc this severe drought which affected not only two-thirds 
of our country but very large portions of Asia and Africa. This phase of acute difficulty 
coincided with a 92104 when foreign aid was considerably reduced and all concessional 
food imports were totally stopped. In spite of all this, we have been able to manage our 
requirements with our own production, and what we did import was on commercial terms. 
The percentage of imports to the total public distributions during 1972-74 was very low 
comparcd to the earlier years. Our development outlays were stepped up and the maximum 
rclief was provided. At the same time as I mentioned earlier, defence needs were fully 
met. This is what the President obviously had in mind when he referred to the fact that we 
have been able to maintain our basic endeavour in spite of the major crises year after year 
during the last three years. 


Of course, the key problem to the economy is the food problem. Except in the drought 
years, the total issues of foodgrains through the public distribution system used to be 
between 3 and 8 million tons. In 1972 it was 10.6 million tons and in 1973 it was nearly 
12 million tons. This was managed with our own stocks and a small quantity of imports. 
In my humble opinion, if 1 may borrow Shri D.P. Dhar’s phrase, this was a major 
achievement.... 


* Replying to the debate on the Motion of Thanks on the President's Address, R.S. Deb., 28 February, 1974, cc. 84-101. 


122 


222 
Seo 


oe 9k a ak भू ah ak oe 


During the 1966 drought, 14 million tons were distributed and our imports amounted 
to 10 million tons. I am sure hon. Members will appreciate that a single good crop following 
years of drought is not enough to stabilise the situation. This is what has happened this 
year, and market arrivals have been very low. I am not saying that our procurement drive 
has been effective. It has been effective in many places; it has not been so effective in 
other places... 


अंध् ae ak He अर मर मै: ak ak 


On the whole, effective, Shri Niren Ghosh, if you will excuse me.* Some of the figures 
which appeared from time to time in the press were found not to be correct when cross- 
checked with the authorities. In some places we expected a larger crop but due either to 
lack of rain at the right time or too much rain, our expectations were not fulfilled. I am 
not saying that we have not been to blame at all. We have been to blame; sometimes the 
party, sometimes the administration. But it would not be correct to say that all over India 
the procurement drive failed. It did not. And even in those areas where it was less than 
expected, it has picked up lately. Well, all this indicates that although there was the acute 
shortage last year, this year grains do exist in the rural areas and with the people who live 
in the traditionally drought-affected areas. But there is no doubt that the foodgrain problem 
is affecting the people of the urban areas, particularly urban areas in the deficit State. As I 
said, we do not absolve ourselves of all the blame. But it would be equally unrealistic to 
put all the blame on the Congress or the Government. Hon. Members are aware that at 
any time of shortage, whether in this country or in any other country, especially when it 
concerns foodgrains and other essential commodities, such a situation is exploited by 
unscrupulous traders and speculators. When a climate of scaricity is created, every one 
becomes scared about non-availability, and the ordinary citizen, if he can afford, even 
though he may not be very rich, buys more than he needs. And this in turn increases the 
scarcity. 


We are sometimes accused of shielding traders, speculators, blackmarketeers and the 
like. Will hon. Members take just a minute to consider which parties and which groups 
are supported by such people ? These people have never supported the Congress at any 
time. They may sometimes come to us and utter sweet words and will do so to whoever 
forms the Government. I know they did the same to the C.P.I. (M) when they formed the 
Government in West Bengal. But 1 does not mean ... 


me 2 मं ae A ak ai ae मंद 


I said, sweet words**. I did not say that they were supporting you. 


मं मंद ak yoko a, 


* Replying to Shri Niren Ghosh's remark, “On the whole, a failure”. 


** Replying to Shri Niren Ghosh who said, “Give a single instance where they supported us. I would like to be 
enlightened on this”. 


Ges : 


What I am trying to say is that these are the sections who are angry with the 
" Government. They are normally annoyed and they have become more angry since they 
have discovered that we are trying with all our strength to give a new orientation to our 
society. [am not saying that we have succeeded. But certainly we are involved in a major 
effort. We have taken steps which can take the country in the direction of socialism. And . 
with each such measure, the anger and resistance of these groups have increased. The most 
recent example was the reaction to our takeover of the wholesale trade in wheat. We know 
what reaction this has had on the traders’ community and on some political parties. It is 
known what political parties these reactionary sections support. Wherever we have 
information, wherever something is found, we do try to take action against them. In almost 
all cases, we have taken action. But in a democratic system, a person is presumed to be 
innocent unless he is found guilty and the procedures and the laws in this regard, as hon. Ss 
Members know, are time-consuming. And these groups have taken advantage of this 
system. But I am in full agreement with the House that these elements have to be firmly 
dealt with and we are determined to do so; there can be no two opinions on this. 


Now Shri Goray is here. He and other Members also took up this theme. He also : 
accused me of blaming the Opposition for the state of affairs. I should like to assure him % 
that at no time have I made such a statement. What I have said is that some opposition 
parties are exploiting the difficulties of the people and this has been categorically confirmed : 
by an important leader of the Opposition. We expect the Opposition to oppose. We expect nae 


them to take advantage of our weaknesses, of our faults and our mistakes. Yet when there ee 
is a major national problem which 18 affecting the entire population and more specially 
the poorer and the poorest sections at that time, for the Opposition to take a stand which : é 
will increase the difficulties not of the Government-that has very little importance in this . : 


matter—but of the people as a whole 18, in my view, not proper. That is what I have said. 
And I did say that certain opposition parties—-I do not know what Mr. Goray’s Party was 
doing at that time and I was not referring to it-have exploited the situation not only to : 
blame the Government but also to make the situation worse. Which means that by so doing me 
they added to the difficulties and hardship of the people. I am not given to over- 
simplification... | 


* मै ak और ee fe 


I accept that*. But the trouble is that perhaps there is a bit of guilt-consciousness in 
everybody. No matter what one says referring to a particular party or group, everybody 
imagines that it may reflect on him or his party. This is the difficulty. So, they all rush to 
reply. I did not mention Shri Goray’s party in this connection at all. In some places 1 
specifically mentioned the names of parties active in my State. 1 


I am not given to over-simplification but the Opposition is saying that Government 
alone is responsible for all economic ills. I have admitted that there have been lapses on 


* Replying to Shri N.G. Goray who said, “Madam, may I point out why we have blamed the Government ? We have 
blamed the Government simply because the Government has not been determined enough in pursuing policies which 
they have declared. That has been our criticism”. 


the part of the administration and even the President in his Address has stated this plainly. 
I agree with Shri Goray and other hon. Members that we could do better by way of 
procurement, that we could be more strict in preventing profiteering and black-marketing 
and that we could do more. to punish corruption. We are trying. It is not that we are not 
trying. There are certain difficulties and there may be those amongst us who are fully 
convinced. None of these problems is new except for procurement which is especially 
relevant today. All the other problems we have been facing from the time we became 
independent. 


When, in addition to all this, I point out that there are vast international forces at work 
which limit our freedom of action. Some hon. Members have treated it as something of a 
joke. It is too serious a matter to be brushed aside. That is why I have said that those who 
behave in this manner perhaps do not want us to consider these aspects. When we talk 
about the international financial or economic crisis some people attempt to prove that the 
situation here and elsewhere is entirely unconnected. Those who criticise our socialist 
policies, would like our people to think that the rest of the world is sailing smoothly. They 
may not say in so many words but surely, when they claim that our policies have failed 
the implication is that other policies tned in other parts of the world have succeeded. When 
we point to the crisis which is overtaking the countries of the west, the affluent countries, 
it is not to excuse our own shortcomings, it is to put the problem 1n perspective. Events 
abroad do influence our economy. If prices rise there, they affect our prices also. Prices in 
the Western countries have gone up far more than some hon. Members have quoted but I 
am not going into those details just now. It is true that when the prices go up in a rich 
country, its people are not so affected. This I have explained in public meetings. In England 
the unemployed gets doles. Wages and salaries are also raised. So, we are not saying that 
those people bear the same hardship. We have said that whenever there is a difficult 
situation, it is the poorer nations who suffer.more and within the poorer nations, it is the 
poorer sections who suffer more. 


The reason why I mention the international economic problem is because a rise in prices 
in other countries does bring about an increase here. It has affected the economic situation 
in India, whether we like it or not. This is why I put the problem 1n perspective. 


According to our reports and according to the foreign press which one sees, we find 
that most countries of the world are in the grip of some crisis or the other and not all their 
troubles are due to oil. The knowledge and instruments at the disposal of Governments 
are not sufficient to deal with the new situations which are arising and which in fact are 
major turning points in the world’s economic history. India cannot escape this situation 
and that makes it all the more difficult for us because this situation happens to coincide 
with a phase which otherwise also was extremely critical for us. There are many unusual 
elements ॥ the situation which, perhaps, hon. Members may not be entirely aware of. For 
example, until last year most Indian prices were higher than world prices. Whether it was 
foodgrains or edible oils, fertiliser or steel, in just one year the price abroad of every one 
of these articles has gone up the highest increase being in the case of crude oil. Industrial 
nations are now having to rethink the entire basis of their economic system which has 


PEER EEN 
RRC eS - 


125 


. rested on the assumption of the inexhaustible availability of cheap fuel and other raw 
materials. We also have to make adjustments and, apart from oil, we have to realise that 
we can no longer look outside for food purchases or for credits. 


Some hon. Members spoke of production going down. This is not correct. Production 
has not gone down in all sectors. In fact, in 1972 and 1973, up to September-October, 
there was a fall in production because of the drought and the power cuts, but since then 
production has increased in a number of sectors. For instance, in the public enterprises, 
taken as a whole, we were incurring losses until 1972-73. The net loss in 1971-72 was 
Rs. 19 crores. As against this, the 101 public undertaking in operation in 1972-73 earned 
a net profit of Rs. 18 crores. The net improvement in the period of one year is thus of the 
order of Rs. 37 crores. 


A number of public enterprises will substantially achieve the targets set for this year 
and we expect the overall performance to show considerable improvement over the last 
year. The net profit of public enterprises may reach a figure of over Rs. 40 crores this 
year. This may not be a spectacular figure but there is no doubt that considering the 
situation, considering the difficulties and the sort of backlog which we have to catch up 
with, this progress cannot be enturely ignored. 


The outlook for industrial production in the first half of 1974 is quite good. The main 
handicaps which still remain are powcr shortage and the problems of transportation and 
industrial unrest. The priority given to increasing production through existing power stations 
and for the creation of new capacity 1s specifically referred to in the President’s Address, 
and questions have also been replied to in the House. This year, there will be roughly 1.5 
million kilowatts of additional capacity which will relieve our power shortage to some 
extent. Coal production has also picked up and, with coal production, power availability 
will further improve. 


It is important to ensure that there should be no interruption in movement or interruption 
in production due to unnecessary lockouts or strikes as happened recently in some parts 
of the country : I refer specifically to two big strikes over long periods such as those in 
the jute industry and the textile industry. Of course, there have been many others. 


I was somewhat astonished to hear what my friend, the hon. Shri Abu Abraham has 
said about our being still dependent on foreign collaboration. In the world today, no nation 


PEARS 
2238 Re 
mS ना 


can be entirely self-sufficient. We have seen that even for the biggest, the richest or the 2 
most affluent, there has to be give and take. Sometimes we give and take merely because cS 
of keeping friendship, even though the import or the export may not be strictly necessary. ie 
But there are imports and exports which are essential and I think these will remain for all diss 
limes and specially as we go towards the concept of having a more united world. But I oe 


would like to point out that the nature of foreign collaboration is changing. We are not 
now taking help in the way we used to do because of our own growing capabilities and 
know-how. We have made it clear that foreign collaboration will be allowed only on priority 
sectors where there are production shortages as also in sectors where there is need for the 


126 ‘ 


import of new highly sophisticated know-how. Hon. Members know that a Foreign 
Exchange Regulation Act was passed last year and the guidelines issued under it for 
allowing foreign collaboration have been placed before Parliament. The guidelines clearly 
indicate the limits and conditions within which foreign collaboration and investment will 
be allowed. 


With regard to our five year Plans, in 1966-67, out of a Plan outlay of Rs. 2200 crores, 
foreign assistance was Rs. 1100 crores; that is, 50 per cent came from foreign sources. In 
1972-73, an outlay of Rs. 4000 crores contained foreign assistance to the tune of Rs. 666 
crores. You see what a big reduction this is. That is about 16-2/3 per cent. From 50 per 
cent it came down to 16 per cent. In 1973-74, it is about the same. We hope that in the 
Fifth Five Year Plan it will come down even lower. This demonstrates that far from 
increasing, foreign dependence is being steadily diminished and self-reliance is being 
strengthened. 


One of the major topics of conversation, and debate in the speeches of hon. Members, 
was the talk of corruption. There may be corruption in Government; I have never denied 
it. In fact I have repeatedly said that wherever any prima facie case is made out we have 
not hesitated to enquire fully into ॥ and we have not hesitated to take action. Action has 
been taken not only against those who are in Administration or in Government but also 
against black-marketeers and others, wherever we have been able to get hold of them. 
Corruption has always been there. Not only in our country but it exists in the affluent 
countries just as much. The papers have recently been very full of some of these matters 
and many other items do not always reach the papers. We know that in India corruption 
existed in the Feudal times; we know that it existed in British times and 1. 1s unfortunate 
that it has continued after independence. There can be no two opinions that not only should 
all forms of corruption be condemned in the strongest possible terms but that every effort 
should be made to 10011 out. However, I feel that what is being done today is to focus 
attention merely on the Government and I do not think this is the way in which corruption 
can be rooted out. If we are sincere about it then we must deal with all sections where 
there is corruption. Directing the people’s anger only against the Government means that 
we are cnabling other people to get away with their nefarious activities. The focus is drawn 
away from the profiteers who are allowed not only to escape but perhaps to thrive. We 
know that corruption is a two-way business. If we can be strict enough with the Government 
it will certainly be less in other spheres, but without strong action and focus on the other 
sections it becomes more difficult to deal with it in the Government. Those who are the 
most corrupting influence, who have the money with which to corrupt are quite often 
forgotten or perhaps deliberately shielded from public gaze and public anger. This is a 
question which required deep thought and where everybody instead of blaming one another, 
can sit and seck a solution. 


Comments have been made about election money. I myself have said that this needs 
to be look into. I may be mistaken, but I seem to remember that this has been discussed 
with opposition leaders at a meeting earlier on. The suggestion was made that Government 
should bear all the expenses. The only difficulty is that the country is so vast that this 


(22० 20592 
BENS 22205 


Eason 


ae 

a 
१2:05: 
20222 


बट 


Sees 


aes 
००५, 


४९, 
ee 
of 


127 


would entail an enormous sum. Whether it can be done or not, certainly it should be 
discussed and I think a way should be found how election expenses especially but also 
other types of corruption can be dealt with. 


However, corruption cannot justify violence. Violence is as much a danger to democracy 
and to the unity of the country as corruption can be said to be. History shows us, not only 
remote history but recent history, the history of our own times, that regimes of terror which 
had started off with very big promises of sweeping to clean the administration, of cleaning 
up the country, fell headlong into greater corruption than had existed before they took up 
the massive cleaning operation ! Or it may be they just forgot to do it once they were in 
that position. 


The greatest safeguard of good government and clean politics is democracy itself and 
I personally think that there should be open, direct election based upon adult franchise 1n 
the full gaze of the public. We know that sometimes there are incidents in elections and 
reference was made by some hon. Members just before I began, perhaps as an excuse for 
their walking out. This is a matter which concems the Election Commission. Whenever 
any complaint has been made I think the Election Commission had gone into it and have 
held enquiry.... 


ae a मर MK IK ok a oe 


Well, it is for them to say whether a case 1s made out or not*. I think that violence 
will subvert people’s faith in themselves and it is astounding to me that people who vow 
lifelong allegiance to peace and harmony should at the first opportunity become apologists 
of violence. 


Mention was also made here of the Shiv Sena. I think my own opinion has been very 
clearly and firmly expressed whenever I have had the occasion to do so. We cannot support. 
any party which is parochial, communal, or sectarian in its outlook. The Congress has firmly 
stood for the principle that all of India belongs to every single citizen regardless of his 
religion, his place of birth, his caste and the language he speaks. He should have the 
opportunity of living and working anywhere he chooses to do so. Of course, I have said 
and I do stand by this that where there is any big industry or project it should be seen that 
those local people who cannot travel around seeking employment elsewhere should be given 
full opportunity. Otherwise, tension will be created. Basically the problem is one of 
economic difficulty. Once we overcome this phase, I think that this type of jealousy and 
rivalry will also go. In the meantime, to fan such tension or to put these ideas in anybody’s 
mind that only a particular community should be employed in a particular place is very 
harmful to our concept of Indian unity. We should not encourage it in any way. All those 
who are opposed to this should stand together in this matter and see that such thoughts 
and tendencies do not increase. 


The hon. Member, Shri Niren Ghosh, said something about my Nagpur meeting. Mr. 
Niren Ghosh was not there, but I was. A number of other people, including MPs, were 


* Replying to Shri Niren Ghosh who said, “No, No.” 


there. I can tell him that normally three lakh people do not come if they do not want to 
see or hear a person. They do not take the trouble to walk miles from villages to go to a 
meeting place. Now, what happened was that before I came to the meeting there was a 
black-flag demonstration by about twenty or twenty-five people, no more. Then there was 
a very peaceful meeting, but there was not enough room for all the people. Therefore, the 
police asked some of our local organisers whether they should allow new people who were 
coming into the passages which are left open for people to come in and go out. But when 
these people were allowed in, many came and sat quietly; but along with them came the 
people with black flags. They fanned out into all the front sections and more especially in 
the Press enclosure. From there they not only shouted but they threw the sticks of their 
black flags and some broken chappals which presumably they had collected for the 
occasion. Most of these came on the Press enclosure. Naturally, the Press people got very 
excited and jumped out of this enclosure and started running. Another habit of those who 
disturb meetings is trying to throw dust. When suddenly dust descends, everybody gets 
up to look behind to see what 1s happening. As soon as they get up the other people push 
in the front. So, there was disturbance in the front only in three sections. There was no 
disturbance in the women’s section. But especially the Press area was disturbed. The rest 
of the meeting sat absolutely quiet and in fact, one could hear sounds of ‘Jai’. “We want 
to hear’ and so on. I would have stayed on for a longer period except that the time given 
for the meeting was extremely short and I had to reach by a set time the university which 
was celebrating its Golden Jubilee. Otherwise, no matter what the noise, I would have 
spoken longer. If I am scheduled to speak for ten minutes, if there 1s a noise, I speak for 


twenty minutes. 


a 2 ak मंद > मै मंप्मंप मर 


Somebody mentioned it because I was in the House*. If you have not mentioned it, 
then I withdraw that part of it. But somebody mentioned it. 


As I said, had there not been this limitation of time and not wanting to be late for the 
university function, I could have stayed on longer. 


This was not a big point. But | just mentioned it to show how things get distorted in 
the Press and then get taken up by some people and further exaggerated. 


Now, many hon. Members were naturally concerned about what has been happening 
in Gujarat. I think hon. Members know my own deep sorrow and anxiety at the conditions 
which have been prevailing there for the last few months. The students and the teachers 
may have started a movement in all sincerity. But we see that other elements have taken 
advantage of 1. Widespread violence has resulted in the loss of many lives. I have already 
expressed my deep sympathy—and I do so again—with the bereaved families and also with 
those who have been injured, and amongst these there are also the policemen. Now, the 
police may not always behave with restraint but we must remember that they are also sons 


* Replying to Shri Niren Ghosh who said, “I would say that I did not mention anything regarding this matter in the 
course of my speech on the Presidential Address debate. Last session, I did put a question about Madurai”. 


पप्ीरीट00020 2 0000020:72700200200077%20/:7 1००८४ ०:४०४९४८७ ee SCONE se 0700५ 
27700 00770 ८:20 ee i : 2200 oe १0८2 ys ५:०2: oo BO ५६९ 
20505 ‘s Sere 


ete et ४५१६, ३ y ety . eae at SSN 
patents He ५ रे ८2: ५ ०३३, 2225 Se 12228 2 ६१४५८००८४८२०८८०८7९ 
3१५१ ५०, 4, . a, 6, * 
eS ar ae ४ ae 2220 Renn BRR S Tite a 42:00 stat ptatelatytatate 
(] O45 ra ५0४८८ aes’ pla By) (0०0) alate 9 


=r 
aoe 


a 3 . 
Se 
cae 


Bes 
Sore 
aS 


> 
ed 
es 


ae 
Sa 172 * 


of Gujarat, and one should not try to depict a section or a profession as being anti-people 
or. anti-national and so on. Much property has also been destroyed. The burning of food 
shops and milkbooths cannot help the students or the. other people in improving the food 


supply. It is our information that the poorer sections have suffered the most as usually : 
happens in such cases. Shops of small shopkeepers have been burnt, not only destroying oe 


whatever foodgrains were available but making it impossible for supplies to be replenished. 
Actually, all sections have suffered. Banks and other institutions which go into the service 
of the people have been destroyed. I have been told, apart from the reports that we get 
through the administration or through our party, by members of other parties and by others 
that some of this destruction of big buildings and especially of bunks, has been done not 
haphazardly or in excitement but in a very expert and knowledgeable manner. I do not 
think that any of our students or teachers could have expertise in this direction. We are 
doing everything possible to improve the administration. The party leadership asked the 
Government headed by Shn Chimanbhai Patel to resign, and in doing so our party was 
guided by the interest of the State rather than by any narrow party consideration. Despite 
the persistent efforts to provoke the administration even under the President’s Rule, all 
those arrested under MISA have been released. The police have been asked to exercise 
the utmost restraint in the discharge of their duty. 


Arrangements have been made to improve the availability of food stocks and steps 
have been taken to enable essential supplies to reach all places and to bring down the prices. 
In fact, I learn that the prices of all the foodgrains in the open market have come down. 
But certain political elements determined to subvert democratic political processes have 
exploited the legitimate grievances of the people. I hope I will be excused if I say that in 
true fascist style they have combined the skilful use of propaganda and exaggeration by 
an Organisation of storm troopers to wrest power. 


The words “fascism” and “‘fascist’” are used rather loosely. If policemen hit some body 
too hard it is called “fascism”. But actually the word has a definite meaning. The question 
is how did the fascist movement grow in Italy and how did the Nazi movement grow in 
Germany. When we use these words it is in that context that they should be taken. It does 
not mean abuse of power. Fascists may abuse power but this does not give that word the 
same thing. Fascism means a Situation where a small group of people want to enforce their 
views, their desires on the larger group through force, intimidation, through coercion. And 
this is what we are witnessing 1n Gujarat. 


Hon’ble Members are aware that democracy rests on the reconciliation of liberty with 
order. No democratic government can allow subversion of order by force organised by a 
minority. Unruly elements that are exploiting a situation should be exposed and not allowed 
to have their way. The ordinary citizen should not be disturbed. He should not be disabled 
from continuing his means of livelihood. 


Several allegations of corruption were made against the former government of Gujarat. 
At no time have we been unwilling to have specific charges of corrupuon examined. If 
specific charges are made and if there is a prima facie case an appropriate enquiry in such 
charges will certainly, and immediately, be undertaken. But I do hope sincerely that all 


222 LOD PPL Be 22 $3 22 Le Ty os 22220 ४०2: ४25 2 ye ; Bs Thome, 22 Shanon sia ee at ae ४24 ae 2.2४ es ¢ ss 
GE LL Oe: 22222 2256 25022 BE PIS ES Ta ISRO ROS) EZ Bish. 20272: 22220 20222: 
ae oA Ee PETES: 22८ 22222: ee op A 22: yy ५2 19 RON . 2: hata pees y ४222 Pola i ४2 घर 1 00०५ Roe ost 
OOOH OEE TE OU ET SARE 2 ०/002203%20 PL ROO LE PRIN LEH IR g SRR KAS ROE 


sections of people in Gujarat will co-operate in the task of restoring normalcy and peaceful 
conditions. 


[ personally feel that dissolution is not a question of principle or policy. But I think 
this can be discussed only when normalcy has been restored. At the present moment there 
is no question whatsoever of forming a Government, any kind of government. But may 1 
put to the House whether it is practicable to expect that there should be dissolution or any 
action which can have far-reaching and long-term implication for the entire country in the 
present atmosphere of coercion and violence ? The police may have behaved improperly, 
we do not support such action. But we have news, we have instances of coercion today. 
You read of resignations in the press. What is happening ? People are being threatened 
that their houses will be burnt. And houses have been burnt. We read of an incident when 
an M.L.A’s son was kidnapped. It came out in the newspapers. If an MLA or somebody 
comes to Delhi, his family and children are threatened. So when resignations are taken in 
this manner, how can anybody say that this is a normal way of making a demand or 
expressing the people’s view. I should like to reiterate that once normalcy is restored, we 
are willing to meet all sections, listen to their views and give serious consideration to their 
views and their demands. I should like to repeat that. What is being gained by the present 
agitation ? Everyday more people are suffering. And while all sections are suffering, the 
burden in any such situation always falls more heavily on the weaker sections. 


I] come now to a brief mention of our foreign policy. We are always being asked by 
the Jan Sangh and this was repeated 1n the debate to prove that we are pro-Soviet as if we 
have some skeleton in the cupboard which we are hiding and which we do not disclose to 
the public. Some countries spread this canard and false propanganda for their own purpose, 
for the furtherance of their own policies. But it is a great pity for any Indian to repeat this 
or echo it parrot-like without considering whether it is in the Indian interest or not. I do 
not think I need apologise for the friendship between India and the Soviet Union. The House 
and all hon. Members are aware that it has benefited India’s interests and we think it has 
helped world peace. This friendship is not and it will not be at the cost of our friendship 
with any other country. We have declared this repeatedly. This leadership of the Soviet 
Union has declared this. The Soviet Union realises and we believe other countries also 
realise, and in fact they have said so to us, that we cannot be pressurised by other countries 
or by parties or groups in India to give up policies which are obviously and admittedly in 
the interests of our country. The House knows that we are very anxious to improve our 
relations even with those countries which have not been very friendly with us. Various 
steps are being taken which are leading towards more friendly contacts and closest 
cooperation and we intend to pursue these. I do not think any useful purpose is served by 
continuously harping on this question. Our ability to stand by our convictions was amply 
demonstrated during the Bangladesh crisis. We have continued to work for reconciliation 
and normalcy on the sub-continent as well as in other parts of the world. Therefore, we 
have welcomed the recognition of Bangladesh. It was long overdue and belated, but it has 
now happened and we have welcomed it. There is going to be a meeting of the three 
countries very soon under the terms of the Delhi Agreement for further steps towards 
normalisation. Hon. Members are aware of our policy of friendship with all. But again 


new and further steps are being taken for closer cooperation in the economic and cultural 
fields, with other countries, not only our next-door neighbours, as, Sri Lanka, for instance, 
but also those which are a little farther away like Afghanistan. Iraq, Iran and the other 
Arab countries. Recently we have had visits from President Sadat and Sardar Naim. The 
Foreign Minister of the Arab Emirates is still in our country. It is admitted by the world 
that our foreign policy has stood the test of time. 


My colleague, Shri Borooah, has very ably dealt with the theory of the CPI (M) about 
nationalities in our country. He has also put into focus the nature of democracy as the word 
is understood the world over. We have diversity in our country. We can see it in this House. 
We can see it in any State or region. We have our different languages, our different religions, 
and we have our local cultural groups. We have welcomed this distinct personality of 
regions because we know it does not weaken the country, it 1s not divisive but it adds 
something which enriches our society. Each region has a distinct personality, 1 hope each 
one of us here has a distinct personality. But I do not think that this makes each region a 
separate entity. It still remains part of the whole. It does not help India in any way to talk 
of this problem of nationalities in this particular way. We believe and we have always said 
that our diversity strengthens our unity. If we were to put everybody in the same mould, 
then, new and different types of tension would arise which would be far more difficult to 
deal with. It is natural that each State should want to go ahead. Of course, there 1s no 
question of blocking its progress. But can one State advance if the country as a whole 
does not ? Therefore, does it not become incumbent on the slightly better off States or 
areas to assist the weaker areas ? It is for us to help create an atmosphere 1n which this is 
possible. 


So far as the Opposition parties are concerned, there are differences and there always 
will be differences even on basic matters. But at the same time there are national issues 
on which, in my view, democracy demands a national understanding and a national 
endeavour. Democracy enjoins certain responsibilities upon us. An important part of 
democracy is that the ruling party should not suppress the Opposition. People should be 
allowed to speak and write. Would any Member like to travel round the world and point 
out the country where there is greater liberty of speech than in India. I would be glad to 
know, because I have not been able to discover one. Similarly, democracy enjoins upon 
the Opposition to give maximuin co-operation to the Government on matters which concer 
the welfare of the people as a whole. If there is a normal economic problem, certainly you 
can exploit the situation. But as I said earlier, when the manner पा which you exploit the 
situation aggravates the hardships of the people, especially the poorer sections, then the 
question arises whether that is the right thing to do at that particular moment. Should a 
national economic crisis not be regarded as we regard war ? Here was an emergency which 
concermed everybody, it was not an emergency which concerned only the Government, 
everybody was affected. Therefore, everybody should come forward and say, ‘“We are united 
in the face of the emergency.” It is an emergency, an economic emergency on a big scale. 
It 1s specially an Indian problem and at the same time part of a global problem. Hon. 
Members may differ but it is my view that this was a matter on which all of us should sit 
together and try to find solutions. We do have meetings with Opposition leaders. But they 


ae 
22% ree 


s 


themselves are divided. Some accuse us of being too radical, others of being too 
conservative and unfortunately the entire discussion is confined to this argument rather 
than finding what positive steps we can all take together to help the people or to help 
alleviate their sufferings. Democracy can be sustained only if we are vigilant. There have 
been nations where democracy was subverted by men of little vision or of overwhelming 
ambition and such men have been exploited, sometimes unwillingly by powerful internal 
and external forces. This is why I have been putting this problem before our people because 
our people must be alive to the peril which is ever present. We should not think that once 
we have gained our Independence, it is secure for all time. We have to be on our guard all 
the time. There is a special responsibility on Government and on Parliament. But ultumately 
it rests on the entire people of India. 


My entire endeavour and the effort of our Party has been to strengthen the people to 
withstand external pressures as well as the insidious pulls of monopolists or those groups 
which we think will weaken the country from within. In this, I include all communal groups 
or groups which in the name of caste or religion or language or provincialism weaken the 
fabric of Indian unity. 


Finally, today there are two basic issues to which I think all M.Ps and those who are 
interested in the future of the country should address themselves. 


First is the question of production agricultural and industrial, greater and larger 
procurement of food articles and better distribution of essentials. This 1s one part. 


The second question 1s : Can violence be allowed to spread and endanger the very 
basis of our society ? 


When I have spoken of the situation in the world or of the dangers surrounding us, it 
iS not to divert the people’s attention. In the same speeches, I myself have drawn the 
attention of the people to the difficulties within the country such as the hardships caused 
by rising prices and the lack of essential commodities. I know that our farmers are suffering, 
I know that the people with small industries are suffering for lack of power and lack of 
other essential articles. When I have stated the international problem it is not to say : Do 
not think of your difficulty, just concentrate on external dangers. I have very clearly outlined 
the internal difficulties to the people. I have also admitted that Government cannot be 
absolved of all blame. But when we consider them, we have also to take note of the 
considerable achievements which we have been able to have in thts period in spite of all 
difficulties and all obstacles. We have also to note what powerful sections have blocked 
our programmes. May be, as Shri Goray has said, procurement was not satisfactorily 
enforced in every State. At the same tume, there were influential groups who approached 
our peasants and advised them against selling their grains. It is no use looking only at one 
aspect and ignoring others. We are not evading our mistakes. We are trying to make up 
our shortcomings and to see that if we have failed, we should not fail again. We do not 
hesitate to make changes even though some people may accuse us of turning back. If we 
feel that changes are essential for the people’s welfare and good, we shall make them 
regardless of criticism by any side, be they radicals or others. So, we are looking at the 


Te OR FOR HOR 4003 srs — ses Se ५2226000000006020200 
5५९ Wael alot aS 8 on Os A a OS OT HS HD 22200 9) 2 ५ Be 22002 re 1060 as » 5 a ORS Rei 
od 57027 000 ee SER an Rea ce ASR ian 0: RL AMR aE Siang aseee 2022 50222: RN 005 NG RAN RRC ae EE Best 


133 


problem not only from the practical point of view, but from the point of view of the nation’s 
future and the welfare of the people. And we have to look at nat only the long-term strength 
of the country and society, but we have also to see to the short-term needs which simply 
cannot be by-passed. We cannot ignore the present difficulties of the people. We are trying 
to balance the two and to find a way out. At the same time, I would not be true to my 
responsibility if I did not point to the external dangers. It is not merely a question of the 
arms build-up around our country, whether it be in the Indian Ocean or whether it be in 
certain small and big countries around us. Whenever I have mentioned this, I have also 
made it clear that it is net to frighten people that I am drawing their attention to this danger. 
There is no need for us to be panicky. There is no need to be frightened. But the people of 
India must at all times see their problems in the larger perspective, they must be aware of 
the dangers which threaten them from within and from without. It is only when they have 
a true picture that they can judge any issue and democracy can function as it should at the 
grass-roots level. 


The present world situation is in a fluid state, full of uncertainty. Any action or step 
which encourages confusion and chaos in India adds to this threat. It poses a danger to 
the unity and security of the country. I am not appealing to my hon’ble friends because 1 
have noted Shr’ Bhupesh Gupta’s annoyance at the appeals to Members of Parliament. 
But I will say that I hope that without appealing to hon. Members, they will study the 
situation, especially now that the elections are over. Every time we are blamed that we 
were waiting for the elections. I do not know about other people. But I can say for myself 
that I have never got ternbly excited by any victory. Even the Bangladesh victory, which 
was aproud moment for India, did not excite me much though I was happy and I welcomed 
it. But I was not transported to the seventh heaven as many people were. I was reminding 
the country of the new problems which the victory would pose for us and 1 did this in 
public and in this House also. Similarly, I take defeats. If we are defeated well, it is a part 
of life. We are not here for winning or losing. We are here to enavour to take India in a 
particular direction and to work for socialism because we believe in it, not because it is a 
word which is fashionable or because the people like it. In the present circumstances of 
India, it is only the Socialist path and direction that can alleviate the ills of the people. It 
wil] not bring them victory in a hurry. This will take a very long time. The path is a long 
and a difficult one. {t is the only path which can reduce the inequalities in our society and 
which can bring a better deal to the poorer sections of the people to those sections and 
castes which have been suppressed not merely because of poverty, but because of incidence 
of birth, such as the Harijans and the Adivasis. Because of the circumstances of the partition 
of the country, our minorities, who would normally not be considered as backward classes, 
have really fallen into this category of backwardness. So, it is our endeavour to give a 
better life to all these people. Whether we win or lose in any election or for that matter, 
anywhere else, so far as this endeavour of ours is concerned, we must not lose our faith, 
we must not lose our courage and we must not lose our determination. It is in this spirit 
that we must face the ups and downs that come. 


India has existed for thousands of years. How many crises it has passed through and 
how many periods it has passed through when it was absolutely down and how many 


<i 
ग््क0 
x 


ae 
20६ 
AANA SS oN ; 
SERCO RRS ७32 


2, 


periods we have passed through when we were humiliated, when we did not dare to talk 
about our religion or our culture or our language ? But we have survived all these 
vicissitudes. There is something in the people of this country that enables them to survive. 
If in the first dark period we are going to forget all this, if instead of building up our 
confidence, we try to reduce it, then it is wrong and this will be the greatest weakness. 
So, without appealing to hon. Members, I would say this : Let us work unitedly to build 
up the confidence of the people. 


We have got the ability. We have got the means also. I think we have now to move 
towards our goal. I do not know whether the goal can be attained in the lifetime of even 
the youngest person in this House. All that we can do is to use all our energies, all our 
efforts, all our talents, to move some steps forward towards that goal. If we can do that, 
that is a great deal. 


135 


Ms 
\ 
४ 
: 
: 
> 
y 
rd 
‘ 
sen) 
C . j 
५:00 
"5 NOK (३१ (५ 
ट्रक aoe : 
(४४६ ३५८ 
aS Perel 
ip tor es « - 
rons Kx ¥ 
* . ot 
१४०० रे 
RRS 
terete ६८ 
मन ० 
1 ; : 
arb aera 
A as Aral 
ae 222 
ै 
2027:0:27 
SS 
es ie हे 
o ‘ aa) 
ae 
Pies) sd 
bye A at. 
22025 
के Sees Se 
20:05: 
एज 
wey 2 
Bute oh Ae 
“! oS 
Me wy 
27752 
rere, 
pra 09 
92: 5) 
52 
oe 9.2 
‘. a nd 
pe 4९२०० ९४4४ 
eee Sig 
८5:५४ 
कर 
BRIS 
es of ५५ 
SRO 
ke 
- 
Bae * 
aw Woe ‘ad 
82228 
Seen 
०५ 
22069 | 
2०70० 
प्र 2 eee 
wd ee 
508 
Se pe +3 
Re ७" 
SSR 
20277: 
oe 
- का 


In Defence of Government Policies* 


Mr. Deputy Chairman, the last year has been one of extraordinary difficulties for us as 
well as for a large part of the world. It was not unexpected that many sections of the 
Opposition should speak with anger and some of them with, if I may say so, malice but 
there have also been many thoughtful contributions. 


Before I begin, I should like to express my deep sympathy to all those who have 
suffered physically or materially in the Jama Masjid area. Some hon. Members remarked 
that I have not expressed any sympathy. This is not correct, because after the very first 
news I got, even though I was not well at that time, I sent a message of sympathy and I 
kept touch with the Delhi. Administration and the Home Ministry as to what relief was 
being given. We convey our sincere condolences to all the bereaved families. 


There has also been a major calamity in the north, that 1s, the earthquake in Himachal 
and I know hon. Members would like us to extend our deepest sympathy. I extend sympathy 
on behalf of the Government and, if you would allow me, on behalf of the House, to all 
those who have suffered. It was all the more tragic because the earthquake took place at a 
time when most communications were blocked because of heavy snow, so that relief could 
not reach in time to many places. Even now, we do not have the full picture but we have 
tried our best and people all over India have responded to appeals and given blankets, 
money and other help. So we send our sympathy to the affected people. 


I would also like to say that just a couple of days ago, last Saturday, I was in Tamil 
Nadu and I heard heart-rending stones of the distress caused by drought. While I was there, 
there was a drizzle but hardly enough to solve the problem of drinking water, let alone the 
severe blow to their agriculture and their crops. 


Now to come to the points made by hon. Members. One hon. Member said that there 
was variance in the views expressed in the President’s Address and those expressed by 
my colleague, the Home Minister and myself about reforms in the electoral laws. I have 
not been able to find any such divergence of opinion. We all are agreed that there should 
be a debate on this matter. Even in the last Session we had said that we would like to 
discuss it with members of the Opposition but we do feel that it should be a very wide- 
ranging, broadbased discussion all over the country. Some committee was formed. I think 
some of you have seen what suggestions have been made and, if I may say so with due 
respect, I do not find them very revolutionary. 


* Replying to the debate on the Motion of Thanks on the President’s Address, R.S. Deb., 26 February, 1975, cc. 155-70. 


Sea 
जी 


creates 


ores 
SPEER 


< 


Orne es 


< 
meses 


ae 


aaa 
ou 1 
eater Pe : 
CSR Meer een ब ३०-०1 


Se 


Amongst the points made, one was problem of small farmers. It is true that originally 
the green revolution bypassed smaller farmers. As soon as we realised this, we are making 
efforts to have special programmes for them, for those who live in the drier parts of the 
country and for marginal farmers. Our country is so vast and the number of people involved 
is 80 large that these pogrammes take time to make an impact and even when you can 
cover lots of people, it is nothing compared to what is to be done. I should like to assure 
hon. Members that this matter is very much on our minds. Any suggestions which they 
may have will be welcome. 


The retrenchment of workers always creates problems for numbers of people. On the 
other hand, if a particular project is completed, you cannot say that the work should be 
dragged on just because there is no alternative employment, but our instructions are that 
some way should be found, even if it means moving some of these people to some distance, 
to give them other work. 


An hon. Member has spoken about education. He felt that Government does not regard 
education as a core subject. Now, the word ‘core’ is generally used in a special connotation, 
but no one will deny that education is the very core of any society. We should not look at 
it merely in terms of money or the funds allotted. Today education is being widely discussed 
all over the world and in India also there is a debate on the sort of educational reforms 
needed. It is true that funds have been cut not only from education, but from almost every 
programme, from every State, from every Central Ministry. I must say that my full 
sympathies are with the Minister of Education and his Ministry in their difficult task. I 
have asked the Planning Commission to do everything possible to ensure that none of the 
important programmes or the important changes which are being brought about are affected 
by these cuts. 


It was suggested that scientists and technologists should be encouraged to go to the 
rural areas. Now, this is of crucial importance to our development and I fully support the 
hon. Member who has made this point. If hon. Members ever read my speeches they will 
notice that there is hardly any occasion, connected with science and technology, when I 
do not stress the point that not only must they go to the rural areas but work there to have 
a deeper understanding of rural problems. A major portion of our science must be directed 
to solving rural problems. I am not against fundamental science or basic research. They 
arc important to a country of our size and importance. We will be able to tackle even the 
problems of basic science better if we are aware of some of the problems which are right 
on our doorstep. With small inventions, small improvements, in the old materials used for 
buildings, in improving the bullockcart or the chakki—or grindstone and many other such 
small matters. I do not think this needs much effort but it would bring immediate relief to 
millions of housewives and millions of farmers. There is one group of experts, young 
people—scientists, sociologists, technologists and doctors knit in a small compact group— 
perhaps hon. Members are aware of this experiment—who is doing work in the rural areas 
of Ajmer. They are very dedicated. Some of them were in high paid jobs. They have devoted 
themselves to work in one area and after making a success of it there for three or four 
years, they are branching out and opening similar centres in other States. Of course, these 
are still very small islands of work, but their importance is not only in the work achieved 


a P! a, 


aS SaeNSmen aN mY ES as Bees 20070 0 2:77::::750%2:2:0:::::777::77::7:77::::77:0::5 Se = 
SSR NAC Ae 2 x SEO oO CE ००.०० Seen de CAE ERS SOO EE OP ०८०८2 258 ne 3S 22202 NS 22५८ = Se ape aN SEES RES ४२२1 २22८ NO Set: See 


but equally in the fact that they are drawing the attention of other young people. If we can 


encourage young people from universities to take such interest in constructive activities, ae 
is would make a great deal of difference to our country all along the line. : 
20002: 


oe "ora 
002: 


About historical monuments, one hon. Member said that they are not being properly 
looked after. The Minister must be a little tired of the number of letters I write to him on 
this subject. I am constantly pursuing the matter. His reply is we do not have enough guards, eS 
we do not have enough money. While we are trying to provide them money, frankly I do 
not think it needs a big amount. We need to make local people more conscious that, these 
are their treasures. When visitors, tourists or others want to make quick, easy money by 
selling pictures, sculptures or pieces of architecture it is for the local people to be vigilant. 
At the same time, we must have adequate guards. This awareness is something which we 
should somehow include in our school courses so that people of the region recognise the 
value to the nation of their treasures and how they should be safeguarded. In our treasures 
I would include not only monuments and architectural treasures, but also the art of the 
region, the wildlife of the region and the forests of the region. Hon. Members are very 
anxious to have paper mills and industnes, and I am for them too. Please do not think that 
I am cancelling any licence to a paper mill. But we must not denude our mountainside 
and our countryside of their forests. This is having an adverse effect on our rainfall and 
climate. Unfortunately, you do not see the results of such vandalism immediately; when 
you do realize, it 1s too late then and it takes years and years to grow trees again. Today 
we are suffering from what happened during the war. That was when the major deforestation 
began. So, from now on we must create consciousness amongst all citizens and especially 
amongst young people. The same goes for wildlife. It is often asked that when people are 
suffering, why should we bother about animals. But various studies in the West have 
established that the elimination of any species has a bad effect on the general ecological 
balance and therefore also affects the human species. Agriculture has suffered because of 
the indiscriminate use of pesticides. There are pests which we do not like. But nevertheless | 
they serve a useful purpose. Therefore we have to be very careful before we decide that 
some species can be expendable. 


2०722. 
sont 
atotatatone 
पर 


Sos 


a8 


:2:7%725:077:72::7:::7:: 


wee 
eon 
Seca 


B 
oe 


दर 2 
22777: 2 270: 7 
eaten 

a 


Every now and then one hears that action against smugglers has now been given up or 
has slackened. I am constantly writing to my colleague about this matter and I am assured 
that the work has not slackened. The drive is just as hard. Only no, beause the novelty has 
worn out, it does not get so much publicity. But the matter is being pursued just as hard. 
We continue to need the help and cooperation of the general publ'c in this matter as in 
many other matters. 


Now, Sir, in a debate like this, it is natural that our shortcomings should be pointed 
Out and attention drawn to the failures of the Government and our Party. But it was 
saddening for me to hear the very first speaker from the Opposition calling us a Government 
of failures. I remember how, in the middle of last year, the very next day after our scientists 
had carried out our peaceful nuclear experiment, there was a meeting of Opposition leaders. 
But they had not one word of praise to say for the scientists’ achievements. They did not 
have to pay compliments to the Government because I do not regard it as the achievement 
of the Government. It was the nation’s achievement. But the Opposition seems to well 


itself with so many small things—and sometimes even with hatred and bitterness—that they 
can see no good in anything that is happening. It is their own sense of failure which makes 
them see failure everywhere around them. It is true that achievement also creates problems. 
It is when you are moving when you are doing things that you can make mistakes. It is 
only the dead who have no problems. But just because there are problems, it does not 
mean that there has not been any achievement or any forward movement. 


For its part, the Government has started this year, 1975, with a sense of quiet confidence 
and solid determination. A hesitant government could not have put forward the hard and, 
if I may say so, almost heroic measures of economic discipline and reached agreements 
with neighbouring countries—some of these agreements were not so popular—to solve a 
number of difficult problems and, finally reach the understanding which we have in Jammu 
and Kahsmir. As 1 said earlier, I do not wish to claim success for the Government. But I 
certainly regard these as the successes of the nation. We shall continue to try to solve all 
problems which have remained unsolved and secure many more such successes for the 
nation in spite of the Opposition’s obstructive defeatism. 


The President’s Address has given a detailed account of the economic scene. I do not 
propose to go over the same ground here. It is not surprising that prices went up. They 
went up here because they are going up all over the world and because of the situation of 
the last year. It was a matter worth nothing that we managed to bring the price level down 
in the last five months, which so few other countries have been able to do. It 1s no use 
comparing the wages of one country with another. We have also to see where we started 
from. You cannot make comparisons unless you compare the base from which India started 
and the level at which our people worked and the level of people in other countries. 


Sir, disparaging remarks have been made even about the downward trend of prices. 
Some people have tried to make out that it was due only to seasonal agricultural factors. 
No doubt the season has effect on some prices. But surely credit should also be given to 
the fiscal restraint which was exercised by the Government and the special efforts made 
in the industrial field, especially by the workers and managers in our public sector 
establishments. The President has congratulated them and I should like to add mine and 
your congratulations too. 


If hon’ ble Members will bear with me, 1 should like to repeat something which I have 
said on a couple of occasions outside this House. What has been the situation in the rest 
of the world ? It is part of my duty to be appnsed of what is happening and I have to read 
a large number of newspapers from different countries. In many of their articles and 
comments, noted columnists have described the grave economic difficulties which various 
countries in Europe have been facing in the last year or so. They have written about 
inflation, rising prices, increasing unemployment, recession. These are the problems before 
them. But the point which they have stressed is this—that these countries, such as France 
and Germany, where they follow democratic systems, have strong Opposition parties. Their 
ruling parties have slender majorities. The prevalent economic situation and the 
Government's inability to handle it would have been a very convenient target for Opposition 
parties to use against their Government. And had they used it effectively, perhaps they 


139 


ety SS, 


ass ०५ 


Reon 


en 
han 
aoe e oe xs ३०८५ 
समान a 


Pano 
5:72 


22205 


ee 


4५4 
४ 
bathe 


could have succeeded in bringing down their Governments. In point of fact this is not 
-happening. Why ? Because they all realise the gravity of the situation. They realise that at 
a time when the entire economic scene is so fluid in the world, their country’s stability is 
of utmost importance. So although they do criticise but, according to these people, the 
attack is in a very low key. There is similar comment about the criticism of the situation 
from the Communist or Eastern bloc of countries. Normally such a situation would have 
been exploited. They could have said that they had prophesied that the capitalist system 
would not work. Again, although there is some criticism, it 1s not the sharp criticism one 
would expect because they also realise that instability would affect them along with others 
and that no country can escape the repercussions. Perhaps some hon. frends opposite may 
contradict me, but so far as my information goes, and I have met some of the leaders of 
these countries also, even Communist economies have felt the impact of what is happening 
in Europe. They have not been able to isolate themselves from it. When I spoke about this 
to somebody in Delhi, he replied : “You see, political parties in these other countries have 
formed the Government. They know how difficult it is. So they have a greater sense of 
responsibility’. I do not think that this is a valid point. Almost every party here has been 
part of the Government. It may not have formed the Government at the Centre. But it has 
had to face most of these problems in one State or another. And so they are aware that it 
is easier to speak about these things than to bring about major changes. These people have 
realised, and it is something which everyone must realise, that it needs the whole nation’s 
strength not only to overcome such a situation but even to withstand it. The situation in 
India is more difficult than in other countries not just because the poverty-line is lower or 
because there are larger numbers of people to be dealt with, but even because of our size, 
because we have been growing in strength and self-assurance. This itself has attracted a 
lot of illwill towards us. So we are subject to various pressures which other countries are 
not subjected to or they do not mind. Many would just accept a subservient position. But 
we stand up to pressures, so the situation here becomes very much more complex. I 
sincerely hope that the parties of the Opposition will also try and view these matters with 
a greater sense of responsibility. 


Sometimes people say that we are putting the blame or shifting the blame for everything 
that happens on to the Opposition. I can say for myself that I have never said so. I do not 
say that it is the Opposition which has created the present economic difficulties. But I have 
said that the Opposition tries to take advantage of the situation in a way that sometimes 
harms people. When you have massive strikes which aim at bringing the economy to a 
halt, when grain cannot move, then certainly it is taking an advantage which is not in the 
general interest of the nation. 


Sir, we hear now of people preaching the doctrine of disobedience to public servants, 
of preaching well, I can only call it mutiny to the army or the police. Has anybody bothered 
to consider the results of this ? Suppose we face a situation on our borders ? It has nothing 
to do with the Congress or with any political party. Once you encourage this kind of 
indiscipline, how do you contain it ? How do you face the enemy ? No thought is being 
given to these basic problems which, to my mind, are most important. If you do not have 
discipline in our forces, in our public servants, then no other problems can be solved, neither 


oy 22222 22: Oy PT Ry ve i Oly 52-७० 7 LO Le ८००० 
roe ef ८22: 272222: "12%: ९०८६ : 
2८ ८7% 7" 2225 pad ८:22 


op 2222 Pan heyy oe 
en ae Pe 22222 १7८ ५222 ० ‘4 222: 


140 डर 


by us nor by any other government or by any other party which may hope to form the 
Government. Some people may think that if they create a situation of anarchy, then the 
churning of the ocean will yield up the nectar of office for them. But I can only say that if 
it comes about in this way, it will be very bitter nectar and I doubt if they will be able to 
swallow it any more than they can swallow poison. 


2 मंद मै He 2 मर a ok ak 


I should like to plead with the Opposition, persuade them if I can, but certainly caution 
them as I must, not to follow the politics of destruction and not to weaken the nation at a 
time when forces around us want India to be weakened so that they can pressurise us to 
follow the line which is more to their interest. 


Much has been said here and outside about the Bihar agitation. Several Parties have 
formed an axis to wage the agitation and also to carry the torch to other parts of the country. 
A large number of statements have been made, are being made, which are often conflicting 
and contradictory. As far as I can see it, why are so many political parties interested ? Are 
they there disinterestedly ? Is it that they do not want power and they do not want to win 
elections ? If they are there, it is obviously to capture power. And what is distressing is 
not that they want to capture power because in politics this is a legitimate aim for any 
political party and our system allows it but what is distressing 1s that they want to capture 
power anyhow, not considering the means. 


Those who would lecture us about communalism are themselves unabashedly 
communal. Some people who say they are non-violent, are co-operating with violent 
organisations; many who are talking about anti-corruption are certainly cooperating with 
corrupt individuals. A certificate has even been given to the RSS to the effect that it is 
only a social service organisation. Anybody who has read the speeches of RSS leaders, 
made over the last few years, can judge for himself. Have these speeches anything to do 
with social service or social welfare or cultural subjects ? They are purely political, 
venomous speeches. Many of them are positively against certain communities in India. 
And I saw in some newspapers that RSS leaders themselves make no bones about their 
truc aims. In fact, if I may quote : ‘‘The line between politics and social service is thin” 
and again : ““We want to influence politics”. 


These are some of the visible contradictions. One may imagine that they can be 
temporarily ignored. But they have their impact. This so-called non-violent movement is 
giving strength to these forces and these groups which will destroy even those who are 
supporting them today. Such faces have been given respectability. They have been given 
Opportunity to reach out to areas where they had no foothold before. This is extremely 
dangerous to the future of this country. 


As I said, the democratic system provides legitimacy to any normal opposition activities. 
But the strategy which some opposition parties are following is a selective smear campaign 
by a very odd collection of self-styled moralists. To blacken the reputation of people in 
the Government is cynical and also immoral. As I have said on many occasions, if they 
are against corruption, they should speak out about the corruption of those who are with 


oe a ie \ oe tnd 
gta nd fd el a ame sere oy 
5200 21002 22201 Rese ke 
SERRE, BSS RES 


<i 

ye 

mS 5 00०५९ 5 = ok e 2५ “चर 
PRO OS OOO Ee EN RENE 


ey 
oe 
Cs 


RN 
aes 


ae 


rate an 
SE, 


See 


we 
222 
००५१, 


मय 
na (२57 ए चर; 
rote re 2४ 5२४: 2५ 
22222 a 


cece. 


one 
RENTS 
Sete 


. 
/३०३५०१९१० ate’, 


20 22020 2:20: 
Segments 


POR RRORORE 
Aga Oren 


eS 


ONE 
722 ee 


oe 


oe 

९ 
९५ “०22 as * 2 67 ose, fa ae en we renee S a 82 cx) ६] लक बज १५१ o 
Seats cee ee ९2222 Biss 7:25: ES SRR eae oR 


eee 


Bs 22६6: 
1022 
re se 
Ae 
ce es 


५५४ 
pation 


them, not only of those who happen to be in the Congress today. It is astonishing to claim 
“that a race of shining knights will be born by the Jan Sangh and Jan Sanghrsh Samitis. 


There also seems to be a policy of issuing certificates to some in my party in the hope 
that they will drive a wedge in the Congress. Well, of course, it is for our Members to 
decide what they do. I sincerely hope that they will not succeed 11 this. I believe Congress 
is too large and too open a party to be undermined by this type of incitement. 


Shri Bhupesh Gupta especially referred to our friend and colleague, Shn Lalit Narayan 
Mishra. He was a man who was loyal to the country and to the people and he did good to 
friend and foe alike. His death is not a loss merely to our party but to the country. There 1s 
no doubt that the wave of hate which was let loose in Bihar and elsewhere culminated in 


his death. From character assassination to assassination 1s not a long step. What ghoulish . 
relish the Opposition has shown over his tragic death ! To us, Sir, the death was bad enough. : . 
But the manner in which his opponents have tried to make capital out of it is even worse. ae 
They have tried to question the progress of the investigation and they have questioned ae 
even the appointment of a Supreme Court Judge. The assassination came as a great shock. oe 
And I thought that this very shock would help us to pull ourselves together and realise cS 
where these agitations were leading us and to feel that the time has come when things had o 
gone far enough. To cry halt and take a new look at what is happening. . 

Nobody denies the need for reform. Earlier 1 spoke both about electoral reforms and 
edcuational reforms. But this is not the way to bring about reforms. Far from it. We are S : 
creating violence and indiscipline in educational institutions, which will be very difficult ce 
to remove of any time. If people believe in non-violence they should not be free and ready . 


to provide alibi for violence. Corruption is bad and has to be rooted out. I spoke earlier of 
pests. Just as the pests eat up our crops, corruption also eats into the foundations of our 
national life and it must be exterminated as pests are exterminated. But we should take 
care that the pesticide which kills the pests does not kill all life and that is what I feel 
these agitations are trying to do. There is need for a national campaign for cleaning the 
nation of the corrupt and the corruptors. But first of all the anti-corruption effort should 
be channelised along clean lines, and legal lines. Charges against those in public life can 
be gone into by people who are capable of sifting evidence. The public cannot take action. 
But we do want popular help in pointing out corruption where they have personal 
knowledge of it. There may be corruption in the administration or in the Government and 
it should be rooted out. There is no question about that. But we know there is also corruption 


ae 


ERR 


ox 


> 
22/0:20:2; 


at the lower levels and you cannot deal with one and not with the other. At the lower levels 2222 
we need the help of the people especially those who live in the neighbourhood and who - 
may have greater information as to what is happening in their areas. And, if they feel strong, oe 


about these matters, if students feel concerned, then they should try to find out the facts i 
and come out to help. I can assure them that in this they would have our support. But this 
does not mean that they are free to beat up people or set fire to buildings. I am sure that 
anybody who will look carefully at this matter will agree that corruption cannot be 
counteracted by the kind of agitations which are themselves financed by corrupt elements. 
That is merely a way of hoodwinking the public and the nation. 


SES 
SS Ss 
SE 


४१५» *०९५००९,०,०, 2 ०, 122 sx 2222 5 4222 i 22222: ७० 7८4६८ 422; x [2०72 ot 41222: 
PSS ee igi 622 222 22227 72222: 22222 2272 2270 20% d 
seep ner 22222 22222222:22: tig te oe 22222: 22 re '८::7777272/7757 7 | 
Searels 4222: 22222 Te 22125 2222 CBE eon at AOL oe OAR oy 
PRPC RRA % LEASE SAR IOOPL ORAEREEREE 7 es Atte, 


142 2 


My name has also been bandied about. I do not know what to say because all kinds of 
allegations have been made, starting from 1953, or some such date. My life has been as 
open as anybody’s life in the country...(/nterruptions). I am not one of those who believe 
in the accumulation of money or property. There was nothing to urge me to give away my 
ancestral property. But now when matters are raised, I can only say, as I have said before, 
that nothing wrong has been done and that I would never countenance any such thing being 
done in my name or by anybody near to me. All the questions that have been asked in the 
House have been fully answered time and again. Whatever people’s intentions may be, 
today an atmosphere of witch-hunting is being created—there is selective attack on certain 
people. 


On the larger question of proprieties and improprieties, we should evolve certain 
national procedures through the wisdom of our public opinion and our Parliamentary 
prudence. Some countries have adopted the method of street corner tribunals. But is this 
what we want in our country ? Has there not been great injustice where such decisions 
have been left to the public ? The guilty may receive punishment, but along with them 
quite a lot of other people get involved merely because of private quarrels or disagreements. 


Why do we use the word “witch-hunting” ? I do not know how many hon. members 
have studied that period of British history. Suddenly an atmosphere was created that certain 
women were indulging in witchcraft. If you did not like a particular woman, you left a 
black doll or some such token in a corner of her house. People would come and search 
and declare “Oh! this woman is a witch; she should be burnt”. It was the most horrifying 
period of history. Some years ago there was a play on this subject, which my father and I 
attended. But I had read about these happenings much earlier. This is how this phrase came 
into being. It was not as if there were real witches, hunted by people. Suddenly a hysteria 
would be created. Calculated innuendo would arouse suspicion and the public would get 
agitated. 


Now this also gives rise to corruption. Corruption is not of one kind; it is of many 
kinds. Public morality and behaviour cannot be promoted by elevating gherao or rowdyism 
into satyagraha or condoning actions of disorderly groups of youth against teachers as our 
friend said yesterday, or any other group. We now have a situation where youth power is 
not being directed into constructive channels. Sometimes it is said : See what has happened 
in China. But it has only happened with the most tremendous discipline and hard work, 
not just by people deciding who is going to teach what and how ? 


The other day I made a statement about our understanding with Sheikh Abdullah. 1 
was Surprised—not that day but a couple of days earlier—to hear the remarks of an hon. 
Member—when he said that we had come to this agreement since Sheikh Mohd. Abdullah 
was now for the Congress. This is a ridiculous-statement. It is not a question of personal 
or party agreement, but of national commitment. 


If we have been able to come to some conclusions, it is because it seems to us that 
Sheikh Sahib has publicly committed himself to certain basic points to which we have 
always subscribed. Sheikh Sahib changed his views but we remained on firm ground. When 


143 


base POET A Ree oe ९०५४४ ners, CANO NY, ५५८८६ we 3०१४2 nS 
2 2340 22222 ee ee ee 


122४2: 


oe 
ae 


2 Ns : 
RN sett SR AN 


ce 


PERRI 
a 


ee 


EIA EAL 
SUES ok 22220 
ORF PE 


RRR 


wee 


ie di 
०१९३३ 
३ 
(५ 


he decided to rejoin us on our ground, which is a national and not a party ground, we 
thought that we should take cognizance of it. Members know that Sheikh Sahib was in 
the thick of the freedom struggle from 1935, that is when I first remember seeing him. He 
played a major role in arousing the consciousness of the people of Jammu and Kashmir. 
He formed the National Conference which was part of the State’s people’s movement for 
independence. He directed the people of Jammu and Kashmir towards secularism and a 
more progressive social outlook. In those days this was not easy because of the pulls of 
the Muslim League and other factors. He and his colleagues had to work hard and we all 
worked closely together for the common aim, that is, the independence of India, of which 
Jammu and Kashmir was integral part. Late, there was some disagreement and the 
Government of India did not hesitate to take action. Sheikh Sahib now says that there was 
a misunderstanding and that we did not take the trouble to fathom the true facts. I do not 
want to go into all that history. I am only trying to explain that in spite of what happened 
in the intervening period, if Sheikh Sahib now seems to have returned to the national 
mainstream, we should all welcome this and we should understand that if it is not easy 
for us, it is even more difficult for him. It is very dfifficult to come back and if I can take 
you into confidence, he is very angry with me personally because he feels that I, not 
personally as Indira Gandhi but as head of the Government,—have been responsible for 
his imprisonment for so many years. All this bitterness 1s directed fortunately not towards 
India, but towards me. It is not easy for him to forget the past suddenly. But we have both 
tried to reach an understanding so that a new chapter can be opened. This does not mean 
that the people of Kashmir were not with us. The people have been loyal and have worked 
for us. I mean they worked for Kashmir because they realised that the interest of Kashmir 
was linked with India on account of our basic policies. In fact, this 1s what Sheikh Sahib 
himself used to say earlier and he 1s saying it again. So, this is a new experiment and I 
sincerely hope that this experiment will work. But it will need a great deal of understanding. 


I do not think we should get excited by small things or by a word which 1s uttered. It will’ 


take time before the things are evenly balanced and we can progress along the road to 
understanding. I am glad that, leaving a small group of professional dissenters, the nation 
has overwhelmingly welcomed the agreement. Perhaps, hon. Members have heard that even 
the hartal which was asked for by the Jana Sangh has not been successful. I think this is 
because of the understanding appeals to the good sense of our people. They realised that 
it is sStatesmanship to solve a problem which has grown over the years and that vision and 
goodwill can cut any political Gordian knot. I think vision and goodwill have been displayed 
by Sheikh Abdullah, Syed Mir Qasim and all the people who have handled the question 
from outside. I give my good wishes to the Government and the people of Jammu and 
Kashmir for their progress so that they will continue to make even greater contribution to 
the political life of the nation of which they are an integral and inalienable part. I referred 
just now to the Jana Sangh hartal. Perhaps those of us who have studied politics will not 
be surprised that the Jana Sangh from inside and Pakistan from outside should be opposed 
to this understanding. This is another proof that communalist forces always hang together. 
Proceeding from opposite directions, they manage to clasp hands. Anything that strengthens 
secularism is and has been repugnant to Pakistan. 


ee 27:00 05 ON LL Le CARE 22005: PCCP LA 20275 27/72/2७72 Te ok ००८ 
Sr ee ae rea Dated बरी बजट Sk Sf ANS of gD Ee Mat GI Me a tea Sali a? oa tan का जद al Dae ० at TE न" 5१ 


TEE EEE: 
222 22 2222 22222 222८ 


मर, व 
vo gee PLL LIE Sh 


« 


रा 


PT NS) 
He ta ratte 
ROBT a 


are 
००००५. 
Sere 
SARS 
10713 
2:02 me 


UREN 
= 


os 
28025 
ete 


ae 
rovers he 


ys 

४ 
ie 2220 
eae, 
५०४५ 


पा 
aex 
०१५5 बानी लग्न, 
eS 
SRS 


fe 
a 


The other day I purposely did not speak about Mr. Bhutto because this matter is a purely 
domestic one and we resent any outside interference in our affairs, which is what Mr. : 
Bhutto's call for hartal amounts to. Had we said anything at all about what is happening ee 
in Baluchistan and the North Eastern Frontier, how would he have reacted? He and his ee 
friends in other countries are raising the issue of Sikkim. Hon. Members have, perhaps, 
noticed that it was in that very week—what a strange coincidence—that Pakistan very 
quietly took over the State of Hunza but not a whisper, not a sound either out of China or 
the U.S. or by any of our newspapers, for that matter. Nobody has commented on it. But 
there is always a hue and cry when we do something. We earnestly hope that on further 
reflection, Mr. Bhutto will appreciate that we wish sincerely to resolve Indo-Pakistan 
differences by bilateral discussions and in accordance with the Simla Agreement and that 
this understanding on Kashmir which we have reached will be a help and not a hindrance 
to the normalization of relations with Pakistan. But, of course, the path is strewn with 
difficulty. I think Pakistan’s new belligerancy coincides with the beginning of the fresh 
flow of arms. The moral of this coincidence should not be lost on the world. It is totally 
specious to argue that arms should be supplied to Pakistan because we in India are 
developing a self-sufficient defence industry. I think it is dishonest to argue that our nuclear 
research poses a danger to Pakistan. As we have said time and again, our investigation of 
peaceful uses of nuclear energy poses no military threat to any one. The decision of the 5 
U.S. to resume the arming of Pakistan shows that the policy makers of that great country iS 


SNe 


IPCI A SFY AIOE AIR OD 

RR ९४222 228:2 
जम ००23२ rete 
wei ecehche oe Ronee eons 
SORE RNY Oe -०००४५००००८५ 


335 
1, 


अप. ५००65 एप रक 2 anata ० पक २५०० ८०० cen 1 72 
Sige 5०८2० Sites Sia ont sen Ne ee 2 even 
Pa १७ १.) ५,» v . ~ 


Aa) 


ean Re 
92223 


See nn 


Seats 
22222: 
NS 


continue to subscribe to the fallacy of equating Pakistan and India. It 18 this policy which 


i eects Ao oN Rees 
० 22:07: ०० 40००६ 
Bee Senne RE 77 2777 


has caused tension on the sub-continent. This decision amounts to the reopening of old 
wounds and hinders the process of healing and normalization towards which we have been 
ki डे eS 

20020 

working so persistently. 
I do not intend to go into a greater details about our relations with foreign countries. 20280 


The President’s Address gives a succinct account of the improvement of relations with 
our neighbouring countries, near and far. Difficult problems await us in the field of 
international economic diplomacy and our success depends upon the internal strength and 
unity that we can generate in our country. This is the specigl reason why efforts to create 
doubts, division and disarray should be halted. Our economy is on the mend but we are 
not yet out of trouble. To carry forward this process of recovery, all our energies are 
required. The economy will not improve if political quarrels continue to divert the people’s 
attention from these basic problems and even prevent democracy from functioning as it 
should. As I have said earlier, opposition parties have every right to seek power. But they 
should do so by spelling out their policies and securing the people's approval for those 
policies. 


Today the opposition axis is vague about their economic policies and their foreign 
policies. In fact, they are so busy with programmes for agitations that I do not know whether 
they have any time to think about policies or discuss them or to notice what is happening 


all around. 


This agitational group includes all those who are dead-set against non-alignment and 
even trade with socialist countries. They want us to move away from the Soviet Union 
which has been our consistent friend in our times of trouble. 


— 80000 7700 200 6 


४५ RSS ms 
22 a 


oe 42222 


One hon. Member advised us to be greater friends with China. I do not want to talk 
on this subject. It has been discussed on so many occasions. Isn’t it rather strange that 
people wish us to deny a friend who has stood by us, who has never put any pressure on 
us nor made any demands on us on the baseless assumption that we may barter away our 
independence. On the other hand, whose friendship do they promote? Those people who 
do not want our friendship, those people who do not take our outstretched hand, those 
people with whom friendship is not as warm as it should be. It is not because we have 
been found wanting. It is because of what they have done and what they have said and 
what they are saying that our relationship is cool. 


Opposition groups include parties who have the quaintest notions about social equality 
and social justice. There is one group whose record of dealings with the Scheduled Castes 
is Most unsavoury. So, it becomes our duty to guard the nation against all these internal 
weakening forces as well as external enemies. The Government will not be found wanting 
in this duty. My effort has been to lift the sights of the Government and the nation higher. 
I know that we have made many mistakes. I know that there have been shortfalls in our 
programmes, some of which are due to our own errors and some due to events and 
happenings beyond our control. But, can any country just keep looking at the difficulties 
and the shortfalls and the failures ? 


One hon. Member complained that the President’s Address has not spoken of the future. 
I think it has given direction for the future. You can only reach the future if you walk 
towards it. What are most of the opposition parties doing? They are not looking at the 
future. They are just looking at their feet. They are trying to rake up as much mud as they 
can so that all problems are obscured—the basic problems, the basic vision of the people 
is obscured. They are raising doubts in the people’s minds about their own capacity. We 
need resources, we need money, we need equipment, we need machinery and we need 
raw materials. But, if we do not have, if the nation does not have, self-confidence then all 
those things will not help the nation to go ahead. It does not matter how much funds Shri 
Subramaniam can raise or how much he can set apart for various items. We are trying our 
best to save. But, without self-confidence and without a clear direction, the nation cannot 
go forward. 


A large country like India must act with an inner conviction of its strength. I have 
tried to devote my life to build a tolerant India, a secular India and a peaceful India. I 
wish to continue to work for it and devote all my energy for it and, if necessary, die for it. 
Let us not be bogged down in petty squabbles which diminish the nation. Let us deploy 
our strength to face the issues which affect the long-term interests of our people. 


Sir, I hope that those who have put in amendments will withdraw them and that the 
House wiill accept this Motion. 


26 EET OE OTC CCC EEE EEE: 
LEE 2 Lee 22 22 22 है ५2 gee a? 22% Ee 4:22 22002 
62.2, 2222४ 2222 2८222 ८८20: I Woe CR eee Tate rane 

ee ८:22: eee SA AD PLD STR lg SRG, A 


MOTE RR EI, oe 


A Bird’s Eye-View of Government Policies* 


Mr. Deputy-Speaker. Sir, yesterday we had a meeting of Members of Parliament to 
renew our allegiance to the Constitution. As I sat there watching the portraits of the 
luminaries of our independence struggle and thought of the speeches one hears and the 
remarks and comments that are quite often made outside and also about what Indians say 
when they go abroad, I wondered why it is that so many people think that to serve the 
country means to condemn it. So often when people get together or meet foreigners, they 
seem to find pleasure in decrying what has been done here. I doubt if there 1s another land 
where elected representatives and others are so given to running down their own system, 
their own people and even, if I may say so, themselves. 


I do not know if this is some deep-seated psychological malady. So far as the Opposition 
is concerned, it cannot be merely because they are out of power, because all of them have 
formed governments in one State or the other. When they had their SVDs, UDFs and other 
initials there was the same inadequacy and a kind of imbalance. Unfortunately, some in 
my own Party also lack confidence and are best with pessimism. 


मंद ok ok मं मंद ok ae 2c 2k 


The Opposition has every right to criticise the executive. In fact, democracy is the one 
and only political system which assigns a recognised role to the Opposition. But in 
parliamentary democracy, the Opposition also has a responsibility not to obstruct policies 
which are voted upon by the Parliament. Once they are voted upon by the Parliament, 
they are not just the policies of a party, they become national policies. This understanding 


is lacking. 


Some people—political parties and groups—are candid enough to admit their lack of 
faith in parliamentary democracy, but still would like to remain to wreck the system from 
inside. Others swear by parliamentary democracy without accepting any of its elementary 
conventions. Today an agitation is being carried on in the name of cleansing the system 
or altering it. So far as I can make out, they are not sure themselves of their real objectives. 
Several ideas have been put forward in rapid succession. At first scrapping the present 
representative institutions in favour of indirect fule through people’s committees, and this 
by people who strongly dislike the Soviet idea which began in the same way. Next, majority 
rule was criticised and a proposal was made for proportional representation. Now it is said 


* Replying to the debate on the Motion of Thanks on the President's Address, LS. Deb., 27 February, 1975, cc. 242-60. 


22720 


ste 


पर > ००३ ‘eras 
See 
१, Sa, ‘eas 7. os eve 
ae 
as 


St 

०००१४: 
22225 
RES 


2००५:35::7:57 


STR 
CRO a 


aoe 


OS aera 


"aoe ee’ 


eer 


५१००-००: 
ons 


ED 


eRe 

Sa ०1०००००१२३३०१९ 

RP OR ACY 
BQ हे 5 


नेक 

2 
5 सर 
= ‘ey 2 Ca . 
BESS SS 


Of 
4a 
८2८ ३१ 
(२ 


Bras 
3223 


that elections will be fought within the present system but without money. Yet vast amounts 
-of money are being used for their demonstrations. Where does it come from ? The present 
agitation is based on false premises and that is why it has taken a wrong turn. The whole 
Campaign is giving a handle to our foes and detractors in other countries. The extra-ordinary 
interest which some outside people have taken in this agitation and campaign is also not a 
little suspicious. 


There was much fanfare about a committee to reform electoral law. 


ae ak 2 ak मं 2 2 मे 


I am not trying to cut any ice.* At the moment I am trying to get some thoughts through 
you. 


akc ofc ae ae aft ak 4c af मं 


The people who see money being spent those are the people who believe.** 


ae OK जैर मंद ak ea मै 


From time to time these figures are mentioned in the newspapers also, not just by us. 
me ok ae a aie 2c me a ae 
Anyway, after much fanfar a committee was formed to reform the electoral law. I have 


not seen the report. I have seen some summanies which have appeared in the newspapers. 
Iam sorry I do not have the cuttings or the names of the newspapers ! 


ae मं मंद a मर ae aK ic 3 . 


Why cannot I comment on something which has appeared in print ?*** 


Now, it has suggested some peripheral changes but no new scheme to replace the basic 
electoral system so far as I could make out from those comments. It recommends that a 
new system should be evolved by consensus. What else have I been saying ? And may I 
ask : did the Constituent Assembly not represent such a consensus ? Are the present agitators 
wiser, abler, more dedicated, more farseeing, better endowed with legal, constitutional and 
political insights and experience than the remarkable group of men and women who drew 
up our Constitution ? 


te मे मैप मंद मर 2k oe 


* Replying to Shri Shyamnandan Mishra’s comments, ‘These do not seem to be cutting any ice with the people. 
You have overplayed these things”. 


** Replying to Shri Shyamnandan Mishra's questions “What is the basis ? You say vast sums of money are being 
invested. Who believes you ?” 


*** Replying to Shri Atal Bihari Vajpayee’s remark, “Please do not comment”. 


148 न 


52:22:5:22-:7०5:-०:::-.1: 


No Mr. Mody, they had stated themselves that they were not infallible and certain 
changes would be needed*. This does not mean that we should throw out the Constitution, 
lock stock and barrel. The main grouses seem to be that the Constitution works and the 
anger against the Government also is that in spite of the fact that we are not, we do admit, 
as efficient as we should be and we would like to be, the Government also works. The 
system that they seems to be advocating at present is one in which there will be increased 
production without factories working, Government is to function better while its employees 
are attending rallies and are absent from their posts of duty. The executive they want to 
instal in the place of the present Government is one which would have the brain of the 
CPI (M), the heart of the Cong. (O), the tongue and the lungs of the Socialist Party and 
the hands and feet of the Jan Sangh... (/nterruptions) 


ac ate ak ake मंद afc took ak 


I disagree with what hon. Member Shri Gopalan said, but what a relief to have 
arguments, even wrong ones, softly spoken ! Is he really serious when he states that the 
rights of religious minorities are being suppressed ? We know that there are incidents, some 
of them serious, and all of them we deeply deplore and condemn. We must do everything 
possible administratively and otherwise to see that these incidents do not recur. I should 
like to take this opportunity of expressing my deep sorrow at the happenings in the Jama 
Masjid area and my sincere sympathy to all who suffered there. There were similar incidents 
elsewhere, including one in Bombay which calls for great sorrow. 


a 3 OK aK ake और ak 2c a 


If the police are responsible they should be condemned, whoever is responsible should 
be condemned, but the very fact that such incidents take place 1s a blot on the country as 
a whole, whoever may be responsible**. It is a question of social attitudes and the way 
we let emotions get the better of us sometimes. But.if there 1s anything of which our people 
are legitimately proud, (with certain exceptions of communal elements) and which the world 
as a whole recognises in India, it is the equal rights and unfettered freedom which the 
followers of all religions enjoy in our country. 


It is not necessary for me to embark on a full review of the economic scene, because 
the President’s Address has dealt with the question. But I should like to correct some 
misunderstandings and misapprehensions. There has been quite a controversy on both sides 
of the House about the Minister of Industry’s remarks regarding private participation in 
public undertakings. Because of the shortage of resources and in order to give the people 
a greater sense of participation in national projects my colleague suggested that the investing 
public might also subscribe to a part of the capital of a public undertaking. This was a 
proposal for discussion. If you like you could call it food for thought. It certainly does not 
mean that Government is going to disinvest or that private participation is going to be 
allowed in all public undertakings. 


* Replying to Shri Piloo Mody’s remark, ‘That was your contention when the constitutional amendments were 
passed here ; you thought you were wiser than they”. 
** Responding to a Member’s suggestion, ‘You condemn the police atrocities”. 


149 


ae A मे ae a ee मर 


- Some public undertakings already have some private holding either because they existed 
earlier or because the formation agreements allowed it, and this has not in any way altered 
their basic character. If at all such a policy is to be adopted, it has to be done very carefully 
and on a case to case basis. There is absolutely no question of a sell out of the public 
sector nor of allowing large house sand others like them to enter this field. 


aK a 3 a ak a मंद a ae 


That is a matter that is being discussed.* If there are difficulties we should see how 
they can be overcome; if they cannot be overcome, some other way may have to be found. 
The question is whether savings should be mobilised only through taxes or can the public 
at large contribute in some way directly to public investment ? When savings are dispersed 
and funds are necessary for public investment, can there be a method of direct investment 
of such savings ? These are the questions which we have to consider and I would certainly 
like the views of the hon. Members opposite. I believe the Government of Kerala did some 
such thing. It had the night idea when it mobilised capital from the rural people in every 
district of Kerala for a coastal shipping centre. This is the way in which one could involve 
people in what is happening 1n their state and their district. 


aK IK oe a ae a me ae मर 


This is a particular way of mobilising public saving. Some people speak of the public 
sector as though it was solely their concern. Not so long ago, the public sector was decried 
day in and day out and every attempt was made to dispense with it. But we did not lose 
heart. We stood firm and expanded it to cover many important area. It has grown big and 
is doing well. I am sure it will grow further and do even better and play a crucial role in 
our national life. And I hope, even Mr. Mody will welcome it. 


me ae ae ae a a afc ae afc 


It has already started performing.** 


Some hon. Members have complained that very little progress has been made in 
irrigation during the last 25 years. This is far from true. Our irrigation potential has been 
doubled from 22 million hectares to 44 million hectares. Because of this and the 
corresponding increase in food production, we have been able to look after ourselves in 
good years, and only in bad years do we have to make marginal imports. But we must 
make every effort and we must work towards a situation in which we can support ourselves 
in good and bad years and also accumulate reserve stocks. I do not think it is fair to our 
farmers or to our agricultural scientists and many research programmes to say that nothing 
has been achieved in the field of agriculture. 


* Replying to Shri Indrajit Gupta’s remark, “How do you prevent that ?” 
** Replying to Shri Piloo Mody’s question, “When will it start performing?” 


Loti | rane nen cates 
ata at 22227 


ate nie 


a ee is sh 22222 

I ag ee 

SLRS Ses 
cy 


150 


1० ०००२०००१०००१०१०:०००१००० ८००८०“ Gaver न नल न धान erate atattareratatdipreedthrtartsraraarerane' 
::८००६०:००००००१:०:८००००५ ८००22: 7०7०२: ०22.07::7:700:7 07777: 0:77: 


SR 
52003 55/225:%:%5 


RRR 2०2०20402, 5०८०० नम पञचाप 
Lo 
SE 
BRS 


८०5 ae 
3 sence 


SESSA 
47200: 
press 2 Penns 

BRS Ae ee 


2020४: 


75 major irrigation projects and 155 medium projects are now under various stages of 
implementation. We hope that most of them will be completed in the next'4 to 5 years, so 
that a susbstantial irrigation potential can be added. There is also scope for more economic 
use of water and better utilisation of the available irrigation potential. I have given 
instructions that special attention should be paid to these aspects, because we all realise 
how very important this is to our economy and our future. 


Some hon. Members expressed anxiety about the delay in settling inter-State water 
disputes. We all share this concern, but all of you know with what difficulties the problem 
bristles. Water is a State subject and issues have to be settled mainly between the concerned 
States themselves. We at the Centre have been doing our utmost to bring the States together. 
One hon. Member accused the Centre of taking a partisan attitude in the case of a particular 
dispute. I would say this is wholly unjustified. The Centre has been trying hard to bring 
about a just settlement of disputes whether regarding the Cauvery, the Narbada or any other. 
However, such matters are surcharged with emotion. Hon. Members know that as soon as 
such a question arises, all party divisions are wiped out. Instead of getting together on 
something positive, we only get together on such issues. Even if a reasonable proposal 1s 
made, nobody is willing to agree, for fear of criticism and unpopularity in his own region. 
If it is fair, then both sides consider it unjust. There was a proposal of declaring water as a 
national asset. I am all for it and if need be, (with Mr. Mody’s permission!) to amend the 
Constitution to enable us to do it. But the consent of the States is necessary and most of 
them have disapproved this move. I would appeal to all parties not to politicalise this vital 
question but to adopt an attitude of give and take, keeping in mind not only the local interest, 
which is of course important, but the overall national interest. 


One hon. Member considered Government’s policies to be anti-farmer. In fact, this 1s 
a slogan that is often repeated in some parts of the country. Others accuse us of being pro- 
Kulak. We are neither. All these years it has been our effort to make all that 15 necessary 
to increase agricultural production—water, electricity, fertilizers, or improved seeds—all 
these things are made available at reasonable prices, and to ensure that the farmer gets 
remunerative prices for his produce. During the last two years, agricultural prices rose 
steeply and farmers had a good return. When there is some fall in prices, there are 
complaints. But how can prices come down generally unless there is some fall in the price 
of agricultural commodities, industrial raw materials and finished goods ? 


I was astonished to hear, even though the speech was in Tamil, from one 
hon. Member that we are callous to the drought in Tamil Nadu, and that although I had 
gone to the State, I did not express any sympathy to the people there. This is an 
extraordinary charge. On the contrary, I had several functions there and in almost every 
one of them I spoke of my deep concern. I am told the Member even blamed the Congress 
for the drought in the State. How I wish I did have that much control over the clouds! As 
it 1s, it did drizzle while I was there, but not enough to meet their needs, their urgent needs. 


Droughts have done enormous harm to us, and a succession of droughts and wars have 
put us back by a decade. Even more worrying is the damage that drought cause to young 
people and children and to their physical and mental development, even though relief 


151 


programmes have prevented starvation. No State Government should make drought an 

” occasion to try to get as much money as it can from the Centre, and every effort must be 
made to see that what is available and the funds that come from the Centre are properly 
used and reach the people who are in greatest need. But national sympathy should not be 
measured merely in terms of funds; it should be measured in the efffectrveness with which 
relief is rendered. Water conservation works should be built. This would help if the rain 
should fail again Government itself could mobilise the local people to do as much of this 
work as possible, instead of engaging contractors who might exploit the people for their 
own ends. 


Earlier on, other States like Assam, Madhya Pradesh, Orissa and West Bengal had an 
equally bad experience, the after effects of which will long be felt. Our sympathy also 
goes Out to all those who have suffered from earthquake in Himachal Pradesh. Sitting here 
we think it is cold in winter. But, can we imagine not being able to have the shelter of a 
roof in sub-zero temperatures day after day ? This is what the people there had to face 
before relief could reach them. 


One of the amendments urges the taking over of the wholesale trade in all the essential oS 
commodities, and another is about nationalisation. Hon. Members know that we are trying 
to improve the distribution as well as the production of basic essentials of domestic use. 

But obviously, we can undertake only as much as we can manage at any given time. Yet, I 
am fully conscious that a very vigilant eye should be kept on private trade to prevent them 
from exploiting the consumer. 


I have expressed my views on nationalisation many times. Nationalisation by itself 
does not improve performance, unless we have the organisational and managerial ability 
to make it a success. We are now busy modernising what we had earlier nationalised. But, 
for all this we need awareness in the public and their cooperation. 


Some members have stated that perhaps the drive against smugglers is slackening. That 
is not so. I am kept in touch with the situation. I have reminded my colleagues and I am 
assured that they are pursuing the drive. But public cooperation and information is very 
important. 


A complaint was also made about the delay in the Industrial Relations Bill. We are 
trying to expedite it. But in such a complex matter we must carry people with us. So, various 
aspects of the Bill are being considered in detail by a Cabinet Committee. 


I was also astonished to hear from an hon. Member that it is I who was propagating a 
snap poll. I am sure, nobody has heard me say that there would be a snap poll. I have 
been asked questions to which I have given very clear negative replies. 


2 oe मर मर कु: ok मर मर oe 


152 5 


You should see that they are not deprived.* I certainly do not want to deprive them. 
Normally we do not pay sufficient attention to electoral rolls. It is not only today that I 
have remarked on it. At every meeting I tell my party to enrol voters. We did tell the 
Election Commissioner not to delay this work. But it did not mean.... 


fe ae oc ai 3 oc aK मर मर 


Then they should do it properly.** Hon. Members will please note that all these 
suggestions always emanate from that side and we are blamed for them, whether there 
will be a poll or there will not be. 


Shn Shyamnandan Babu’s suggestion that all major issues should be discussed is a 
welcome one. I have said this before. I am prepared to start at once. I do not think we 
should always bother about who approaches whom. We should try to meet half-way so 
that somehow the meeting begins. Every time we get bogged down in an argument as to 
who spoke to whom and whether the right person was informed or not informed. If the 
Opposition wants to function as a unit, one of them take the responsibility, not of expressing 
the views of all because that would be impossible, but just of consulting them. 


My point is that all these controversial and major issues should be discussed not only 
by us in the House but all over the country, asking the people’s opinion on them. 


ea aK HOA मे ae he ak 


That was in reply to a very specific question***. The name and everything was 
mentioned. It had nothing to do with the Opposition parties sitting here. 


One B.K.D. Member who spoke here felt that I was standing on prestige. I can assure 
him that this is not so. No engine works if it is not kept in constant repair. No system will 
work well without vigilance. As I have said time and again, even the best of houses cannot 
avoid decay if dirt and cobwebs are not removed. We know that there are shortcomings in 
the administrative system, and perhaps, in the electoral system. But I do not think these 
shortcomings are in principles; they are only in the way of working. These we are anxious 
to correct. We are ready to consider every constructive suggestion and take counsel with 
any individual or group who is interested. Perhaps we can have a sort of round-table 
discussion on electoral reforms as one of the subjects. 


Having been an “‘angry” young person myself, although it was quite some time ago, I 
can appreciate Shri Sharad Yadav’s anger and I understand his attitude. I welcome him to 
the House and, I hope, he will inject a constructive freshness and originality here, and not 
get swept off by the jaded politics of those who surround him. He has spoken of minorities 
and Scheduled Castes. As I said a little while ago the situation with regard to these leaves 


* Replying to Shri Shyamnandan Mishra’s question, “Why did the Government ask the Election Commissioner to 
expedite the revision of eletoral rolls in a hurry so that lakhs of voters are being deprived of their valuable right 7" 
** In reply to Shri Shyamnandan Mishra’s remark, ‘It has not been done properly". 


*** Responding to Shri Shyamnandan Mishra’s questions, ‘You have told the country about dialogue. Dialogue with 
whom and for what ? What kind of dialogue ?” 


153 


much to be desired. But which country, with a long history of religious strife, has been 
able to overcome it in a few years as we have ? 


ak a a me KC और me ic a 


It has not worsened.* This is not true. Many problems such as unemployment are part 
of the general economic malaise. They do hit the: weaker sections more, and in that sense 
a person belonging to a minority community or a Scheduled Caste or a Scheduled Tribe is 
affected more. But it is part of the general situation. Atrocities on Scheduled Castes and 
Scheduled Tribes are evidence of the fight against centuries-old entrenched social attitudes. 
Instead of wasting our breath blaming one another, we should forge a united front to change 
such anti-social attitudes and to help these weaker sections in every way. 


Young people are worried about the use of MISA for students. I must say that I myself 
have been very unhappy about it. But I should like my young friends and also my old 
friends to find out how student disturbances have been, and are being, dealt with in all the 
countries around us and even in far-off ones ? Which country has been so lenient and 
tolerant towards agitations ? Some young people may be arrested here, but compared to 
the population of students, this is a small number. Even so, I deplore this; I am not 
condoning it; but I am mentioning it only so that the problem can be seen in proper 
perspective. And whenever we say anything about India let us consider with which ideal 
country or society we are comparing ourselves. 


ae 2c कं ek 2k मंप afc ak 


Just as all kinds of people rushed to join us, we see that many undesirable elements 
and corrupt persons are jumping on to the bandwagon of the present agitation. ** 


Corruption forms the centre of any debate. Charges are made without any shred of 
evidence. The test seems to be not “Is it true?” but “Ts he on our side or on the other side?” 
A campaign is being carried on to the effect that, if you remove Congress, you remove 
corruption. It does not matter if, to fight the Congress you take support and money from 
the most corrupt groups and individuals. As the President has said the Lokpal and Lokayukta 
Bill is before the House. Several States have already either adopted Bills or made some 
arrangements of their own, and I sincerely hope that it will be passed quickly here also. 
But corruption is of many kinds and it permeates different levels. I have earlier, mentioned 
the need for greater vigilance by citizens—men and women—over che affairs of their 
neighbourhood. And I personally think that that will go a very long way as a corrective to 
cleaning up our society; whether it is a question of hoarders or black-marketeers, the people 
who live in that area are the people who know most and they are the people who should 
be able to help. 


Heke ae ef ae a मर 


* Replying to a Member's remark, “It has worsened”. 
** Replying to Shri Shyamnandan Mishra's remark, “Let us have a firm declaration that MISA would not be used 
against political persons or groups”. 


522 


There is no corruption in Maruti.* Since the hon. Member has raised it, I can say that 
every question that has been asked has been replied to; nothing wrong has been done; no 
special favour should be, or has been, given because it is concerned with the Prime 
Minister’s son. 


What I was saying is that we are just as anxious as anybody else to remove corruption. 
I do not want to go into the details. I have earlier spoken about the stage by stage actions 
we have taken. I have said it in public meetings and I have discussed it with leaders. But 
today there seems to be a very selective type of campaign or accusation. Corruption will 
not go in this way. If the real intention is to remove corruption, then it must be an honest 
way of dealing with it at every level.... 


ae मंद 3 aK ak ae me af aie 


Just a couple of days ago I made a statement on Kashmir and soon we shall have a 
debate in the House. I should only like to reiterate that there was nothing surreptitious 
which some people are trying to hint at. All relevant papers have been made available. 
We welcome Sheikh Sahib back to our fold and into the national mainstream. We have 
taken a big step and so has he. Constitutional and political clauses and nuances matter, 
but I think that even more important is the overcoming of the bitterness of the past, so 
that the future can be based on trust. I sincerely hope that the mutual confidence which 
has made the agreement possible, will continue to mark the relationship between the new 
regime of the State and the rest of the country. 


It is a matter of regret that our neighbour should think it fit to interfere in our domestic 
matters. No matter what we do or say, we seem to be pounced upon. Prime Minister Bhutto 
chose to criticise Sikkim, the very week he himself had quietly deposed the ruler of Hunza 
which is in Pakistan-occupied Kashmir. Neither the foreign press nor our own press paid 
much attention to it. Had we spoken about the tragedies and sufferings of Baluchistan or 
the North West Frontier Province, we would not have heard the end of it yet. 


On the US arms supplies to Pakistan there are no two voices in India. It is natural that 
we should feel strongly, for it is we who have been the victims of Pakistani belligerency, 
time and again. The arms build-up and militarisation of the whole region is bound to 
increase the tension in the Indian Ocean. All this will cause deep anxiety and will increase 
the need for greater vigilance and preparedness. 


This year is International Women’s Year. 


Ok मं मंद 4k ek ak 


The importance is not only in what happens to the individual woman but because of 
the influence when mothers wield on the youiiger generation during the most formative 
years of their growth. We do want this year to be one which will highlight the role of 
women in contemporary society. How women who form just under half the population 


* Replying to Shri Janeshwar Mishra’s question, ‘What about Maruti?” 


155 


Can participate in transforming society, in bringing about reforms and the more rational 
and modern thinking in society, which is so necessary for our progress. But we do not 
wish the problem to be considered merely as a women’s problem. We think it concerns 
men and women. And they must both work together to make tt a success. 


May I tell a story which is a little old ? I think it happened in the fifties. The Secretary- 
General of the International Union for Child Welfare came to Delhi. A programme was 
arranged for him in a nearby village. There were the usual speeches, garlanding and so 
on. When it was all over, he said, “I have brought my own interpreter and I would like to 
remain back. I would like my hosts and others to return.” So, everybody came back. This 
was told to me by the gentleman himself. He wandered around until he came across a 
group of old men. He surmised that they might have an entrely different point of view. 
He asked them, “‘What 1s the major change since Independence?’ And one of the old men, 
after some thought, said : “Our women and children are much more alive now”. The visitor 
was astonished at this answer and asked : “Do you think this is a good thing or not? Do 
you welcome it?” And the reply was : “Had you asked us some years earlier we would 
have said, we don’t want this to happen, but now that we see the difference it has made to 
our homes and to the village and we think it is a good thing.” At the time I was the Vice- 
President of the International Union. That is how I came to know of the Secretary-General’s 
experience. 


aK 3K भर me ak और me ie मे 


We know that much is wrong in our society. But the question is whether it will be or 
can be corrected by encouraging indiscipline,—indiscipline in the army, indiscipline in 
the police, indiscipline in Government service. Only dedicated and disciplined hard work 
Can give new direction. India can hope for a glorious future only if our bright young people 
and our experienced old people take a creative and constructive attitude. Of course, many 
of us are middle aged and I don’t exclude them. 


In trying to change society democratically, many told us that we were attempting the 
impossible. But my faith in mankind and in the Indian people is boundless. I know. that 
they have the capacity to transform the impossible into the possible. But, is it not the task 
of all of us here to give them that direction, that guidance and that support which they 
will need 1n this great task? 


Reaffirming Faith in Democracy” 


Mr. Deputy Chairman, may I start with the last poimt mentioned by the honourable 
Member opposite, Shri Bhupesh Gupta, Chasnalla is very much on the minds not only of 
those sitting here but of the entire nation. These last days since we first heard of the 
calamity, our thoughts and our sympathies have been with the families of the miners who 
are trapped there. We do not yet know whether it is possible to save them, but we dare not 
give up hope until the very last moment. But we do offer our sincere prayers and send our 
deep sympathy to the affected families. It may be true, as Shn Gupta said, that all the 
safety measures have not been taken. I do not know. That is why we have instituted a 
judicial inquiry which will give its report soon—well, it will take some time before it can 
start, but once it starts, it will give it soon—and whatever remedies they suggest, even if 


It is too late to help the people in this particular case, will be a pointer for safety in future 
in all mining projects. 


This debate has been understandably largely concerned with the declaration of 
emergency. 1 have spoken on this matter at the earlier session of Parliament and I do not 
have much that is new to say. My colleagues who have spoken from this side have very 
ably put forward our case. It is not true that the world has not understood it. If you think 
that the world consists of just half a dozen countries, then perhaps what you are saying 18 
correct. But the non-aligned world, the socialist world and many other countries have 
expressed their full understanding of the situation in India, the reasons because of which 
emergency had to be proclaimed and the fact that we have acted entirely according to our 
Constitution. I do not want to go into the question of what the Press either here or abroad 
would have said or has said because other Members have drawn attention to what they 
have been saying about India these many months and years, long before the emergency 
was declared. We know where they stood at the time of Bangladesh. At that time there 
were no Press curbs; nobody was under detention here; nobody could say that there were 
curbs on democracy. But the Press of which today the Members of the Opposition speak, 
apart from some exceptions, mostly the Press and many governments stood on the other 
side; they stood on the side of the nations which made no pretence of democracy. Today 
also we find no criticism of those countries which do not have Parliament, which do not 
have elections, which do not have a free Press of any kind except, the government Press. 
No. All this opposition, all the accusations, the allegations, these are reserved only for India. 
And why ? because they say that they expected something different from India ! We are 
special angels dropped from the sky; we are so good that we cannot even be helped. Before 


* Replying to the debate on the Motion of Thanks on the President's Address, R.S. Deb., 8 January, 1976, 
cc. 218-240. 


५2८८220.0:227 20000 :::::::7:5 


२2202 


Se ०-०० स्टार Fad i a « a: ५ ०३१ ,०३ हे जि 7 


., हि SEE DNAS a 
ae 2 ४ 207722200:0% 0200 :0:/ 

77722: 22527: mn oe x “ A brain acces 3 See or | 

SRS 22225: 00225: TOO EIT HENS OT RRR O TER ORN NS awe 


Paper Se 


fe 


a) 
Seater 
Saeco 


22823 
व saa 


2 022::: 702९४ 
eee 
3 


= 
seceded 
5० 
ee 


cx 
oes 
Me atere ab 


tate 
ane 
x 


natant Bx oe Peat 

anes lavatesane. a. 
Sule Rosas 
2:2:2:05:22:5%5:: 

ta NCE FS 


SS 
ec 
ore, 


we had committed anything or we can be said to have curbed democracy, let us remember 
that we got precious little help when we were dealing with the refugees from Bangladesh, 
and some help was even cut off at that very critical time in our national history. 


I was interested to hear what Mr. Goray said. He came to see me sometimes ago. He 
had written to me. He was in America at that time and he wrote from there. I asked a 
question in my reply to his letter. He has not replied to that question. And I would like to 
ask that question not only of Mr. Goray but also of some of his other colleagues, the learned 
Mr. Joshi and others. They are very much concerned today about the demise of democracy; 
they are concerned when some body says something about other people. But we did not 
hear their voices when the Gujarat Assembly was being removed in an entirely 
undemocratic, unconstitutional manner. They did not raise their voices when the same thing 
was sought to be repeated in Bihar. We did not hear their voices when there was the threat 
of satyagraha on the floor of the House or when a Member of this hon. House wanted to 
go and occupy the chair of the Secretary. We did not... 


we ae मु 4 he oc aK 3K oe 


I am glad.* I do not know how many others have done that. 


It is a motley crowd. Somebody said “Why do you lump together all these 
people?” It is not we who are lumping people together. It is they who have lumped 
themselves together of their own free choice. Who has forced these parties to come together. 
Has anybody threatened “If you don’t come together, we will murder 707 , as we have 
been told “If you don’t do this, you will be murdered?” They were not being intimidated. 
They have entered into these alliances, the Janata Morcha or whatever you like to call it, 
of their own free will. If Shri Goray is today aligned with the RSS and the Jan Sangh, it is 
his choice. It is not we who have asked him to go along with those people. 


We point out to what 1s known history. All these things are in print. I am not inventing 
them. I cannot give the date and the figure, but I can produce that literature—I have it in 
my house, I have it in my office here—all the speeches the Jan Sangh the R.S.S. made 
about Mahatma Gandhi, about my father. Today the examples of Mahatma Gandhi and 
Jawaharlal Nehru are put before me. But they do not care to see and to read what was 
said about them in their life-tume. And are we to believe that they have changed their policy 
today ? Are we to believe that there has been a change of heart in parties that are so deeply 
rooted in violence, in hatred ? Shri Joshi complained about the use of the word ‘Fascism’. 
May be he does know what it means, but I do claim to know what it means I was in Europe 
when there was Fascism. And when we had an anti-Fascist conference 1n Patna, to which 
Shri Bhupesh Gupta referred, there were many delegates there who had been in Hitler’s 
concentration camps. They were not speaking of something that they had read about in 
books. There were people whose families had suffered. They knew what it meant to be 
under a Fascist regime. So when they spoke about Fascism, it was from personal experience. 
I wonder what personal experience Shri Joshi has had. You can read a lot of books, but I 


* Responding to Shri N.G. Goray’s observation : “I have dissociated my party from that”. 


do not think you can know what it means unless you have seen it happen with your own 
eyes. It is just like those people here who talks sometimes about freedom, who have had 
nothing to do with the freedom struggle. They cannot know what it meant to us at that 
time. It was not a question of being in prison. It was not a question of being beaten up by 
the police or having bayonets stuck into your chest by the British military. That was not 
the hard part of it. It was the constant humiliation of the Indian nation. This is what they 
did not realise at that time. At that time they were with the British. Don’t forget that. Don’t 
forget that out of the R.S.S. was born the murderer of Mahatma Gandhi, and today you 
welcome that party in Gujarat. We have Shri Ramlal Parikh here an old associate. He spoke 
about the spirit of Mahatma Gandhi. But in his State—Shri Manubhai Shah rightly 
reminded him—some of the members of his party stood on the Jan Sangh ticket and under 
the Jan Sangh symbol in Rajkot district, in Gandhiji’s district. So you make these fine and 
learned speeches. I am not a learned person. As my hon. friend, Shn Sultan Singh said “T 
am not a learned person”. I am not educated in the sense that the hon. and learned professor 
is learned. And quite frankly I do not think I have missed anything. If I have had education, 
it has been in the villages of India, it has been in the prisons of India, it has been where 
Fascism was being fought in countries far-off from India. 


Emergency was declared not because we wanted to declare emergency. Emergency was 
declared not because we are afraid of elections, not because we are afraid of abuse or false 
allegations or threats or intimidation. Had it been so, had we been afraid, we would have 
declared emergency a long time ago. Please look at the newspapers, the national newspapers 
and see what they have been saying for the last two years, what kind of falsehood, what 
kind of misinterpretation, was found in the papers. And it passed under the name of freedom 
of the Press. People who never went to villages were writing about what we should do for 
rural welfare. 


People have been blaming me all the time for ignoring the village. I had an American 
correspondent just about a fortnight ago. He said “Oh ! I have gone round the city here 
and they say you are very anti-city. You are only concerned about the rural people”. I said 
: “Only the other day, your papers and our papers were blaming me for ignoring the rural 
people. If I am dealing with them, atleast you should be pleased to that extent.” 


Emergency had to be declared because of acts of sabotage, because there was a very 
deliberate, conscious, declared effort to paralyse the Central Government. These words 
are not my words. They have been used by the leaders of movement. As somebody quoted, 
the words that the fight should be on the streets, were not my words. Nor was that our 
intention. It was the motley crowd which had got together, which raised this slogan that 
the fight would be on the streets. We can fight in this House with words and we can also 
fight with numbers on the street and when I say ‘fight’ we do not mean throwing stones 
which Jan Sangh and other members of the Front were doing at every Congress meeting, 
addressed by Jagjivan Ramji, myself and other Congress leaders during the Gujarat election. 
What is the use of their telling me : “You prove it’. I saw it with my eyes. There were 
lakhs of people and they would send small boys of this size shouting abusive, vulgar 
slogans. Who taught them these slogans ? Is it the way to create a nation ? Is it the way to 
teach them democratic and constitutional and national values ? Little boys of 9 and 10 


See RES 
का का a sake ‘me 1०, 
PRR Ree RRS 


years of age went about waving black flags and shouting vulgarities and obscenities. I 
beard them with my own ears. I do not need anybody to come and report to me. I saw 
how in a huge meeting just 30 or 25 people would get up or only 10 or 15 would rise. In 
Ahmedabad there were just 10 people who got up. But they threw stones and shoes. They 
must have collected them beforehand because they were not throwing their own shoes. 
This was how fair and free elections were being held. You heard Shri Manubhai Shah told 
how in the Surukwa village—I do not know whether I am pronouncing it correctly —of 
Borsa taluk of Khera District, the Presiding Officer was caught red-handed by our polling 
agent who himself admitted that he had already cast, 24 votes in favour of Jan Sangh. He 
had 24 more in his hand. He is now behind the bars. These are facts. Just by saying that 
everything was calm and peaceful in the country and everything was going democratically, 
you do not change facts. The fact remains that every single visitor from abroad, whether 
from a capitalist country or a socialist country or from the Asian countries, has said to me 
: “Mrs. Gandhi, do you think this in democracy ? Do you think if you continue like this, 
this country can survive ?” Every single one of them has asked me this question I have 
mentioned either जा this House or 1n the other House, that once an Ambassador had called 
on me to state : “I come at the request of the Head of our nation. What are you doing to 
Iridia ? We cannot understand your inaction.” I had to hear such remarks. Why ? Because 
I believed in tolerance. Because I thought that whatever hatred there was and frustration 
there was in the hearts of the Opposition, they would not cross a certain limit for they 
would realize that beyond a limit there would be chaos, instability and danger to this 
country, its unity, its integrity and to its very freedom. 


Democracy 1s a value which we deeply cherish, And it 1s we who have brought 
democracy. I have no hesitation in saying that parties like Jan Sangh have had nothing to 
do with it and if they had, India would not have been a democratic country. 


Some hon. Member—I was not there, but I have received his speech—compared me, 
to Hitler and to Mussolini, two very different people, by the way. But perhaps he does not 
know. Well, I do not know whether he was trying to pay a compliment because now they 
are all together with the Jan Sangh and we know that the Jan Sangh and the RSS have 
been great and open admirers of Hitler and Mussolini. Openly they said so. I have myself 
read their speeches and I have also pointed this out to the Jan Sangh leaders and they have 
mentioned that that is the kind of government that India needs. So, may be they thought 
that they were paying me a compliment. But I can do without such compliments or any 
complaints from such quarter. 


What does totalitarianism mean ? Would we be sitting here and listening to you if this 
was a totalitarian Government ? Would you be free at all if this was a totalitarian 
Government ? I spoke earlier of the Press. All over Europe, India is being blamed because 
some people are detained, because there are some curbs on the Press. But, have they had 
anything to say about the murders in Bangladesh ? No. If you kill your opponents, it is all 
night. But, if you detain them, then you are a dictator. May be that is what you would 
have preferred because, then, the question would be finished and nobody could raise it 
any more. 


हटाना a 75.6 १.८० AS en ey व. ee ry ad 


160 


ie 
bean ne 


हि C 
oe) 


I request you : Get hold of old European newspapers and see how many of them, 
excepting for brief news reports, have commented on those murders as they have done 
and as, they continue to do day after day about India’s emergency. Therefore, as my hon. 
friend here has pointed out, it is time that the Opposition took a look at these with whom 
they are marching in step. Are these the people who have stood for India’s strength? Are 
these the people who have stood for India’s unity ? Are these the people who have stood 
for India’s progress ? Why are they praising the Opposition today ? Why are they so 
concerned about you today ? They are not concerned about the people who have been killed 
or the people who have been democratically elected in other countries. They are not 
bothered about those people being killed. For them it was a good thing and they welcome 
it. But you are prepared to march step in step with them. Well, you choose your company; 
itis your affair. But don’t talk to us about democracy because it has nothing whetsoever 
to do with democracy. If we have placed curbs today, it is because democracy was in danger 
and it 1s because a handful of people, representing a minority of the Indian people, were 
trying to stop the functioning of the will of the majority ef the people. And, this was not 
something unique to this country. Any time if anybody wants to do something new, any 
time the people want to change the status quo, powerful forces come up; some are obvious 
and others are not so obvious. But the forces and their strength are tremendous. It is no 
use saying that you are a few in number. You ask the man whose house was burnt down 
in Gujarat how long it took and how much money and how much effort and how many 
labourers were needed to build that house. But how many people were needed to burn it 
down to the ground. One or two people were enough. What 1s the use of saying that we 
are SO many and you are only few and what can a few people do ? They did it and they 
have burnt down the house. We know that countries have been destroyed by handfuls of 
people. It is not a mass movement that is needed to destroy a country. If you are so sure 
as you today say, “Go to the elections and 5९९”, why didn’t you wait yourselves for the 
elections ? Why did you want to destroy the Government just a few months before the 
elections ? 


So, I am afraid, many many questions await answers. Even if I were to deal with them 
all, my whole speech would contain only questions to you all. You have not been able to 
answer any of those questions in all your speeches. 


Emergency obviously means some curbs on democracy. Nobody has said that it does 
not. But it has been said that those curbs were necessary because of the behaviour of a 
very small number of people in our country and because they were not reluctant to take 
support from other elements. Many of you may believe in non-violence. I am not saying 
that you all believe in violence and I am not saying that you all believe in wrong methods. 
But, because you did not have public support, you were willing to give in to those who 
did believe in violence. 


As today, although the Jan Sangh does not have a majority in the Gujarat Government, 
the Gujarat Government is virtually in the hands of the Jan Sangh. It does not matter who 
the Chief Minister or the other Ministers are. This is obvious from their actions and from 


what is being allowed to be done there. 


161 


~ 


For a country, democracy is important. But democracy is not an end. Democracy is a 
tool, is a means, of achieving something. And what are we striving for in our country ? 
"We are striving to take a country of 600 million people from one age to another. We are 
Striving not only to bring a better physical and material life to them, but also to bring 
something more to them—a new life where they can have the fullest development of their 
personality. 


But this cannot happen without some curbs. You cannot say that a few people will 
have every luxury, whether that luxury is material luxury in the form of land or of many 
houses or property or black money or a luxury of doing exactly as they like even if this 
harms the interests of the many. This is a luxury which cannot be allowed if we want to 
change this country and bring about a transformation of society. And thus, Emergency had 
to come. A sense of discipline has grown. But there are two islands where every effort is 
being made to destroy that discipline, where every encouragement 15 being given, who 
want to seek aid from outside to speak against India, who try and think of their interests 
before the national interests. I have said in this House before, and I have no hesitation in 
repeating, that I do not mind which party forms the Government, provided that party is 
going to stand for the unity and integrity of India. But what do we find with the Opposition 
? Are they willing to hear the voice of our people, or do they listen to same voice outside 
? What do we find ? Many of our intellectuals are much enamoured of the written word 
or speech that comes from other countries, even though that picture of India and how it 
should grow, is entirely removed from the realities of the situation here. Until we can 
strengthen the nation enough, we cannot meet this onslaught. I admit, Sir, that it was my 
fault. I fully admit that was my weakness that I allowed such a situation to arise. I admit 
that the sort of tolerance I displayed was a crime against India at that time. And I have to 
make up for that crime now, and make this country strong.... (/nterruptions)... and make 


this democracy strong.... People who threaten to get elected Assemblies dissolved have 


no right to talk of democracy, and.... 


ea a ok मर ae 2k ak 


Nobody dismissed the Government there.* I do not know whether you were there.... 


ae ok मं ae Ok 


The Chief Minister of Kerala said that he could not handle the law and order situation.... 
te ak he ah ae ae ak ok 
Anyhow, if that was a wrong decision in a very small part of India, can you declare it 


to be the right thing for the entire country ?** Therefore, you make up your mind about 
the right or wrong ....(/nterruption). 


We heard of instability. I will talk about it, because I happen to know about it. 


* Replying to Dr. K. Mathew Kurian’s intervention, “But who dismissed the Government in Kerala 7’ 


** Replying to Dr. K. Mathew Kurian’s intervention, ‘No, that is completely wrong. The Kerala Government was 
dismissed by the Centre.” 


162 Z 


When there has been instability in one or more States, we have not interfered. We have 
tolerated the situation. We have had opposition governments and coalition governments 
in many States. We have not toppled those Governments or made any effort to topple them. 


मं a a ak मं ak ak मं 


But when something is sought to be done at the Centre, it is not the same thing. If the 
Centre is weakened, then what holds the country together ? What keeps aggression away, 
how are, industry and agriculture dealt with ? What holds the different parts of the country 
together ? If the Centre is not there, there cannot be a whole country as we see India today. 
There cannot be any democracy if the Centre is weak. Therefore, when you say that people 
do not know the meaning of fascism, I would very humbly say that a lot of people do not 
know what democracy means and they are the loudest in speaking. 


The hon. Member from D.M.K. has made a suggestion about having a Round Table. 
Now was it not the very same Opposition which proclaimed that it would not recognize 
me as Prime Minister ? It was not prepared to talk with me. It was not prepared to meet 
me as Prime Minister. Therefore, whether the table is round or square I do not know how 
any talks can be held unless the Opposition changes its attitude. 


ok ae of 2 a 2k ae अं 


The Opposition front said it.* (Interruptions) We have listened to you all patiently. 
Now you just sit down. If a person who occupies the high position of Deputy Prime Minister 
can say that he will offer dharna in the House, can you have talks ? 


Reference has already been made to the tenor of a particular letter which I received. It 
was not only that. Some of you have come and met us. When we used to meet in Room 
No. 9, what was the atmosphere ? The atmosphere was not one of talking. It was one of 
attack. If we called the meeting before the draft outline of the Plan was ready, we were 
told : “Why have you called us? What is there to discuss when the Government has not 
made up its mind?” All right, then we draw up the draft outline and called them. We were 
asked: “Why have you called us ? The draft outline is ready. What can we do now?” We 
have been through many such episodes. I have always been the first to approach the 
Opposition and say : Let us talk on such and such issue. But they have found excuses. 
The latest excuse was when they said that we had approached the parties separately. We 
should have gone through one particular person. This was not in this House. It was in the 
other House. But whatever it was, some excuse or the other was found so that there could 
not be any meaningful discussion. Earlier we did have discussions. We did talk more frankly 
to leaders of the Opposition than we were prepared to do in this House or in public. We 
were prepared to take them into confidence. It is they who destroyed that atmosphere. It 
is they who created a situation in which little by little we agree apart, because we found 
that they were misinterpreting us. They were saying things outside and they could not keep 
our confidence. So, we have stretched the hand of friendship to the Opposition for 25 years. 
But they have not grasped it. 


* Replying to Shri S.S. Mariswamy’s observations, “I am sorry, Madam, who said that he would not meet you 7" 


Ses STE ets tts phot ०, ESS 
rat Go 


~ 
ne 
४४५ 


163 


While I am on the D.M.K., I would like to say something else. Something was said 
about the Press. Now, in a paper called “Tamil Murasu’, a daily from Madurai, dated 
October 27, 1975, there is a tirade against Northerners in general and Hindi in particular 
in language that is bound to incite people and urge them to violence. It is not said that you 
must be violent. But the language used is such that young people listening might get excited 
and want to do something. Similarly, in another paper called—I do not know whether I 
am pronouncing it right—‘Kandeepam’ of the 20th November, they have wnitten against 
India with regard to the Chinese intrusion into our territory. 


So, this is how some of these people are functioning. Shri Mariswamy was criticising 
the Censor in Madras as being unfair to the D.M.K. papers. Now I learn that my colleague, 
Shri Om Mehta, was in Madras recently and he was told that one of the newspapers—and 
later, I think, the cutting was sent to me—which was supporting another party but is now 
supporting us has been seized by the Tamil Nadu Government more than seven times. And 
every time it is seized, there is a loss of many thousands of rupees to the publisher. The 
publisher and the editor have approached us and represented their case and they have said 
that the seizure was on some very minor ground and only because the D.M.K. did not like 
the trend of some of their reports. So, all these. 


ae hk ae oh मं ae He ak 


While the Opposition shouted abuse and did all types of things, we could not say a 
word. But if we say, anything, and I am not using any abusive word, I am not saying 
anything against them they are so thin-skinned, they cannot bear it. What is this if not a 
guilty conscience ? ... 


Now, I want to say a word about my hon. friend, Shri Ramlal Parikh. It was obvious 
from his speech—I think he was trying to be very sincere—and he himself admitted that 
he had no knowledge of this House. Therefore, he did not know what sort of things were 
happening here before the Emergency was declared—the noise, the shouting, the threat, 
the intimidation was not occasional. It was a constant feature, a daily feature whether in 
debate or the Question Hour or on some other occasion. He spoke of reason and rationalism. 
But I am afraid that we saw little of it in the last two years in this House or the other 
House. He spoke alsc about rumour-mongering. I have said before and now I should like 
to repeat it. It is a major part of the Opposition strategy to spread rumours. They have 
been doing it earlier, long before there was any emergency. They have done it through the 
Press. They have done it through whispering campaigns, all kinds of nonsense about me, 
about my family, about the Congress and about other individuals. And this is how, they 
created that atmosphere of hate, of calumny, of falsehood which led to the assassination 
of our colleague, Shri Lalit Narain Mishra. And even after that tragedy, although they 
expressed their sorrow, nothing was done to change that atmosphere so that such an incident 
would not happen again. On the contrary, some were heard to say, “Well, it should happen 
to more people so that Congress learns a lesson.” Shri Ramlal Parikh thought that the Janta 
Front is an alternative to the Congress. I do not know whether this was his way of being 
funny—I can only see it as a joke—because if you say that a motley crowd, which does 
not agree on any policy, either on foreign policy or economic policy or social policy, can 


164 


०८:1९ ४2202 2700 ANN NR na ES “रा 
Rane: 


so 


RA 
222 
20002 20: 20220: 277: 2 प 
at a" uty 
ES Share arabes 702209 7205५ 


Sean 
BE 


give an alternative Government, where will the country go? It is all right if it is a small 
place or a small problem when you don’t have to do anything positive or take any real 
decisions or face up to other countries. But once the moment comes when you have to 
take a stand, what stand will they take? They will take the Jana Sangh stand. And as 1 
said, the Jan Sangh is no believer in democracy. He spoke of ‘no disturbances’. Has he 
denied that ten Christian houses were burnt down after the Assembly elections because 
when they were asked, “Whom did you vote?”, they said that they voted for the Congress? 
Is this their idea of safeguarding minority rights ? It’s not enough to have a Minority 
Commission or a Committee. You have to have that feeling in your hearts. And I am afraid 
the Jan Sangh and the R.S.S. certainly do not have it. You speak of democracy. I have 
taken long time, but with your permission, Mr. Deputy Chairman, I must spend some time 
on this issue. 


Those of you who are in the Congress, do you remember anything about the history 
of the Congress; how is it that years ago people kept on leaving the Congress in State 
after State; how was the Bangla Congress formed in Bengal and how were other groups 
formed and why did they leave the Congress? They left because within the Congress there 
was no room for them. Not because they openly criticised or went against the party. No, 
nothing as much as that. They were forced to leave because there was a suspicion that 
these people were not with the local boss of that time. That is how, in State after State, 
there was a division. The split that took place in Bangalore was not the first time that 
Congress was split. This had happened many times and for the same reason that the party 
boss could not bear people who were even a little bit different or who did not echo the 
party boss. This is why the Congress kept on splitting. Those are the people who are 
teaching us now how to behave in our own party and how to deal with our party members. 
Some of our members have gone out of their way to align themselves with the thinking of 
the Opposition parties, with the thinking of the so-called Janta Morcha. It does not need 
much study to see what has been happening when: they think that somebody is with me 
the attack is on that person. But when the same person is against me he becomes perfectly 
good and honourable and independent-minded. 


aK 3K मर Wi ae a me ae भर 


Not only Chimanbhai, I am talking of people who are with us.* 


They also quoted Professor Laski who was not my professor so much as one of my 
guardians when I was a student in England and mentioned doubt. It is all nght to encourage 
doubt as an intellectual pastime but when a country or house is on fire, is that the moment 
to sit and doubt about it or is it the moment to take some water and put off the fire? At a 
time when our country was facing the biggest crisis of its life, and not only in our country, 
it was a moment of crisis for the whole world. It was a moment when the entire world 
was in the grip of the biggest financial crisis that the world has known, when there was 
inflation in every country. The consequences were very severe for a poor country like India 
specially coming after a war, the whole traumatic experience of Bangladesh, its refugees, 


* Responding to a Member's remark, “Just like Chimanbhai”. 


165 


the prisoners of war and war itself, followed by two years of severe draught. Was that the 
moment to sit and doubt and think about it as to what to do or was it the moment to save 
the lives of the people? None of these matters seemed to concern you. It may be a pleasant 
pastime to sit and think and talk and discuss these things with newspaper people or among 
yourselves. But, we have the responsibility. When there was drought we could not sit and 
think what to do. There was only one thought how do we prevent people from dying of 
Starvation? How do we reach grain to them? And, we did reach it to them. When there 
was war, there was only one thought, how to win that war and we did win that war. At 
every stage when there was a crisis we have had only one thought and that was how to 
face that crisis and we have faced it with boldness. May be, we have made mistakes but I 
do not think anybody could entirely prevent mistakes when faced with crisis of such vast 
proportions. 


Some hon. Members has said here that Jayaprakashji was released because we were 
worried about his health. Well, it is true we did wish him good health and we did wish 
him get the medical treatment which he considers best. But itis wholly wrong and baseless 
to say that his illness began while he was in detention. We are all aware of his long medical 
history and of the treatment he had to undergo in Vellore and in the All India Institute of 
Medical Sciences, I think this was answered in a question either in this House or 1n the 
other House. The best medical attention was given to him and to whoever else is गा need 
of it. It is quite untrue to say that we want anybody to be ill-treated or harassed. 


But it is true that some complaints have been made and whenever a complaint has 
come to me, I have had it investigated. I have personally written to the Chief Ministers, to 
Delhi Administration, to everybody concerned, to see that any such harassment is removed. 
But most-of the complaints were found to be untrue. Unfortunately we do have insensitive 
and unimaginative people and so sometimes things happen which, if we could have 
prevented, we would have prevented. And when we learn about them we try to take ~ 
whatever remedial action is possible. But many of these things are not happening merely 
because of the emergency. If there are some policemen who are misbehaving 1n some 
remote places, well, it also happened before the emergency. I am not saying this is a good 
thing. It is something that has to be changed and we are trying to change it, but it is not 
true to say that this is a sudden development because of the emergency. It may be that 
some people in the bureaucracy, in the police or otherwise are trying to settle old personal 
scores. Some may even be trying to give a bad name to the Government. That is why I 
have specially asked the Chief Ministers to exercise vigilance and to look into these matters 
themselves and not leave them to any junior official or even a senior official. But if the 
public has any knowledge of any such happening, they should bring it to our notice and it 
will certainly be looked into. 


There was a great deal of talk about concessions to monopolists. What is the situation? 
No favours have been shown. Whatever we have done is in order to stimulate production. 
The anti-inflation measures were taken somewhat like antibiotics, designed to cure 
economic illness, but by themselves they do not lead to higher production. Other steps 
have to be taken. I do not deny that over all these years since Independence, many people 
who should not have become richer have become richer. In the beginning. I suppose, we 


had no other way out because in order to manufacture articles in our own country, we had 
to depend largely on those who had the know-how, those who had the equipment and those 
who had most of the resources. But I know that this had created an imbalance. Now we 
are trying to redress the imbalance. But our system being what it is, we can only do it in a 
manner which will not cause complete disruption because that also hits the workers 
indirectly. If a factory shuts down it creates unemployment and it creates other types of 
problems. So, all the time while we want to ensure that the commanding heights of the 
economy come into the State sector, we do have a mixed economy and I personally think 
that if it works well that is the best system for India and, if it is not working well, then the 
fault is ours as well as of the others, and we must try to remove whatever difficulties there 
are. 


We know that sometimes, just as when we are tolerant towards the Opposition they 
took undue advantage of it, the same thing happens with the industrialists also. When we 
think we are helping them out in the national interest to increase production, there have 
been cases when they have taken advantage of us. We must try to prevent such things 
happening. But I should like to assure this House that my fullest sympathy is with the 
workers. They are a class. They are a class which is important to our economic progress. 
But they are not a class apart from the rest of India. They are a part of this country and 
what happens to other people will also happen to them. 


Higher payments were not backed up by greater production and we found that this 
was generating more inflation and at one stage of inflation it hit the workers as much as 1 
hit other people. A mere eight per cent bonus does not help them to meet the increase in 
the prices of other articles which they need. In principle, I personally feel it is unjustifiable 
to expect bonus when a company is losing. There is no other country, and I include the 
socialist countries, where this is done. I think the week we declared eight per cent bonus, 
I happened to go to Ranchi, where a foreign delegation from a socialist country was on a 
visit. They asked me, “How can you do this? Will you be able to survive with this?” 


You must look after production first and then only can you think of benefits. So, I 
know that our workers are not paid as much as in some of the other countries but it is a 
process towards which we can work. Giving higher bonus now is not going to help us to 
reach that position quicker. Some of our leftist friends are painting a fanciful picture of 
the situation and I am afraid they are trying to instigate our workers. I would like to 
congratulate the workers on the tremendous patriotism which they have shown. People 
who have visited factories tell me that the workers are full of confidence and are cooperating 
with all their strength and enthusiasm in increasing industrial production. 


Some people express concern that agricultural prices are falling. But it is one of our 
national objectives that we should bring down all prices and food prices as well as industrial 
prices have fallen. Only fuel prices have gone up and you know that 1s for reasons which 
are entirely beyond our control. Government has reduced fertilizer prices by subsidizing 
fertilizer and in providing credit to help our farmers. We also have several programmes to 
help marginal and small farmers. Many mill-owners have not been behaving and the whole 
matter of textiles is not in a happy situation. The Ministry and all the Ministries concerned 
are taking a close look at it. This must be given topmost government priority. 


167 


Now just a word about the Constitution. Have hon. Members on both sides of the House 
forgotten that just a little while before the emergency, what was one of the demands of 
the Opposition? It was to change the Constitution. It was their slogan. I know that it was 
said here, either in this House or in the other House or in both Houses, that it was essential 
to change the Constitution, to change the educational system and the electoral system. So, 
it is astonishing to hear that those who, such a short while ago were demanding the overhaul 
of our entire political system, have now become such staunch champions of the status quo. 
There can be no status quo. Changes are constantly taking place in the world, in our country 
and our society and we have to keep pace with them. Changes are needed ॥ order that the 
people’s hopes are realised, and if changes are needed they will be made. Our concern 18 
more for the people’s rights than for what the Opposition says or for what other countries 
say. Personal rights are sacred but not more sacred than the nation’s right to exist and to 
prosper. 


Today we are functioning within the framework of the Constitution. If any changes 
are made they will be made after due deliberations and the widest possible consultation, 
not to lessen democracy but to make it more purposeful, more meaningful for all sections 
of the people. Just a little while before one of my colleagues sitting behind me, showed 
me a British periodical. The article has nothing to do with our situation, but it just shows 
how change is resisted everywhere. This particular article happens to be about the nights 
of women. This editorial states that ‘‘people today who view the removal of the legal bias 
operating against women’’—this is not here, this is in Britain—as an unwarranted 
interférence with individual liberty, are the lineal descendants of those who in the last 
century saw the State’s acceptance of the right of all children to be educated as the greatest 
infringement on the freedom of parental choice. 


The battle was eventually won by the collective weight of public opinion. Such is the 
battle which every change has to face, and will continue to face. 


It is obvious that the opposition movement in India was not merely getting publicity, 
but was actually built up by our Press; and it is because we denied the Opposition the 
benefit of this, their special type of publicity, that the emergency has succeeded. In a battle 
the antagonists lines of supply have to be cut off, and this is what censorship has done. It 
is true that some Censors have acted with a complete lack of imagination. I regret to say. 
But the reason is not difficult to understand. It is because we have no'experience in this 
sort of thing. Many countries which claim to have a free press have inany subtle methods 
of ensuring that Press does not get too much out of line, out of hand. We being very new 
and not being too subtle in such matters have not been able to manage it so well. But I am 
sure that hon. Members will agree with me that the type of character assassination and the 
spreading of quite baseless and total lies is not part of the freedom of the Press. Nobody 
raised any voice when this whole campaign was being waged, neither the bigger newspapers 
themselves, nor Members of the Opposition. And unless the Opposition is willing to take 
the responsibility for democracy, things cannot proceed smoothly. The Government has a 
responsibility to see that the Opposition is enabled to function, but the Opposition has an 
equal responsibility to see that governmental and national werk is not obstructed and that 
trends are not set in motion which can destroy the nation’s unity and strength. I do not 


168 


want to say anything about foreign critics. As I have said, to them China today is the world’s 
greatest democracy! If they want to have it that way, let them ! A special correspondent 
who visited India very recently announced later that our food production had fallen 
tremendously in this year, when it is one of the biggest ever. So I think we need not bother 
too much about foreign criticism. Perhaps some of you have heard the story that appeared— 
I heard it in Chandigrah—in a foreign newspaper—that a particular country admitted that 
its intelligence service functioned mostly through the Press and correspondents. Thus we 
see what is happening in the world, and how we must be alive to the situation. 


I need not take more of your time, but just 5 minutes to tell you something about what 
is happening in Delhi. The Delhi Development Authority has told me that they have 
developed 20,000 plots for low and middle income groups—8,000 have already been allotted 
and the rest are being allotted. They think that by March all will be allotted, providing 
accommodation for 40,000 families or about two lakhs of people. Twenty-five per cent of 
these have been reserved for the scheduled castes and tribes. In addition, many other houses 
are also being built. They have said that the Delhi Development Authority itself will 
construct about one lakh houses under its public housing programme for allotment to poor 
people, low income and middle income people. It will provide accommodation to one lakh 
families or about 5 lakh individuals. Some people have been removed, but they have all 
been provided with new places to live in and with alternative employment. Sometimes, 
there is a little dislocation, but I think this was necessary because now they are getting, or 
will get—most of them have got; others will get—all the basic civic amenities including 
pucca roads, drains, street lights, public latrines, pure water supply, parks, playgrounds, 
schools, dispensaries, etc.—and these will be permanently theirs. 


In most of the new resettlement colonies libraries and adult literacy centres and 
community TV centres have also been set up. All squatter families which have been shifted 
from their old and disorganised slums where the conditions of living were extremely 
unhealthy, are being resettled in these new colonies. There are lists of where they have 
gone, and so on. This is not really ‘Operation Demolition’ but ‘Operation Resettlement’ 
through which the following advantages have accrued to these people. 


These families have now become regular allottees of the DDA, instead of being 
squatters. They now live in a much better environment. Various development projects which 
were held up because of non-availability of land due to haphazard squatting are now being 
executed, and a number of new overbridges, roads, schools, shopping centres, housing 
estates and residential colonies are being fast constructed and developed. Similarly, the 
congestion in the heart of the city has now also been cleared. Of course, when people have 
to move, it does cause some hardship. But if you are going to give them a better future, 
then that temporary hardship has to be borne. And there is no doubt that as a result, 
especially the Jama Masjid area and so on have become much cleaner and much better 
looking. The people who were squatting on the steps of the Jama Masjid or on the public 
land around are now resettled in the new market in Urdu Bazar and Mayapuni. Loha Mandi 
which was in Motia Khan, has been relocated in the newly developed Naraina Warehousing 
area and so on. It is a long list. But the point is that everyone of them has been given a 


169 


place and has been given employment. If you know of any case where they still have 
hardship we will certainly look into that. 


I have taken a lot of time of the House. Sir, I want only to say that we are here not to 
further our interests. While every political party is interested in elections, we are not 
concerned merely with winning or losing elections. It is my information from almost every 
State that if we hold elections now, we would undoubtedly win. But that is not the point. 
The point is not whether we win or not; the point is whether in disturbing the emergency 
just now we will have greater unity and strengthen the country or whether all the old 
disruptive forces will be let loose and create the sort of atmosphere in which the students 
were not learning, the teachers were not teaching, the workers were not working and the 
factories were not producing. In that way a poor country will only become poorer and 
before long, the whole fabric of society would fall apart. Perhaps, this is what some people 
Opposite and some people outside might desire. But we are here for a different purpose; 
we are here to further the national interest, to carry the country and the people to higher 
achievements and greater strength. 


Thank you, Sir. 


170 7 


Twenty—Point Programme* 


Mr. Speaker, Sir, as usual there has been a long debate on the President’s Address. 
But, for the first time, I felt that the speeches tried to argue rather than abuse. Even so 
many Members were not able to get away from their old narrowness of thinking and some 
arguments, if I may say so, were rather self-destructive. 


Obviously, the President’s speech cannot be all-embracing and cover all the points 
which are of interest to us or to the nation. He spoke specifically of the Twenty-Point 
Programme and that subject also found mention in most of the speeches in the discussion. 
An hon. Member opposite, Shri Sezhiyan, referring to the twenty-point economic 
programme asked rather derisively, ‘what happened to the Fifth Five Year Plan?’ Now, 
the twenty-point economic programme is not in lieu of the Fifth Five Year Plan nor does 
it in any way conflict with the basic objectives and goals of the Fifth Five Year Plan. 


What is the philosophy of the programme? My hon. friend, Shri V.K.R.V. Rao, put it 
in perspective. The programme has to be looked at as a whole. First, it deals with immediate 
tasks and long-neglected ones. It has introduced new priorities in identufying programmes 
of special concern to those at the very bottom of the ladder and to impart a new thrust and 
vigour to their implementation. Urban people—students and house-wives—have not been 
forgotten. Then, there are long-term programmes such as those for irrigation and power. 
It also contemplates a multi-pronged drive against economic evils such as blackmoney 
and smuggling which erode the resource base of our Plan. If implemented in right earnest 
and with a due sense of urgency and mission on the part of all the agencies concermed, the 
programme will make a quick and perceptible impact on the lives of our people. It will 
rouse public enthusiasm and secure a greater sense of commitment of the people to the 
goals of our Plan. Thus, it will lay the foundations for a speedier advance in the years to 


come. 


The important thing to remember is that at a moment of raging inflation, we have taken 
up a major developmental programme which does not increase inflation but contains it. | 
do not think that this can be called a small achievement. It is an ideal expressing itself in 
real and practical terms. Needs and justice have been sought to be met. 


The hon. Members also referred to the delay in the finalisation of the Fifth Plan. It is 
a canard to say that we have given up the Plan. The basic strategy and objectives of the 


* Replying to the debate on the Motion of Thanks on the President's Address, L.S. Deb, 9 January, 1976, 
ce. 136-56. 


171 


Fifth Plan remain valid as I have said on previous occasions in the House. They are 
economic self-reliance, the development of domestic resources of energy and the removal 
of constraints of production such as shortages of power and transport. In fact, these 
objectives of the Plan have now acquired heightened significance in the light of 
developments on the international economic scene in the last two years. Unfortunately, 
the hon. Member opposite and his party came to power by exciting the people on a narrow 
provincial basis. But, we in this House, cannot ignore the wider aspect. Economic upheavals 
have thrown the economies of most developed countries into disarray. Countries which 
have until recently maintained a rate of growth of 10 to 15 per cent. per annum have had 
to lower their sights are now faced either with a negative or a negligible rate of growth. 
Countries which used to pride themselves on their record of price stability have become 
victims of double digit inflation. Was it possible for us to completely insulate our economy 
against the blizzard blowing across the international economic scene? If there is delay in 
the finalisation of the Fifth Five Year Plan, it is because, we would like the international 
economic situation to stabilise a little so as to enable us to plan with a greater degree of 
certainty and assurance. It is wrong to think that the Annual Plans are ad-hoc exercises. 
Annual plans are formulated within the framework of the Five Year Plan and seek to further 
the objectives of the Plan. We have tamed the inflationary forces that threatened to wreck 
our economy. Prices today are some 7 per cent lower than this time last year. This is an 
achievement of which we can be legitimately proud. 


Our success in the anti-inflationary campaign has given us a new sense of confidence 
and has improved the outlook for the Plan. In 1975-76, we provided for an increase of 
nearly 25 per cent in plan outlays. We are aiming at a further substantial increase in the 
outlays for the next year. The House should remember that the world situation today is 
very different from what it was when we began planning. 


State plans which are largely concerned with irrigation, power, agriculture and social 
services are somewhat less vulnerable to the destabilisation pressures generated by turmoil 
in international economics. Even so, what is the record of the Tamil Nadu Government in 
the implementation of its State Plan. Now, Central assistance, whether it is high or low, is 
being released in accordance with certain principles. Some States in the south such as 
Andhra Pradesh and Karnataka and in the north States like Punjab and Haryana and even 
a relatively backward State like Madhya Pradesh, have managed to fulfil the Plan outlays 
which 1n per capita terms are far higher than that of the Tamil Nadu Government. I should 
like to remind the hon. Member and his Party that during the days of the Congress 
Government under the leadership of Shri Kamaraj, Tamil Nadu used to be near the top in 
terms of per capita plan outlays. Today it is somewhere near the bottom. This 18 the plight 
to which this State has been reduced during the last 6 years. In the long run, the poor 
performance of the State in certain crucial sectors will adversely affect the prospects of 
the talented people of the State. It may fit in with the political strategy of the Party to 
make out an impressive catalogue of their minor achievements for temporary political gains. 
But I am deeply worried about the damage caused to the growth potential of an important 
State in our country or indeed of the Indian sub-continent, for in their public 
pronouncements, the DMK Government seems unable to forget their separatist philosophy. 


172 


I would not have referred to the poor record of the Tamil Nadu Government on the 
economic front but for their attempts to mislead the public into believing that the State 
itself is doing everything it can to further the economic progress of its people, while the 
Centre is standing in the way. If the State claims to have implemented the twenty-point 
programme already, it is welcome to nurse this delusion. But for me, the specifics in the 
twenty-point programme and the spirit animating it are so important that no one who has 
the welfare of the people at heart can rest content with what has been already attempted 
or achieved. 


There must be a continuous search for programmes benefiting the poor and the weak 
and a constant endeavour to improve on the quality of implementation of such programmes. 
I would, therefore, ask the hon. Member and his party not to lay that flattering function to 
their soul, as Shakespeare said, that they have already done everything that needs to be 
done to implement the programme and therefore can relax into complacency. It is not those 
clothed in brief authority but the common people of the State who will suffer the 
consequences of this grand delusion. 


I should like to say a few words about economic achievements under the twenty-point 
programme in these last six months. Consumer prices for the agricultural labourer are now 
8.3 per cent lower; 27 lakh tonnes of kharif cereals have been procured against 14 lakh 
tonnes last year; 53 lakh bogus cards have been eliminated; public sector production in 
these six months is 31.5 per cent higher than last year. Industrial production gains are as 
follows: steel is 15.9 per cent, power generation 12 per cent, coal 12 per cent, fertiliser 43 
per cent, cement 11.8 per cent, crude oil 10 per cent, 60 lakhs house sites have been 
distributed. The programme for the removal of bonded labour is well known as also the 
establishment of rural banks. Ultimately there will be fifty banks, each with 100 branches. 
Irrigation is being expanded and the Godavary accord is a welcome new and significant 
step. Handlooms have been given a loan of nearly Rs. 5 crores. Urban property evaluation 
programmes and the confiscation of smugglers’ properties are other items. Workers’ 
participation has already been effected in about 75 per cent of our public undertakings 
and we hope to expedite the programme in the remaining months. In income-tax 7.3 lakhs 
of tax-payers are now off the tax range. In the apprenticeship scheme, 1.17 lakhs of seats 
have already been filled up and work 1s progressing. 


One hon. Member opposite asked: why are people not being tried if they are guilty of 
treason? We have-I can at least speak for myself—never used this word or questioned their 
patriotism. The danger is not of individual acts but of the collective challenge which was 
being exploited by elements within and outside the country. Their political challenge has 
been politically met and the unconstitutional agitation has been constitutionally repulsed. 
The Opposition cannot any longer hope to divide the Congress or to play one against the 
other, nor will the sowing of rumours help them. 


It would be ridiculous for any person to claim infallibility. I have never done so. I have 
always considered myself a humble servant of the country. What I have said 1s that my 
assessment of trends in India and the world have so far proved correct as against the 
assessments made by most opposition leaders who usually echo the assessment of those 


173 


outside our country. This is not because of any personal quality but because I have learnt 
ffom.our great leaders to be close to the voice of the people. 


When I first mentioned foreign agencies, I was ridiculed within the country and without. 
How do we, or any developing country for that matter, prove or dispute the doings of 
agencies who have had long years of experience in a variety of countries, using all kinds 
of methods, and different sections of their own and the local population, besides, religious 
groups, journalists, academicians and so on ? This is not an ordinary, everyday crime that 
can come under normal law. To take it lightly does not speak highly of anyone’s patriotic 
instincts. Unfortunately the Member who spoke of this matter has become known for his 
cleverness in creating mischief and misunderstanding. So long as those antics were confined 
to this House one could look upon them with some amusement but now he has attempted 
to do the same in State politics with undesirable results. 


I listened with great respect to Kumari Maniben. No one says or thinks that the 
emergency is a perfect solution or that everything is for the best. There are many 
imperfections. I am conscious of our shortcomings. I know also that we have people among 
us who may not be fully in tune with our programmes. Yet we are moving ahead. We have 
not compromised on any policy matter. She mentioned abuses by the bureaucracy; we are 
also aware of that. But I should like to point out that those abuses have not suddenly begun 
since the proclamation of the emergency; they have existed before also. It is our task to 
discover the faults and to rectify them whenever they are pointed out to us or we get any 
information. I know also that the difficulties in implementation are not going to be removed 
merely by our wishing so or declaring the emergency. They will remain because powerful 
classes and powerful forces at all levels are against the implementation of our policy. We 
do realise this. All we can say is that these forces must be combated with all the strength 
at our command and this is what we are trying to do. We may have setbacks, but we have 
moved forward and we intend to continue to do so. If there are any complaints, if anybody 
knows of cases, I shall be glad-to be told of them and I shall certainly follow them up. 
Kumari Maniben also spoke of people drinking. Now, you know that we are trying to launch 
a movement against alcoholic drink. But what about that paragon of virtue in this respect— 
the State of Gujarat? During the Assembly election I heard of liquor being distributed in a 
tanker. Only the other day we all read of deaths in Surat due to the imbibing of illicit liquor. 


Kumari Maniben and her party may not believe in violence and I do not dispute her 
saying so. But why do they join with those who do? Why do they allow this violence? As 
hon. Members on our side have mentioned, there were attacks at every Congress meeting 
held before the Assembly elections. In my meetings, while the attendance was in lakhs, 
10, 15 or 25 people would throw stones, or shoes. They would shout abusive and even 
obscene slogans. I did not once hear any of their leaders objecting or instructing that that 
should not be done. One of our candidates was sought to be burnt alive and could be rescued 
only in the nick of time with serious burn injuries. In the recent elections there, there have 
been three murders of which we definitely know and many cases of violence. I do not 
want to read from the large number of letters and telegrams which I have received and 
which have been referred to the Government. 


174 5 


FRE 3०: 
*+ 
०५००७ 


mn 
ase cank 


wre Se 3 
. iv 
< 
een 


Ce 00000 00 77200 / 02000 
० ee ES Se EN es BS ane : SS oe es ese eee 20072: 02020 


222: ५ 
See ee 
20320 
SORES ८८:८६: 


Soe eas 


SR 
Sotto: 


2 5 
ty? 


oS 


०१३) 
पा 


६223 


TD 


ae ERS Be: 


= sx! 
ya बज बज व wr 
2220 Ge eae oe 


Kumari Maniben spoke of two prisoners. We all know that Shrimati Gayatri Devi and 
Shrimati Scindia are not political prisoners. They were arrested for something quite 
different. In fact, the case against Shrimati Gayatri Devi would have been brought, but 
there isoften a delay in such matters and she was arrested because of information that she 
might leave the country. I know how strongly Parliament feels when something like this 
happens and we would be blamed for not preventing it. 


Hon. Member, Shri Patel spoke of fair elections. I do not want to go into details. Some 
of our Members have pointed to what has happened in the Gujarat elections. I shall only 
mention two cases. One is about the Government official who had put 24 papers in the 
ballot box for the Janata Front. He admitted doing so when he was caught red-handed and 
actually had other such marked papers in his hand ready to be put into the ballot box, I 
believe he is now behind bars. Similarly there was the news which nobody has contradicted 
that some thousands of Harijans were not allowed to vote. They were surrounded by 
workers of a particular group. This happened in the recent elections. But before that, after 
the Assembly election, I think I have referred earlier to this, a colony of Christians was 
razed to the ground because on being questioned by some students as to for whom they 
had voted, they replied ‘Congress’. Their houses were burnt to the ground. I do not know 
whether the Government has come to their help now. But for quite some time the 
Government had not done so. Now, does Shri Patel consider it democratic or constitutional 
to dissolve a duly elected Assembly by public violence, by street agitations or a threat to 
fast unto death? We gave into Morarji only to save his life, knowing that it was a wrong 
thing to do. Not a wrong thing to save his life, but wrong to dissolve the Assembly because 
of such pressure and threat. Maniben was perfectly right when she quoted what I had stated 
about MISA. I did say so, but I would submit that the circumstances which developed 
later were exceptional and extraordinary. And, when something entirely extraordinary and 
exceptional takes place, you have to have exceptional measures to deal with it. Who 1s the 
best doctor? Is it a panel of doctors, a hotchpotch of people with different views on 
treatment? One doctor may make a wrong diagnosis, but having a number of doctors, 
perhaps with different viewpoints—one Ayurvedic, one Unani, one Allopathic, one 
Homoeopathic, one expert in Tibetan medicine or some other science—are they capable of 
giving better treatment to the country? Because, this is what it was—a group of 
heterogeneous elements in which the Jan Sangh was dominating and calling the tune. I 
don’t think that what we have heard in their speeches, what we have witnessed of their 
actions, can be the right path for this country to retain either its unity to give fairplay to 
its minorities or to bring about the sort of equality which is absolutely essential not only 
from the human point of view, but from the point of view of the country’s future strength 
and effectiveness in dealing with problems, pressures, threats and dangers. 


Shri Tridib Chaudhuri is a senior and respected member of this House, but I think he 
would have been more convincing when he spoke against democracy and people taking 
advantage of certain situations had he raised his voice all these years, when so much hatred 
and falsehood were being spread. A virulent campaign was mounted with tremendous 
pressure. What shouting there was! Again and again we are asked, what could a few people 
of the Opposition do when Congress has a massive majority? But they had made it difficult 


175 


eT Ne 


for any Member on this side to function, to reply even in a soft voice. Later, I must admit 
our*Members also took to shouting and it was not possible for-me to stop them. Their 
standard reply was: when the Opposition cannot be controlled, how can you tell only us 
to be quiet? I had no answer to that. So, this pressure was mounting. As I pointed out the 
other day, it takes a long time to construct, whether it is a building, whether it is a dam or 
a project, it takes a long time, it takes a great deal of money and resources and involves 
many people. But to destroy, what is needed? One person can throw a bomb. One person 
can set fire. So, this argument about relative members is irrelevant and un-convincing. All 
over the world, where the forces of reaction have been able to establish themselves, they 
have not been in the majority. It is a few who have been able, through noise, and support 
from outside, by creating a particular atmosphere to suppress the voice of the people. They 
have been able through rumour-mongering and whisper campaigns to create an atmosphere 
where the ordinary person is thoroughly confused and does not know what is happening. 
While he attempts to sort out his thoughts and to find the truth of the situation those other 
take advantage and establish themselves. This has happened time and again in different 
countries and different parts of the world. Did Shri Tridib Chaudhuri pause to wonder 
whether there was any truth in the wild allegations which were being bandied about and 
hurled across at us day in, day out ? 


I see in front of me the hon. Member, Shri Viswanathan. A short while before I came 
into the House I heard that after his speech in the House yesterday, some members of a 
political party—perhaps you can guess which one it 1s; assaulted him in the lobby. 
(Interruptions). | am not yielding. (/nterruptions). 


ek जर मै 2k 3k OK 2k 


I said: I was told, I was not a witness to the incident and, therefore, I do not wish to 
argue about it. The word used was ‘assaulted’. (Interruptions). Any Member who wishes 
to do so, can go to the hon. Speaker and speak to him later on. Threats are given quite 
publicly. Cuttings of what is said and written against many people including myself have 
been sent to me from Tamil Nadu. I am used to this and we have not complained. But 
when the falsehoods and threats created an atmosphere which finally led to murder most 
foul, even then most of the Opposition were content merely to say that this should not 
have been done. They did nothing to change the atmosphere of hatred which always breeds 
violence. 


me 2 और ah मं औ me 2K ak 


Shri Indrajit Gupta commented that there was no point in speaking if 1t would not be 
fully reported. I do not know whether the speech has been fully reportcd or not because I 
do not read these things in the newspapers. In Parliament do we speak for the benefit of 
hon. Members or do we speak for the public outside? 


ae मं: ak “sesh ae He Wk ak 


176 मर 


It is an odd way of looking at it.* We speak here to put our point of view before 
Parliament. 


Points were also made about monopolists and monopoly. It is true that we are thinking 
of changes in the industrial licensing policy, some have been made and these are precisely 
in order to encourage small and medium entrepreneurs and to prevent a few people from 
taking advantage even of the controls for their own businesses. Some controls are necessary. 
We do not think that everybody should be left free to do exactly as he likes in industry, in 
grabbing economic power. But we must guard against controls becoming self-defeating. 
Controls in themselves are not synonymous with socialism. We should not confuse the 
means for the ends. If we find that a particular policy is not yielding the results that we 
had hoped from it, we must modify it. And when hon. Members opposite spoke about our 
association with the monopolists I wondered if they considered the Jan Sangh and the 
Swatantra Party more radical just as China and Chile today are considered more democratic 
by some? 


Then comes the question of bonus. This is a controversial question. It is true, that 
workers in India may not get the sort of wages that are paid in other countries. But I do 
not know whether the wages of all industrial workers here are very much lower than in 
every country in the world. When a concern is losing how can it possibly get on its feet, if 
it is forced to pay a particular amount in bonus? My attention was drawn to this aspect 
the week after our decision on the 8 per cent bonus. I happened to go to one of our big 
public sector undertakings, where I met a delegation from one of the socialist countries; 
and the first thing they told me that they were astonished at this decision of ours. They 
could not see how we could hope to build up our industry, how we could put our public 
sector on a sound basis, if we continued with this policy. It is not only a question of industry. 
It is also a question of the workers themselves. An‘ increase in payment leads to greater 
inflation and an increase in the prices of other goods. They are not merely industrial 
workers; they are also a part of this country; they have to meet the needs of their families— 
then that increase in bonus does not help them at all. That is why we took the decision. I 
was a party to the earlier decision. I am not blaming anybody. If I find any decision is 
wrong, then it is our duty-even if we displease people—to set that wrong right. But we 
sincerely hope that as our industrial base strengthens and as our economy is on a sounder 
basis, it will be possible for us to do more for our workers. 


Similarly, I share the concern or all hon. Members of both sides of the House at the 
lay-offs and the retrenchment and so on which have been taking place. The Minister, my 
colleague, announced that a legislation would be brought soon. I am told that the apex 
body which was set up, has been able to solve some questions. (Interruptions). 


ae afc मं मंध्कं मं ae मै: गुर 


* Replying to Shri Indrajit Gupta’s remark, “Both. We are sent here by the people”. 


177 


Then we must look at it again and see that the employers are not helped in this manner 
‘and that the workers do not suffer.* There are no two opinions in the matter. 


I should like to take this opportunity of expressing my congratulations to industrial 
workers. They have shown great discipline and enthusiasm. The figures show improved 
working in almost all sectors of industry. Recently when I was in Visakhapatnam I found 
that quantum of work done by the dock workers in the last few months had increased 
considerably. So, I would like to express my gratitude to them, and also to the armed forces 
which have shown courage and determination in war and disciplined work in peace. They 
are to be congratulated on their steadfastness. 


Much has been said about the Press. I do not want to dilate on that matter. I have spoken 
on many occasions. I am not against the Press, Indian or foreign. What I am against 15 
falsehood and hypocrisy. What has been the record of some newspapers ? If I can take the 
House back, long years ago when I was a girl, it was more important for a pressman to 
secure a scoop and to get it printed in his paper than to save the life of the Lindbergh 
baby. We find this attitude increasing not only with regard to Indian affairs, but affairs 
anywhere, that more and more people want to go for something that is sensational, 
something that will hit the headlines, rather than constructive, solid work. It does not 
perhaps matter in an advanced and affluent society, but it does matter in a country which 
is trying to build itself up in the face of tremendous odds and difficulties. It does matter if 
you are spreading what I was told by a British Lord who visited us, “alarm and 
' despondency’”, against which there was a law in England during or immediately after the 
last World War. It is a serious matter for any country which confronted with special 
difficulties, as our country undoubtedly was. We all know the attitude taken by the foreign 
press towards events in India, towards drought, the refugee situation, the Bangladesh war 
or any other internal or international problem. 


Speaking of the emergency some hon. Member alleged that we have opened the flood- 
gates which could be used by despotic persons. Was it the same thing said about our atomic 
experiment ? Does anybody seriously believe that those who do not believe in democracy, 
those who do believe in the use of atomic power for military purposes, were waiting for 
India or the Congress to do anything ? Would they and have they not, 1n their countries, 
taken whatever steps they wanted to take regardless of foreign opinion ? We have tried to 
take certain steps, which may not be ideal, in order to prevent something worse happening 
to the country, in order to prevent democracy being swept off entirely. Certain curbs have 
been put, nobody denies that. Nobody says that it is good to do so. At the same time, as 
many Members mentioned there has to be a feeling of responsibility, some thought of duties 
along with rights. Unfortunately, we were going further and further away from such a 
concept, and this had to be reinstated. 


The Foreign Minister spoke at length on the international situation. I need not go over 
the same ground. As our strength increases there is an effort to decry India. This is no 


* Replying to Shri S.M. Banerjee’s observations, ‘““‘The employers do not care for the apex body. They care two hoots 
for the recommendations of the apex body”. 


178 मर 


time for us to slacken our vigilance. We have believed and we do believe in co-existence. 
What does that mean ? It means that we agree to get along with countries whose systems 
or methods we may not entirely approve of. 


There are countries with whose policies we do not agree. But no country can be pushed 
off this world on to another planet. Unfortunately there is a new theory (I am not quite 
sure how to pronounce it) the “Triage Doctrine’ which absolves affluent countries from 
the bother of helping very poor countries, which are to be left to fend for themselves. Where 
will they go ? Can they be moved from their geographical position on earth ? If poverty 
increases or disease spreads, can other countries be immune ? These are far deeper 
questions. I am not going into them here. 


I snould like to emphasize our desire and genuine and persistent effort for friendship 
and co-operation with all countries, near and far. We may not always agree with America, 
but we know that it 1s dynamic nation; it has attracted talent from all over the world 
including India; the people are dynamic and are constantly giving birth to new and 
stimulating ideas on education, the arts, science and technology. I should like to give them 
my congratulations on their bicentennial. 


I forgot to mention one point. I think it was hon. Member Shri Manoharan, who referred 
to Hindi. The question has been debated here many times. I repeat my assurance that there 
is no desire or attempt to force Hindi on those who do not want it. But we do feel that it 
could be worth while for all Indians to have at least a working or an understanding 
knowledge of any one Indian language so that we do not have to converse with one another 
in English. You and I happen to speak English. Perhaps those on the other side have greater 
knowledge of it than we have. But, as a whole, those who know English are such a minute 
minority in the country that it cuts us off from the vast majority of our masses. Therefore, 
if all over India there is an understanding it need not be a perfect understanding of Hindi- 
which does not obstruct the development of Bengali, Assamese, Tamil, Telugu or Kannad 
or any other Indian language, it should be welcomed. We are aware that none of these 
languages is a dialect; they are all ancient languages with their own history and beautiful 
old literature. We are doing everything possible to encourage these and help them to grow. 
But no one language need impinge or tread on the toes of others and certainly we do not 
want Hindi to do so. 


Sometimes a group of people are over-enthusiastic on both sides. The Hindi enthusiast 
try to spread the use of Hindi and some hon. friends outside are over- enthusiastic in 
decrying Hindi, saying that only their language should be encouraged. 


Yesterday I replied to Shri Patel when he spoke about some draft of Constitutional 
changes being circulated. A number of people, known and unknown, legal luminaries as 
well as others, have sent me notes, suggestions, letters, telegrams, all kinds of things, and 
one or more of these may be in circulation, I do not know. No such document has been 
circulated by me or by the Government or Congress Party, so far as I know. But I have 
said that whatever suggestions come should be considered in depth. We do not believe in 
change for the sake of change. On the other hand if change is necessary, we should not 


179 


hesitate to bring it about. But if there is a change, it should be in the direction of justice 
and fair play to those vast number who are being denied their due. 


This change should not be for the sake of any party or personal power. We must be 
concemed with human life and welfare which are as important as human liberty. 


Some hon. Members have spoken about elections. Elections are certainly not being 
given up. But elections are not the be-all and the end-all of democracy, or of life. We do 
look beyond. The good of the country, its unity and capacity to defend itself against 
aggression or oppression, its ability to produce more and distribute production more fairly, 
all these are aspects which cannot be neglected and we cannot allow a situation to develop 
where these aspects are jeopardised merely for the sake of an election or proving to the 
world how democratic we are. 


There was also mention of a round-table dialogue. I spoke of this yesterday. My attitude 
has never been one of rigidity. In one of the papers I saw a headline suggesting that “I 
rule out dialogue” I am not in the habit of categorically ruling out any proposition except 
when it concems injustice or matters which go against the interest of our people or the 
strength of our country. On those matters I must say, I am and always will remain firm. 
But on questions of dialogue or talking with the Opposition my attitude has not been 
inflexible. On the contrary, I have always tried to find ways of conciliation. I am afraid, 
this effort of mine has led us into trouble. When we have gone out of our way to be tolerant 
and have made friendly gestures, the Opposition has taken it for a show of weakness and 
they have chosen that moment to threaten and exert greater pressure to exact some more 
concession out of us. Can you shake hands with one hand ? It needs two hands. We have 
always shown our willingness. It is for the Opposition to give up the path of obstruction 
and violence and to create conditions for a dialogue. 


What is the objection ? For the poor people of the country, the goal is to have more; 
for our workers, it is to have better conditions; for our farmers, to have strength to face 
the vagaries of weather; for our city people, better amenities, better transport and so on. 
What of us who are supposed to represent all sections of the people? Can the end be any 
one or several of these things ? Is our task not of a far greater magnitude, of vaster 
proportions? I spoke earlier of duties. This is the time when we must consider what are 
our duties and obligations, not only to Parliament but to the country as a whole. Is it not 
our duty to see that peaceful conditions exist ? While it is the duty of the Government and 
the ruling party to allow freedom of expression and association and to allow the legitimate 
functioning of the Opposition, it is equally the duty of the Opposition to allow the legitimate 
functioning of the Government. But this functioning of the Government and of some 
Assemblies was being hampered long before these Ordinances came into force. Along with 
rights we have to think equally about our obligations, our responsibilities and our duties. 


Democracy cannot be one-sided. It can work only if all sections subscribe to its 
conditions and are willing to curb their liberty to the extent that it does not tread on the 
liberty of others. Only then can democracy survive and function. It is our responsibility to 
restore hope and confidence. This is what we have tried to du and this is what I meant, 


180 2 


when I earlier spoke about the spread of alarm and despondency. I was concerned at the 
danger to the country and not at threats to a Party or one or more individuals. There was a 
deliberate effort to spread despair amongst the people, to.spread a feeling of hopelessness 
by proclaiming that nothing has been done, nothing is being done and nothing can be done. 
This affected our young people, our farmers and others. Therefore, each group thought 
that it should try to get what it could for itself. If you believe that the country has no future, 
how can you work for a future ? You will then say ‘let us grab what we can while we 
may’. It is only when we have hope and confidence for a bright future that we can say ‘let 
me sacrifice now because the future is on the horizon’. 


Bharat Mata is bent by the heavy burdens of colonialism, of imperialism of feudalism. 
She is suffering visibly not only from the ills of poverty, deprivation and disease but also 
from mental complexes and attitudes bred by superstition and out-dated habits, by 
chauvinistic thinking, by narrowness-of religion, caste, creed, language or province—by 
customs which weigh heavily on the poor. It is our duty today to enable Bharat Mata to 
become young again, to hold herself erect and her head high—and in this, we would certainly 
like the help and co-operation of all those Members of the Opposition who believe in the 
tasks we have set ourselves and who feel that a new way of co-operation can be found. 


Sir, I commend this motion to the House. 


181 


Nation-Building—New Directions* 


Mr. Speaker, Sir, before I begin my reply, may I say a word to the hon. Member 
opposite who raised a question regarding the Republic Day Parade ? I want to inform him 
that the programme for the Parade, the items and the details were decided long before our 
Government came in. We did not interfere with it.in any way. In fact, I did not know what 
it was till we saw the Parade. Anyhow, the part of the NCC does not come before the 
Government. But I agree with him that such details should be looked into. I hope he and 
all other hon. Members will join me in congratulating our Defence Services on the 
excellence of the Parade and the Retreat. All our foreign visitors and others were most 
impressed. 


Mr. Speaker, Sir, I have tned to be present during the debate on the President’s Address, 
and specially during the speeches of the hon. Members of the Opposition; but certain 
unavoidable engagements have prevented me from listening to them all. For this I am sorry, 
but I do get the main points put before me day by day. 


I mean no disrespect when I say that the debate, from the Opposition side, lacked any 
heart or conviction. Most of the arguments made were feeble. Many hon. Members are 
still continuing go flog the dead horse of Emergency. They are still to find their way out 
of the trauma of the past. 1975 and 1977 now belong to history. We have entered 1980, a 
new decade which has started with challenges of gigantic proportions, internally in the 
shape of economic and social problems, and in international affairs, the threat to non- 
alignment and to our very security. The President’s Address was written when the 
Government was about 4 days’ old. Therefore, it is not very realistic of hon. Members to 
expect that we would, at the time, be able to give details of how we are going to tackle 
these various problems. It was physically impossible to get any precise view of the state 
of the nation at that time. 


Anyone who tries to belittle the achievements of the Congress rule during these 
30 years can do so only by shutting his eyes to reality. In 1947, we were a country newly 
emerging into Independence after a long period of colonial rule. We had a political structure 
which was fragmented and an economy which was, in many ways, primitive. Different 
parts of the country were existing in different countries. hon. Members will perhaps 
remember-—and specially those from Bengal—of one of the last articles written by Gurudev 


* Replying to the debate on the Motion of Thanks on the President’s Address, LS. Deb., 30 January, 1980, 
cc. 136-62. 


182 


Tagore. He said : “I know the British will leave India. The question before us is, in what 
condition will they leave the country”. And we are all aware of that condition. 


We laboured hard for 30 years to build a nation that was politically viable and 
economically sound. We achieved a strong political unity in spite of the immensity and 
diversity of our people. We developed democratic traditions that survived through years 
of political strife. From a subject state, we grew to a free nation whose voice was listened 
to with respect in the councils of the world. 


The Opposition has chosen to rake up the past. I have preferred to look to the future, 
but, because they have referred to certain things, they have left no option for me but to 
deal with some of the issues with which they seem obsessed. Firstly, I would like very 
briefly to deal with the question of persecution. What did the Janata Party-in the Janata 
Party, I include both, the Janata and the Lok Dal which is Janata (S)—do after the elections? 
My party had offered full co-operation in any nation building activity, in any programme 
for the welfare of the people. In fact, my hon. friend opposite and former colleague will 
forgive me, one of the reasons for our quarrel was that we felt that he was bending over 
backward to support the then Ruling Party. 


मं: ae मं HO fete ak 


That was my view, Chavanji. *That is why, I said, we differed. But what was the 
response of the Janata Party ? 


Instead of allowing my party to function as an Opposition, a campaign of repression 
was unleashed against me, my family and my associates. 


There were a series of politically motivated commissions set up. Now how many were 
there, I think... 


मंध्ज॑ मं 404K ae कर अर 


Apart from commissions, there were other enquiry authorities. We are told by the Home 
Ministry that there were 34 commissions. Tailored evidence was produced before them. 
The atmosphere in the proceedings, as I know from personal atmosphere reminded one of 
Medieval Britain when malicious pleasure was derived in harassing the accused and also 
the days of MaCarthyism in the USA when public hysteria was whipped up and distortion, 
concoction and intimidation was practised on a large scale through government controlled 
media. Heads of commissions, judges and others were having meetings with the Prime 
Minister and the Home Minister. Dozens of cases were started against my son. Officials 
close to me were harassed and intimidated; and not only they-if they were guilty, well 
there is some excuse—but their relatives, their ald parents, their sisters who had not very 
close connections with them over the years, all of them were bounded and persecuted. 
Indiscriminate searches at their premises were made. Large scale sealing of bank lockers, 
freezing of bank accounts of relatives, impounding of passports, income tax cases of 


* Responding to Shri Yeshwantrao Chavan’s remark, “Question!” 


183 


relatives; officers were subjected to investigation by special courts. Even there was a query; 

-parents were asked to explain about expenditure which was incurred before 1947! I was 
asked hew I got a certain cheque from some university in 1960. Arrests of former Ministers 
such as Shri Gokhale, Prof. Chattopadhya, Shri Bansi Lal, Shri Malaviya, Shri P.C. Sethi 
and others, top businessmen were also not spared arrest. I am going through it very briefly. 
If I went into details, we could tell you some harrowing tales. 


During the period from the end of March 1977 to the middle of January 1980, ten CBI 
officers visited foreign countries in connection with the investigation of eight CBI cases. 
They visited the United Kindgom, Switzerland (Berne & Geneva), Stockholm, Frankfurt, 
Bonn, New York, Washington, Paris, Singapore, Bangkok, Tokyo and Osaka. It was said 
the main purpose of these visits was to obtain evidence against me, my family and my 
Close associates. But you all know what was the outcome. I have no doubt that it gave an 
opportunity of combining business with pleasure, But apart from this, the attitude! Our 
ambassadors were told immediately after the government came into power to burn any 
pictures or any writings by me or my father Jawaharlal Nehru... 


मं a मै aK 2 मर eK अष 


I can understand the hon. Member’s embarrassment* . An ambassador himself told 
me that he got these instructions. 


ae a a ae aha ae He a 


I do not know who gave the erder**. I am only repeating what I was told. I am not 
interested in who issued those orders. I was told this by an ambassador and I have no reason 
to disbelieve him. I can also share this information that he is not a member of the Congress 
Party. 


aR मं कै oh ok WK मर 


His reply was that he would not burn them; if he was not allowed to keep them, he 
said he would shut them up in a cupboard, and he did lock them up 1n a cupboard. 


me He मर के मंप मे a मं 


This was only in external affairs-the way the pictures were torn, trampled upon. One 
Air Force officer told me that right in the beginning, he had a picture of my father, me 
and himself. He was told—I do not know at what level-by somebody who visited the office 
to remove it. He said : it is entirely a personal matter. I am not keeping it as a political 
gesture, it is a personal memento. Very soon after he was transferred, whether the transfer 
was connected with it or not, I do not know, but he felt, in his mind that it was connected. 
It is not just one case. There are thousands of cases like this, not just one. Every effort 


* Replying to Shri Atal Bihari Vajpayee who said, “I challenge that statement. It is not true”. 
** Replying to Shri Atal Bihari Vajpayee who inter alia wanted to know from whom the ambassador had got the 
instructions; and to Shri Ravindra Varma who inter alia said that the order be placed on the Table of the House. 


184 : 


was made to humiliate me in every possible way. Foreign ambassadors have told me. I 
am not going to reveal their names, Mr. Vajpayee. It is only fair that the House should 
know. They are respectable people of high position in their countries. They have told me 
that they were hauled up for visiting me. Many of those who came to see me, came in 
taxies or walking. So, this was the atmosphere created. Anybody who visited me, if they 
had anything to do with the Government, whether they were in University or in any 
department which remotely had some Government help, they were hauled up. 


7K 2 मं ae oe a ae मंध a 


Well they were called and asked, told whether they wanted government support to 
continue. * 


He kc ak 2k te aK अर जंर ak 


Thank you very much indeed. **That is exactly what I am saying. These were carried 
out by those people whose main slogan was their belief in democracy and in the freedom 
of the individual. We did not bring emergency through the back door. We brought it openly. 
We did not arrest anybody from the back door. Everybody knew that these people were 
being arrested. As I said, if any wrong things were done... (Interruptions) 


Please keep quiet because I am going to take a long time. I do not mind if you want to 
sit on. I have plenty to say. The more quietly you listen, the sooner it will be over. I am 
not going to cut out anything because of your shouting, I am not going to sit down because 
of your shouting, let this be very clear. (Interruptions) 


I have heard that some of the films taken when I visited the forward areas were also 
destroyed by the Information Ministry. So far as I know, the hon. Minister at that time 
acknowledged that they were lost. 


The hand of the R.S.S. was clearly visible in the administration, the manner in which 
the hon. Member here has spoken about riots and various other incidents that took place, 
the manner in which the RSS infiltrated into various strategic positions, in education, in 
administration, in the police force and various other areas. 


Was not my expulsion from Parliament, immediately after winning election was an 
insult to the people of Chikmagalur ? And to the democratic process itself. Was it not 
bulldozing by the majority ? 


We have said that we do not want to be vindictive. But the facts must come out. 


An effort was made to distort even the previous history, not to talk of recent history. 
We know the hon. Members from the Jan Sangh. 


ak ah a ak ok मर मर teak 


* Responding to Shri Indrajit Gupta’s question : “What does hauled up mean a 
** Replying to Prof. Madhu Dandavate’s remark, “You are describing emergency conditions." 


185 


I think the gentleman who has been busy trying to prove for some years as to how the 
"Taj Mahal was a Hindu temple belongs to Shri Vajpayee’s party*. This may be an extreme 
case. But there are many things in between which are equally dangerous to the survival of 
the Indian tradition, which is a tradition of absorbing, of synthesis and of great tolerance, 
it does not believe in falsehood or in rubbing out something which some do not happen to 
approve of because it does not suit their picture of India or what they want to do. 


Now, the neglect of fundamental development by the Janata Government was matched 
by equal irresponsibility in the day-to-day management of the affairs of the country—political 
and economic. 


Members, have spoken about the sharp deterioration in the law and order situation 
and the sense of insecurity, particularly among the weaker sections. 


me oe के 3K A a ae aK at 


Specially of women; I have mentioned all this in my speeches outside. 


Some have said that they have continued. Of course, they have continued. Can we 
change it suddenly ? But certainly I think that already there is a slight change. 


With regard to communal clashes, during the last three years the minorities have 
suffered because of the increase in communal incidents. In 1975, there were 962 people 
injured and 33 killed. In 1976, there were 794 injured and 39 killed. The very next year— 
1977-16 number of people injured goes up to 1,119. In 1978, the number of injured people 
were 1,853. In 1979, the number of injured was 2,346. The number of dead was 260. 


Casteism and caste feeling have been the features of Indian society for centuries. At 
the beginning of the post-independence period, there seemed to be a lessening of aggressive 
caste feeling, but with the coming in of democracy, it came up again because people looked 
to caste support. However as soon as they realised that this support was not enough to 
balance the hopes of other castes, again we found a lessening of caste dependence. During 
the Janata and Lok Dal rule, not only did we find caste in our political life and in our 
public life, but casteism and communalism were injected into our institutions of higher 
learning. Our civil services and even such innocent-looking programmes like adult 
education were vitiated. Even in the Lok Sabha elections, the effort was to fight on the 
basis of casteism and communalism in the vain hope of winning elections by misleading 
the people. I think this election has proved that our people are much more broad-minded 
with an overall national outlook than many of our friends opposite would like them to be. 


Crime against scheduled castes between 1975 and 1979-the number of cases reported 
in 1975 was 7,781. I am skipping the middle portion. In 1978, the number was 15,059. In 
1979, upto September, the number was 10492. Crime in Delhi went up again from 23,105 
in 1976 to almost the same figure in the first half of 1979-21,307. Figures are sometime 
boring but since the others have quoted some, I think I am going to bore you with them. 


* Responding to Shri Atal Bihari Vajpayee’s observation, ‘We have nothing to do with the Jan Sangh.” 


186 


The hon. Member, Chaudhuri Charan Singh, said something about foodgrain production. 
In 1950-51, the production was 52.58 million tonnes. In 1973-74, it went upto 104.67 and 
in 1975-76 it went up to 121.3. We certainly did import foodgrains because we were 
determined that our people should not starve. 


ae ak मर a मंद मर ae मर मे 


Production did go up. *We are not belittling that. But you had excellent rains whereas 
in the other periods, we had faced serious droughts. You had years of very good rainfall. 
What is the result this year ? This year, food is not available for the drought-affected area, 
although when we left a surplus, we were then. told that there was enough for 2 consecutive 
years of drought and there would be no difficulty in the country. 


Coming to irrigation, we started off with a mere 22.6 million hectares of utilised 
irrigation potential in 1951. By 1977-78, there was an increase of 26 million hectares. 
I have not got the middle figure. But the figure for 1973-74 was 42 million hectares. There 
was an increase during the Janata rule, but I think hon. Members will realise that this is 
the result of the investments in the years before 1977 on irrigation projects. May I ask, 
how many new irrigation projects were put up and would they yield results immediately 
even if you had begun them up in 1977 ? At least in one place a bridge that was built by 
us was listed as an achievement of the Janata government because it had not been formally 
inaugurated during the Congress regime. | 


About industrial production, we built the sinews of industrial strength through the 
development of the core sectors of coal, stee] and oil and the expansion of the transport 
infrastructure and induction and generation of a wide range of technologies. The index of 
industrial production in 1951 was 100. In 1977 it has gone up to 389.2. Similarly, coal 
production in million tonnes: In 1973-74 it was 81.8, in 1976-77, it was 100.8, in 1979 up 
to November, it was about 65 million tons. Saleable steel in million tonnes: 4.47 in 1973- 
74, 7.41 in 1976-77, and the provisional figure for 1977-78 1s 5.08. Railways: 1973-74 it 
was 162.1 million tonnes. Originating net tonne kilometres: 1,09,391. 


In 1976-77 it goes up from 162 to 212. In 1977-78 it comes down to 210 and in 1978- 
79 it comes down to 199. In the first 8 months of 1978, 19 million mandays were lost and 
in the corresponding period of 1979, about 30 million mandays were lost due to industrial 


disputes. 

Chaudhury Sahib made a statement about India going down from 1966 in the list of 
countries. I am told that this is because the number of countries has increased and looked 
at it from that angle, the position in 1976 had considerably improved compared to that in 
1973. 


Export trade: From 1974-75 to 1976-77, the average annual rate of growth was 26.8 
per cent, from 1977-78 to 1979-80, it was 6.2 per cent. 


* Responding to Prof. Madhu Dandavate’s remark, “During Janata rule it went up to 126.5 million tonnes.” 


187 


- The Janata party increased our import bill : In 1973-74 imports were Rs. 2,955.4 crores; 

in 1977-78 they rose to Rs. 6,025 crores. This was partly due to the need to go in for heavy 
imports of items such as steel, cement, coal and aluminium to meet shortages in domestic 
production which had been allowed to develop due to inefficient utilisation of existing 
capacity. 


That is how there is a rapid widening of our adverse balance of trade and we are ill- 
equipped today to pay for the petroleum and other costly imports which we desperately 
need from abroad. 


It is not true that the large buffer stock of foodgrains was built up with imports of 
food. We did import food when it was necessary, but gradually we had built up stocks to 
make us self-sufficient in foodgrains, that is how, the Janata Party Government was able 
to export some soon after coming into power. 


In March, 1977, the national buffer stock was 18 million tonnes. This was the result 
of a massive domestic procurement which itself was a consequence of the steps taken by 
the Government in my tume to make Indian agriculture more productive. 


From 1966-67 to the period when my Government laid down office in 1977, the national 
income at constant prices increased from Rs. 27,298 crores to Rs. 40,534 crores, yielding 
an annual compound rate of 4.03 per cent. In 1978-79 the growth rate was 4.06 per cent 
which is similar to the growth of ten years. A long-term growth rate of 4.03 per cent in 
ten years with fluctuations in agricultural production is much more difficult to achieve 
than 4.6 per cent in a year of good monsoon. 


Export of engineering goods increased from Rs. 356.6 crores in 1974-75 to Rs. 566 
crores in 1976-77. 


Many Members have expressed their concern over the problems of agriculture. The 
hon. House knows how very anxious we ourselves are. Choudhury Sahib has been pleased 
to state in his election speeches that I cannot tell the difference between a cow and a buffalo! 
Hon. Members can themselves judge the seriousness of such remarks. I am not called upon 
to be a judge at either cattle shows or buffalo shows, but I was concerned during my years 
in office to see that our farmers get remunerative prices. Their complaint was that the 
experts who sit in the Agricultural Prices Commission know nothing 20०० the difficulties 
at the field level and that our Government always accepted their opinion. Well we went 
into this in great detail, and we had many discussions with the hon. Members, and on the 
whole we tried to give farmers a fair deal. But whatever price was agreed to was regarded 
by us as a support price. But what happened in the last two years ? The peasants did not 
get a proper price for sugarcane, or for other crops. When I went to the Faridkot 
constituency—I do not see the hon. Member here—from a distance I thought snow had fallen 
seeing the piles and piles of white Narma cotton. Nobody was buying it. In U.P. I was 
told—I have not ascertained this from Government sources-it is what the farmers told me 
before the election and during the campaign, that they were not able to get the price declared 
by the Government. It was when most of them had sold their produce at a lower price, 
almost at distress rates, that the Government came forward and announced the higher price. 


188 


What happens ? Those farmers who had already sold their stock could not get that price. 
So, that money would go.... 


ae aie a a ak af ae ak कु 


The farmers told me that this did not happen before.* Why should they come, 
specifically to tell me if this was an earlier experience ? 


he मै ee ak eta 


Regarding many other matters, people have not hesitated to state: “This is our problem, 
it is a long-existing problem, please look into it’, but this time they did not say so and 
because of their experience with sugarcane, people today are not in a mood to plant 
sugarcane, and we are threatened with a shortage of sugar in the coming season. This sort 
of thing has not happened before. Farmers were planting more and more because they were 
getting a proper price. When you do not get remunerative price, you are bound to feel that 
since it is not a paying crop why should I depend on it ? This is just what I am saying, 
Mr. Gupta. What I am trying to put across is, had this happened in the previous years at 
the same level, those farmers would have been discouraged than also from planting those 
particular crops. But they were not discouraged, they planted more of sugarcane, more of 
everything. Now for the first time they are saying that since this is not a paying crop, they 
will not plant sugarcane. This is the fact. 


मे मैप ok 2 KC ae मद अर 


We do not want our farmers to suffer. I do admit that these policies have to be planned 
in a far more long-term perspective. We tend to take decision in a somewhat ad hoc manner, 
dealing with immediate problems. If 1 go wrong somewhere, I have no hesitation in 
admitting it. Somehow we were always caught in last moment decisions and this caused 
some problems. Now we must attempt a long term perspective. My colleague, The Minister 
for Agriculture, has already dealt with the measures which we propose to take to alleviate 
the sufferings of our people in the drought affected areas. I should like to mention 
particularly that we shall arrange for close monitoring of the drought situation and take an 
active interest in the proper implementation of the food for work programmes. The 
protection of cattle will also receive greater attention. . 


Several hon. Members have spoken about unemployment. It is indeed a matter of grave 
concern and it is at the root of many other problems which arise. Whether it be a law and 
order problem or even, I would say, the very serious situation in our North Eastern region. 
We can certainly have short-term measures. But basically, employment can be created when 
the economic problems are solved and not just by having deadlines. Many hon. Members 
on this side have spoken about the rolling Plan and how the whole process.... 


we kc मे ak oe मे मर कप मं 


* Replying to Shri Chandrajeet Yadav’s observation, “Tt has been a regular feature for the last so many vears.” 


189 


All those things will come up later.* I am not in a position to say anything concrete 
beaause we have to know what exactly it involves. There is no point in my announcing 
that I will do something and find later that I cannot do it: 


The numbers in India are so vast that many programmes which are most urgent and 
necessary are beyond our capacity, especially at this moment when the economy is in a 
bad way. But we will certainly look into the problem in depth and give it our urgent 
attention. 


We have always regarded planning as a tool for economic and social change. During 
the entire period of the Janata and Lok Dal rule, the Five Year Plan could not be finalised 
even by the Central Government, let alone having consultations with the States. I am 
astomished that any Indian should ignore all these achievements in agriculture and industry, 
which have taken place. As I have said in my speeches, I am not responsible for them, it 
is the Indian people through their labour and sacrifice, the farmer has increased his 
production the industrial worker also through his own work. I am not going to belittle their 
contribution because that is the main thing. But how were they able to do so ? Because 
we gave them a policy. Because we gave a definite direction. The same is the case with 
our young scientists and technologists. Today, India has the third largest reservoir of 
engineering skills in the whole world and one has only to look around us and compare 
our political and economic situation with those of the countries which have acquired 
freedom in the postwar period, to judge our record in a proper perspective. Those who try 
to decry our performance, show an utter lack of national pride and faith in our people. 


I have mentioned drought relief. Just today, I had a very large contingent from Madhya 
Pradesh. Also MPs from Madhya Pradesh, from Rajasthan, from Uttar Pradesh, from Bihar 
and other States which have been suffering from drought, who came to see me regarding 
the inadequacy of relief work and the low wages which are being given to them. They 
have repeatedly complained about the lack of availability of various essential articles and 
that recovery of loans was being done even when farmers were in such deep distress. 


There are two matters which have nothing to do with drought but which I must mention 
here since my attention was drawn to them by the large crowd that came from Madhya 
Pradesh; they were also mentioned by MPs from Rajasthan and yesterday my hon. fnend 
and colleague, Shri Kamalapati Tripathi also told me that this was happening in U.P. also. 
The State Governments in these places have begun a vigorous programme of sterilisation 
and demolition and they are propagating that “We told you, when the Indira Gandhi 
Government comes back, sterilisation will be renewed. These are instructions received from 
the Centre.” 


Hee जेर eK के We ae afc 


I should like to tell this honourable House that no such instructions have gone from 
the Centre. This is typical of the manner in which they were previously spreading falsehood 
and now also they continue to do so. 


* Replying to Shri Samar Mukherjee’s remark, “What about unemployment relief?” 


190 ‘ 


AN नी 


My hon. friend has raised the question of stoppage of relief work. During the flood 
situation in Delhi-I forget whether it was 1977 or 1978-—when I visited the affected areas, 
we found that those areas which had voted for our members to the Corporation and the 
Metropolitan Council, were denied their rations. It was only when we made a big noise 
that the rations were resumed. I am not going into all thise things. It just shows their attitude. 


I am not mentioning the names of all the Members who have spoken. But I should 
like to express my appreciation of the note of sobriety which Shri Jagjivan Ram brought 
to the whole debate. He referred to the need for radical changes in the system for the 
abolition of poverty and the solution of our economic problems. I wish he had spelt out 
his ideas and told us what radical steps he had in mind consistent with the sort of democracy 
that we have ॥ India. 


Another friend from the Marxist party opposite underlined the need for fundamental 
changes in the system. He cited the example of China. It is interesting to see how 
international politics move. During the war in Vietnam when we were supporting the 
Vietnamese, we were consistently told by the United States and other Western authorities 
that they were fighting in Vietnam only to protect us from China, that the great threat to 
India was China and, therefore, it was very wrong of us to support Vietnam since the 
Chinese were also helping the Vietnamese against U.S.A. We were consistent in our policy 
towards China. In spite of the fact that we had suffered aggression—at that time not only 
were there no relations, there was hostility-we continued to support China’s entry into the 
United Nations for the very simple reason that a large nation whose population is 1/6th of 
the world cannot be left out of any international decision. Whether we like their viewpoint 
or not, is an entirely different matter. We were not at all opportunistic; we were consistent 
in our policy. 


ak ak ok OK 22 


I am just telling you the whole story.* (Jnterruptions). I shall come to that aspect. 


I wanted to give the whole picture because suddenly, almost overnight, we found that 
China was said to be a great friend and we had to be protected from the Soviet Union and 
Vietnam ! It is a little difficult for me, a simple person, to understand such things ! 
(Interruptions. ) 


I am coming to the economic part. 


ae मंद मर 4a a oh मर 


With all due respect ...... (Interruptions). 100 not know why the hon. Members opposite 
should be so sensitive. I have not said a word about his party: I am trying to give the 
background of a particular situation. 


Now let us come to the socialist system. From violent hostility the western world and 
some friends from the Jan Sangh and others sitting opposite switched over to a feeling of 


* Replying to Shri Samar Mukherjee's remarks, “I spoke about the economic system”. 


191 


euphoria, saying that everything was perfect in China—unemployment has been wiped out, 
everybody had food and everything was perfect. Not long ‘afterwards we read of 
unemployment riots in some cities—in Shanghai and other cities. Then we read that this 
country, which was supposed to have attained high industrial development, is now totally 
dependent on western help for its industrial development. Furthermore they are partners 
with the USA-I do not know, if the USA is a socialist country! Does the hon. Member 
want us to go back to that position ? Perhaps we have moved slowly. We have not been 
able to eradicate poverty—nor did we ever say it could be eradicated so soon....(/nterruption) 


ae ae मे ak 2 ak ae a ak 


The hon. Member* may have greater inner information than I have but, so for as I 
understand the situation, the Chinese have not been able to make much industrial 
development. They have got a number of atomic bombs, but their industrial base is not a 
strong one and the various experiments they carried out with regard to small scale 
production of steel etc. are now regarded to have been not as successful as they were 
thought to be at that ume. 


me ज मर मै I भर ae a 3 


Furthermore, those other Members of the Opposition who are now so loud in their 
condemnation-I am going to talk about this later, so don’t ask questions about it—of Soviet 
troops in Afghanistan had not a word to say when Chinese troops entered Vietnam. 


Now, Sir, even in the very short time that we have been in office, there has already 
been a marked change in the perceptions of foreign countries of our willingness and ability 
to play a useful and constructive role in international affairs. 


In recent months the world has moved dangerously closer to thermonuclear 
confrontation among the big Powers. The atmosphere of the cold war has been revised 
with all its negative consequences. We hear even quite responsible people being carried 
away by emotion and indulging ॥ talks of mobilisation for war, limited nuclear war, flexible 
response, and so on. 


We must realise that, in this armed to-the-teeth world, the slightest miscalculation may 
end in an unprecedented catastrophe for the entire human race. Therefore, in what we say 
or do, we must take into account all the factors and in our own humble way try to defuse 
the crisis. 


We are convinced that, only in an atmosphere of universal peace, can the resources of 
the world, both financial and technological, be available for the mutual benefit of humanity. 
Therefore, we are anxious that the present drift towards a hot war should be stopped by 
the combined efforts of all right-thinking people in the world. 


* Shri Samar Mukherjee. 


192 


Hon. Members are rightly concerned about developments in Afghanistan and the 
decision of the United States, China and some other countries to rush arms into Pakistan. 
I should like hon. Members to bear with me because once again I should like to give the 
background of the situation. I want to draw the attention of the House to the sequence of 
developments in Afghanistan. It is a strategically located country. Some years ago—we all 
know what happened when we were not free; I am not going into that period-the monarchy 
was overthrown and Afghanistan became a Republic. President Daud took over power. In 
April, 1978, another revolution took place and President Tarakki came at the helm of affairs. 
In November last, he was overthrown by Mr. Amin. Again in December last, President 
Amin was overthrown, and now President Karmal is the Head of the Government. 


To my hon. friend from the Muslim League, I would say-again I cannot vouch for this 
but we have been told—that it was in the time of Amin himself that help was asked for 
from Soviet troops...... 


मर a ak nk ae 2k a a भर 


There have been problems between Afghanistan and Pakistan. It was a legacy of the 
colonia! domination of this sub-continent. What happened in Afghanistan was an internal 
matter of that country. For the past two years, the Afghan Republic has faced numerous 
internal and external problems. There have been reports of armed attacks from bases located 
outside the country. We are told that the Government of Afghanistan invoked the provisions 
of the Treaty it signed with the Soviet Union and asked for military help to meet the threat 
to the Republic. Whether the request for military assistance was right or not, whether the 
Soviet Union should have rushed military aid or not, is a matter on which there 1s division 
of opinion among the powers of the world. Each one is looking at the problem not at all 
from the point of view of the people of Afghanistan, but from geo-political and strategic 
considerations. This will further complicate problems without solving anything. I have 
stated our own view, which is that we do not approve of foreign presence or intervention 
anywhere in the world. However, we do not believe in a one-sided condemnation. We have 
been watching with concern the build-up in the Indian Ocean and some other countries, 
which is now being stepped up even further with Pakistan becoming one of the important 
bases for this. 


It is necessary to reaffirm our commitment to non-alignment and to emphasize the 
independence of our judgment on each issue, which is not going to be affected by pressures 
from any quarter. Our geo-political situation, our commitment to ‘certain fundamental 
principles, our historical experiences, particularly, since the days of Independence and above 
all our national interests will be the determining factors in our foreign policy. 


As I said, there is a deliberate effort to label us as pro-this or pro-that.We are not pro- 
any country except pro-India and this is what we intend to remain. When we judge these 
issues, we judge them from the point of view of our national interest and from what we 


consider to be in the interest of world peace. 


All our efforts are directed at securing the speedy withdrawal of Soviet troops from 
Afghanistan. Many big and small powers are involved. The training of armed bands, 


suse coeRetn ee URN 
ad 7 Be 00% peepee 20४ 


providing bases, entering of armed troops across the border and inhabiting another country 
and same other such activities do not create confidence among neighbours. They only 
prolong the misery of the people concerned and create conditions of hostility among the 
States. We cannot but feel disturbed by the reaction of some powers over these 
developments in Afghanistan. Billions of dollars have been asked for and hundreds of 
millions have already been committed to Pakistan in military aid by USA. Other powers 
are being persuaded to make their own contribution to convert Pakistan into an arsenal. 
The People’s Republic of China has also pledged to provide arms and other necessary 
assistance to Pakistan. 


Already contrary to the expressed desires of the littoral States, a naval build-up has 
been taking place in the Indian Ocean and huge armada is being deployed in the Arabian 
Sea. This is being done in the name of securing free flow of oil from the Gulf to the 
industrialised west. This is bound to have reactions, and the Indian Ocean in our region 
has become an arena of super powers. Old treaties are being invoked and new ones are 
being forged. Appeals have been made to the religious sentiments of the people of western 
Asia by outside powers. We know from experience how and against whom these weapons 
have been used in the past. 


We have conveyed our views to Pakistan and the Governments of the United States, 
Soviet Union and other countries. We have once again told the leaders of Pakistan of our 
sincere desire to promote fnenldy relations and co-operation in every sphere in the spirit 
of the Simla Agreement. We hope that neighbouring countries will avoid getting involved 
in this geo-political game of one or another super power and respond positively to the 
hand of friendship and co-operation which we have extended to them. 


We want to improve relations with China, consistent with our national interests and 
the five principles of peaceful co-existence. 


As the President has stated in his Address, we shall further strengthen and deepen our 
friendly relations with the Soviet Union and consolidate our co-operation with the United 
States. I want to make it clear that our relations with one country 18 not at the cost of our 
relations with another. As a sovereign and independent nation we act in the best interests 
of our people and the cause of world peace and cooperation. 


Some hon. Members have referred to the Islamic bomb. Nuclear bombs and other 
bombs are weapons of mass destruction. There is nothing Christian, Islamic, Hindu, or 
Buddhist about them. The production of nuclear bombs, by any country in our region is 
bound to create a reaction in others which will increase the suspicion and fears of the 
intentions of the bomb producers. We have made it clear that India has no intention of 
producing nuclear weapons, but, at the same time we do not give up our right to use nuclear 
energy for peaceful and developmental purposes. 


General Zia-ul-Haq has told us that he will not produce nuclear bombs. We can only 
hope that he will honour his assurance. 


194 : 


The situation in South-East Asia continues to cause concern. We do not subscribe to 
the view that any country has a right to teach a lesson to any other country. Instead of 
using the refugees for interfering with the affairs of the other countries, conditions should 
be created in which those desirous of returning to their homeland may do so. Refugees 
should not be made use of as pawns in their power game. However, this new variant of 
the cold war is taking place in the setting of the international economic crisis fuelled by 
the higher cost of energy and rise in the prices of industrial equipment. While the situation 
requires expansion of the world economy by free flow of capital and technology, an ever- 
expanding world market and a new international monetary system, the cold war climax 
and the consequent military outbreak will close the avenues for their realisation. The 
developing countries will be the worst sufferers; they will be subjected to pressures, 
inducements and even de-stabilisation; they will be drawn into military conflicts. In such 
a situation, there is a danger of the backward States and the extremist elements being drawn 
into an adventurist action. We have to keep all these matters in mind while dealing with 
the extraordinarily grave and delicate international situation. 


We believe that the best way to ensure world peace is to break down barriers East- 
West, North-South confrontation and try for the co-operation of all nations for economic 
development. 


Mr. Speaker, Sir, an hon. Member spoke about the minorities. I don’t want to go into 
the details. We are deeply concerned with the question of employment opportunities for 
minorities and their other problems. We are equally conscious of the need for economic 
development for them and the development of the Urdu language which I do not regard 
as a language of the minorities. People in every State speak Urdu. Initially I had 
considerable difficulty in understanding the Hindi broadcasts of our Radio or the language 
used by various Hindi Departments. 


a ak मं जद fe मं 2 मंद मं 


I said initially. Now, I have learnt it.* 


In the minorities there are not only our Muslim brothers, although they are the largest 
in number, there are also many other minorities. We are equally consicous of their problems 
and the need to help them, specially, towards their development. 


While the hon. Member was speaking, my colleague Shn Shiv Shankar was telling 
me of the work done in Andhra Pradesh for the Urdu Academy. We started that programme 
and it has been well implemented in Andhra Pradesh in different cities. I should like to 
congratulate those young members who have made their maiden speeches here, specially, 
Shri K.K. Tiwary, Shri Madhavrao Scindia and General Sparrow. I congratulate them. 


ae a4 a he ake मे ae a 


* Responding to Shri Indrajit Gupta’s remark, ‘Mr. Sathe to note.” 


195 


~ J.congratulate them also. *I do not know many but I hope to know them soon. Some 
hon. Members did not get the time to speak. I am sure they will make an equally good 
contributions later on 


Mr. Speaker, some hon. Members have made the criticism that the President’s Address 
lacks direction. I do not understand this at all. On every important aspect of our national 
life, the President’s Address spells out new directions of Government policy and 
Government action, whether it be in the field of law enforcement or planning for nation- 
building or the management of the economy or the welfare of the weaker sections. Our 
objectives are clear and are surely national in content. I do hope that all Members of this 
House, whether in the ruling party or in the Opposition, will extend their full support and 
co-operation in this great task and in successfully meeting the challenges which confront 
the nation. 


Many amendments have been moved on the Motion of Thanks. I have dealt with some 
of them in my remarks but I have not been able to deal with them extensively because 
that would take a longer time. 


But the socio-economic measures which will be unfolded in the coming months in 
furtherance of the Government’s broad objectives will answer the amendments. So, I request 
the hon. Members not to press them but to withdraw the amendments. 


Sir, I thank all those who have taken part ...... 


a af मै Heck मं ae मर 


I have spoken on Assam earlier.** There is nothing specific I can say. Some groups 
are coming to meet me. We are trying to get in touch with the Leaders of the political 
parties so that they can also come before Parliament ends. 


Perhaps you were not here when I informed the House that we had agreed to Shn 
Samar Mukherjee’s suggestion that the Leaders of the Opposition and we should meet with 
the leaders of political parties in Assam to try and find a solution. We are fully aware of 
the difficulties and problems of the Assamese people and also of the hardships and the 
sufferings which some of them have undergone and the very brutal killing of some people. 
But anything that is said might aggravate the situation. That 1s why we think it is better to 
try to find a solution to this delicate problem and also to try and convince the people that 
however great the problems are, agitation is not the solution. If Assam deprives some region 
of some goods, then other regions can deprive it of other essential goods. Similarly, if there 
is reaction by non-Assamese, then that would only add to the suffering. So, at this time 
all of us must—however strong our feelings and I can fully understand the extent of your 
agony-show self-restraint and pool our energies to convince those who are indulging in 
wrong action and to assure them that the problems which are worrying them will be solved 
but it cannot be a one-sided solution. The whole picture has to be taken into consideration. 


Sir, I commend this Motion to the House. 


* Responding to Shri Indrajit Gupta’s remark, “What about those from the Opposition? Many youngmen from here 
also spoke.” 


** Replying to the remark of Shri K-P. Unnikrishnan : ‘‘What about Assam ?” 


196 


Progress with Stability* 


Mr. Chairman, Sir, I have listened very carefully to the speeches of various 
hon. Members when I could remain present in the House. In the case of others, I have 
gone through the points they have made. I regret that I could not remain present throughout 
the debate, as I had wished to do as a similar motion was being discussed in the other 
House and there were unavoidable engagements connected with the visits of various high 
foreign dignitaries. 


Sir, the debate on the President’s Address is an occasion to discuss important 
Government policies. It obviously cannot spell out all policies. It can deal only with some 
major areas and some immediate problems. On our part also, we cannot deal with the entire 
range of issues within three days. Also, Sir, the hon. Membes are well aware that when 
the President’s speech was written, this Government was barely four days old and we were 
not in a position to go in detail into various aspects as we did not have even the full 
knowledge of the state of affairs in the country. However, a number of important subjects 
have been covered by various speakers and I shall try to deal with as many of them as 
possible. 


Before [ get on to the more substantial things. I would like to deal briefly with what 
the Janata and the Lok Dal leaders did, not only to political opponents but also the 
administration after the 1977 elections. It has now been repeated time and again that they 
did nothing wrong that there was no persecution. I think all those who were even remotely 
in touch with our lives at that period are well aware of the campaign of persecution which 
was launched against me, my family, my personal staff and my colleagues. Entirely 
politically motivated commissions and inquiring authorities were set up, as many as 34— 
we are told by the Home Ministry. The manner of their functioning was similar to the 
witchhunt period of the middle ages, whipping up hysterical campaigns against individuals 
and falsely implicating them. Judges and heads of commissions openly met the Prime 
Minister and the Home Minister to receive instructions. This was made obvious when the 
pronouncements made by the Government were in fact carried out. Is this the independence 


of the judiciary ? 


ate a ak 2 ea मै oh a 


Not only were the so-called accused intimidated. Even their old parents, close relatives 
and even distant relatives were threatened, arrested and maltreated. Indiscriminate searches, 


* Replying to the deabte on the Motion of Thanks on the President's Address, R.S. Deb., 30 January, 1980, 
cc. 323-44. 


197 


at. times when women were all alone at home, the sealing of bank lockers, the freezing of 
bank accounts of distant relatives, impounding of passports even in some cases where an 
entire stranger happened to have just a similar name are indicative of their attitude. In one 
case the parents were asked to explain expenditure incurred on a marriage which took place 
in 1947! Several former Ministers were arrested. Shri Gokhale was arrested on a charge 
for giving certain advice. Similar advice was given by Mr. Shah of the Shah Commission 
to a private party. But no action was taken against him. Ministers and CBI officers went 
abroad several times. It would be interesting to know how much was spent on these visits. 
My own arrest, my expulsion from Parliament and subsequent imprisonment are not hidden 
from this hon. House and we have many people sitting here who took a very active part in 
seeing that I should not be spared in any way. They shut their eyes and ears to the plain 
fact that no illegality or improper action had taken place on our part and hence nothing 
could be discovered, no matter how many trips they took abroad or within India, no matter 
how much they tried themselves or with the aid of foreign investigating agencies such as 
the Interpol. The last such visit by CBI officials took place in the beginning of this very 
month, January. 


Some Janata leaders have protested when I said that orders were passed that my pictures, 
my father’s portraits, should be removed. I have been told by a colleague that there was a 
question in this House in which the answer clearly stated that the P & T Department had 
given such an order about Pandit Jawaharlal Nehru’s portraits. 


HOR AK मं मर भर ate 2h मै 


I would like to share a small incident with the House which took place, rather which 
came to my notice, just yesterday. I received a letter. This letter was written 1n March 1977. 
It was given to one of our Ambassadors. I received it yesterday with a covering letter with 
the date of after I was sworn in as the Prime Minister saying that that was not the 
appropriate time to deliver this letter and, therefore that it was being sent now. The letter, 
I may add, was entirely non-political. It was by somebody who had written a book on the 
festivals, the culture and the tourist sites of India. But this shows the atmosphere which 
was created by the Janata Party and its Government amongst our officials whether they 
were posted in India or abroad. 


Sir, the country is well aware how this campaign is still continuing. The Janata Party 
and the Lok Dal are not satisfied with what they have done in that period. They obviously 
are not satisfied with the result of the election and they have not ended their campaign. 
Some responsible people have complained to me that in Madhya Pradesh and other States 
such as Rajasthan and U.P., forcible sterilisation is now being carried out and the people 
are being told that these are the orders of the new Central Government. I have written to 
the concerned Chief Ministers and I have no hesitation in saying that no such order has 
emanated from the Central Government. A similar situation has arisen with regard to 
demolitions of huts of Harijans and other poorer people. 


The hand of the RSS which was seen during the last 33 months in administration, in 
police, in educational institutions and in civic life is still active. In Rajasthan and some 


198 


302%008002000082270%%22602% 
eae ०19) 


eS 
30002:20:%%000%:022 


other States, a wide-spread agitation is going on against the reservation of seats for the 
Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes. Who is behind this agitation? In Parliament, the 
other day, we decided to continue this reservation of seats in legislatures. But these people 
want to create a type of class war on this issue. Our people believe that the State 
Government is encouraging this agitation. 


The Janata is not the only party persecuting us. The Marxists were allying themselves 
with Janata until they were convinced that they had no majority. For thirty months, the 
leftists had forgotten all about RSS communalism. They were a party to the Janata-created 
crisis and its serious consequences. 


The sense of constitutional propriety of many hon. Members was benumbed when the 
Janata party dismissed Congress Governments in the States in 1977. 


a ae aye 2k मर मं 2 a मं 


I would just like to know how many people in this hon. House had opposed this at 
that moment when it took place? How many? 


af a ak 4k 2k ak ak 


How many had spoken up against their other irregularities and wrong doings? When 
they had majority, there was nothing wrong with the electoral system; there was nothing 
wrong with having a large number of seats. But because we have come, it is said that the 
electoral system is to be changed; it does not really represent the people. This double 
thinking and double standard is typical of the Janata party. They are now belittling the 
decisive mandate by resorting to quibbling and statistical jugglery. 


We are advised on various platforms by the Marxists to adopt the socio-economic 
philosophy of China which is now a partner of capitalist Europe and America. We have 
chosen the path of democracy in all facets of our national life. We do not want to follow 
the path which China has followed, the path which led them to total isolation until recently 
and the paths which has now drawn them into the arms of capitalist society. 


Sir, in this House, mention was made by several Members to Centre-State relations. 
The Constitution gives full rights to the States and we are anxious that this should not be 
diluted in any way. I have declared many a time that if there is any special difficulty, we 
will always be ready to discuss such matters with them. However, nothing should be done 
to weaken the Centre and lessen its capacity to help the weaker States or weaker areas or 
weaker sections or to handle situations of crisis to strengthen and enhance the prestige of 
the nation. The Centre is also called upon to help in Inter-State disputes although the best 
way of solving such differences is to have an acceptable arrangement between the States 
concerned themselves. This matter was also gone into in detail by the Administrative 
Reforms Commission and they recommended that no change in the Constitution was called 
for. 


199 


There has been lot of shouting and anxiety expressed about the dissolution of the State 
7 Assemblies. Perhaps, this is the result of a guilty conscience: of the Janata and the Lok 
Dal Parties. In 1977 they took the unprecedented step of demanding that various Chief 
Ministers should resign and dissolve their Legislative Assemblies or face action by the 
Centre. When they refused to oblige, the Centre at one stroke dissolved these Legislative 
Assemblies. The same people now loudly clamour that in spite of the verdict of the people 
in favour of our parties, Assemblies in the States ruled by the Janata Party or the Lok Dal 
should not be dissolved. This shows inconsistency of their stand and the lack of principle 
underlying their argument. Numerous other people, such as Governors and others, were 
made to quit their posts at that time. 


I believe that there 1s also an effort being made that these State Governments should 
create as much difficultly for the Centre as possible in the implementation of our declared 
objectives and declared programmes in our election manifesto. Some hon. Members have 
moaned about stabilisation or destabilisation. Who started this process ? Agitational politics 
was resorted to from 1973 to 1975, taking advantage of the difficult economic situation 
that was fuelled by the international economic crisis, the monetary crisis, energy crisis, 
internal economy, severe drought conditions and last but not least, the burden of the 
Bangladesh war. The experiment was started in Gujarat and then extended to Bihar. It was 
the same people who started the process of destabilisation in this country who are now 
charging us of destabilisation. It was they who started the physical assaults and civil 
disobedience, including the call to the Army and the Police to disobey lawful orders of 
the Government. Even a hunger strike was resorted to for the dissolution of the Gujarat 
Assembly. External forces also assisted in the manipulations. 


Stability seems to have become a dirty word in the political lexicon of certain forces. 
Having worked for instability through inherently contradictory alliance they now feel 
rebuffed by the electorate. On our part, we see stability as an integral element of progress 
and advancement, of a decisive thrust forward for change and development, of social 
transformation and of political cohesion. Stability means not whether governments are 
changing or not changing or even how much majority a government has. I should like to 
remind this hon. House that for nearly a year and a half my Government was in a minority, 
but there was no feeling of insecurity anywhere in the country. Inscurity is how the people 
feel. That the people felt insecure and they felt that the country was unstable even when 
the Janata had 250 members, that is a fact of life. And that today w:th our coming they 
feel the opposite, that is also a fact of life. Therefore, instability 1s not going to come 
whether a government goes or stays, but in how the government is functioning and how 
secure different sections of the people feel, how secure the weaker sections feel, how secure 
the minorities, whether they are the Muslims or the Christians or the Sikhs or the Buddhists, 
feel. That is what security 1s. 


Assam is a very delicate subject just now. I sympathise with those who are suffering 
there, who are being denied various essentials. Every life is valuable, but experts are 
especially so. We share the sorrow of these people with anguish in our hearts. But I also 
share the feelings of the hon. Member who said here that at this moment, the major concern 


should be how to ease the tension, how to defuse hatred or dislike. And that cannot happen 
if we blame one another. This is why even when you know what is happening you try not 
to talk about it—rather not to give it publicity. We can certainly talk about it. I have 
discussed this matter with the Leaders of the Opposition parties and, you all know that I 
accepted their suggestion that we should cal] the leaders of the political parties in Assam 
and discuss this matter with them so that we can find a solution to which, we hope, they 
will also subscribe. If we find a solution here and those people say, “we are not going to 
honour it’, it will not help us in any way. That is why it is important not to aggravate such 
feelings. 1 have personally seen during the language riots in Assam how very sensitive 
and touchy the people become and the most innocent remark leads to an aggravation of 
the whole situation and it may even lead to somebody dying or being injured. That is why 
we feel that in such situations, we must be extremely careful with our words and our actions. 
It does not mean a lack of concern. In fact, it means the opposite. So deep is our concern, 
so deep is our anxiety that we must, rather than talking about it, bend all our energies to 
solve the problem while appreciating the difficulties of the local people—but in “‘local’’ 
there are people of all religions and languages—and appreciating the difficulties of all those 
who are today being called foreigners. 


Today even those who had settled in Assam in the wake of Partition and in the migration 
from what was then East Pakistan in 1964 are being branded as foreigners. People speaking 
non-Assamese Indian languages are being intimidated. 


Some initiatives have been taken. Detailed discussions with the Governor have taken 
place. The students are coming to meet me. I am meeting them tomorrow. In the meantime, 
we have intensified the patrolling on the border to make it more difficult for people to 
come in. Before we make other comments, we should wait until these meetings are over 
and see what is their outcome. 


An hon. Member has drawn attention to the recent crime wave in Delhi. It is obvious 
that this is a continuation of the crime wave which has been sweeping the capital during 
the last 33 months. The number of cognizable crimes in Delhi is : 1976—23,105, 1977— 
35,856, 1978—43,383 and only the first half of 1979—21,370. This shows what a 
stupendous task we have before us to improve the law and order situation. 


Atrocities on Harijans were mentioned in the President’s Address. As you know, I was 
one of the very few people—I do not know actually if anybody else went to reach Belchi 
in very difficult circumstances and at a time when my own party members there were very 
reluctant to allow me to go and had made absolutely no arrangements. It was only when 
my party and I expressed our determined wish ‘to go there even if we had to walk all night 
and we had actually started walking that they hurriedly produced an elephant. That could 
only give some relief to three or four of us and the rest including my hon. friend Mr. Sharma 
had to do it on foot, even swimming where the road was broken. And of course I do not 
want to forget the ladies. My friend, Mrs. Saroj Khaparde—I do not know where she is 


201 


sittthg—braved it also and did the whole trip on foot. Now, the atrocities on the 
Hariyjans : 


The number of cases reported in : 


NOs मर saa ater मम ला मम नरम मल coaean. मल 5,986 
MT ese acter न मी मा मम eaten neces 10,879 
NB 2 मी cies apse aemasaceeee aaeeeneeeeta anys मम न कप या लि मल eects 15,059 
1979 Gupte September) ६०:४४ ०४२०४४३४४३४०३४ केक लि ५ ४०2 eee eas 10,492 


These are all figures gathered at the time of the Janata party rule. 


Communal violence : It is certainly understandable if concern was expressed for the 
rising trend in communal violence during the last 33 months. But one hon. Member went 
on to say that the violence was due to wrong policy of the Congress and that there was no 
communal violence during the Janata rule. I should like to quote some figures to refute 
the statement. Actually, there is no need for figures. You have only to see the feelings of 
the minorities themselves. You have only to go to Jamshedpur, to Aligarh or to Purnea or 
any of the numerous places where such clashes have taken place, to talk to them. And the 
same is true about the Hanrijans. It is not what we did or we did not do. Even if we leave 
that aside, what do the Harijans themselves feel ? What have they said ? This is the question 
and this has made very clear to me. In fact, it is my concern for them and my deep distress 
at the stories they told me as early as May, 1977 or even earlier, perhaps, I think, the end 
of April, 1977, which urged me to go to some of the places which I visited and to come 
back into public life. Before that I was sitting quiet. These Harijans whose lands had been 
taken back from them, the Harijans who had been driven out of their villages, who had 
been driven out of their houses, and whose houses had been burnt, the Harijans in whose 
drinking water wells dirt had been thrown, and the tribals started coming to me atmost 
immediately and after the Parliamentary election in 1977 with facts and figures which we 
were told. I had specially gone at that time to see the Prime Minister Mr. Morarji Desai, 
to tell him to take special personal interest to see that was stopped and that they were 
accorded protection. 


Coming back to the communal clashes : 


In 1976: INQ !OF 110100111 agri sess cei ५0 teehee pee 57% 169 
NO;:0f people Kiled | 53 eicestvectossueeetsavancaccardad eieceeeleeien eats 39 
INO OF DEOPlS MUTE” os iascsiee serdcvessactaeiasscveusrsesemenstincwn esate 794 
In 1977: INO: OF INCIGODIS aici sce ercsrictencen eerie ieee eis 188 
NOOR DETSOMS KIM 0०078 /४०२०७७॥७२४७४७७४४४४४४४४६४ ४४४३ रे ते पेट रद 36 
NO.OF DEPSOMS ॥110180 oii २००४७३४६३/०४४४७३४६/०४४३३३ २३४ के ३ १३३७५ ७छ ०४ _३ 1119 


omnes 


In 1978 : The figure of incidents 206०5 UP tO .................. .. «० ००--०-००००००-००००-००-०-- 230 


NOsOf PersOns KINO जन मम ai didaieiasdoieies 110 
No. of persons injured मा की कह अल मम हम मम मम गम तक 1653 
In 1979 : No. of incidents goes up OO istics 2007 00225 व 1 46 २020 00 60 07007 0060 20040 297 
०0. 01 925$015 11110 ............................---०-०-००००००००००००००००००००००००००-- 260 
INO OF 05015 INTE a :६७७४४४४३४७३३४४२ ४४४३ ७४७३३ ७/नर- ek 2346 


I may add that these are Janata party Government figures, the figures given in the 
various cities where communal riots took place, and which I visited, were far higher than 
these. In fact, I doubt if the Muslim community which suffered, will accept these figures 
at all. 


I do not have to remind this House or the general public that the Congress has always 
stood for and promoted communal harmony in our country. Whenever there had ‘been 
communal tension from the days of Ganesh Shankar Vidyarthi, Congressmen were the first 
to rush there to help in establishing peace and to help in affording relief to the victims. 
The leaders of the Congress Party were the first to condemn the communal violence. All 
of you know that when this violence has taken place in the last 33 months, members of 
the Janata Party themselves, named some of their partners as being responsible for the 
clashes. It is no wonder that the law and order situation worsened and that Harijans and 
minorities were the special victims of this persecution. The police and para-military forces 
which are normally expected to provide protection, were thoroughly demoralised because 
of political interference, which ultimately compelled some of them to go on strike. They 
had to resort to an agitational approach for the redress of their grievances. In this situation, 
the police was not eager to register cases when complaints reached them. They were not 
eager to chase the culprits when thefts took place. They were not eager to bring to book 
anti-social elements when Harijans and minorities were intimidated. In many instances, 
cases had to be withdrawn if the involved people belonged to the then ruling party, 
especially in the States. 


The Leader of the Opposition has referred to the misuse of mass media. I think all our 
people on this side are well aware of the misuse of the media made by him and his 
Government by distorting and suppressing facts, by giving repeated publicity to statements 
which were not substantiated later, by overplaying news concerning not his own party but 
his group in that party and by coercing proprietors of newspapers to remove journalists 
who did not follow their line. The media lost credibility to such an extent that even solid 
supporters of the Janata Party confessed that they had to listen to foreign broadcasts for a 
more correct version of what was happening in India. Some hon. Members sitting opposite, 
Shri Piloo Mody and Shri Bhanu Pratap Singh from the Opposition, have tried to show 
that the last two-and-a-half years have been good years of economic growth. Whom are 
they trying to fool ? 

a at oe 


age afc मंद a oe मं 


203 


~ 


4: The facts are entirely contrary to this, as any report produced in their time by the 
overnment will prove. I can only give some selected indicators. If you want more figures, 
they are easily available. The average annual rate of growth of Gross National Product 
during 1974-77 was 3.8 per cent; from 1977 till now it is 3.2 per cent. The increase in 
index of industrial production then was 6.1% now it is 3.8 per cent. Exports : 26.8 per 
cent then; now 6.2 per cent. Electricity generation : 9.9 per cent then; now, 7.1 per cent. 
Coal production : 8.7 per cent then : now minus 0.4 per cent. Railways : revenue earning 
traffic—tonnes originating : 9.5 per cent then; now, minus 3.4 per cent. 


The hon. Member, Shri Mody talked of the Janata Government bringing down sugar 
prices to Rs. 2.50 to Rs. 3.00 per kilo. He has ignored the fact that this was only a temporary 
phenomenon resulting from high production of sugarcane. Even this was brought about 
by the progressive policies towards sugarcane farmers followed in the past which helped 
them to grow more cane. But the sugar policy was not steady and resulted in prices shooting 
up to even Rs. 6.00 per kilo from early 1979 onwards. Even the issue price of levy sugar 
had gone to Rs. 2.85 per kilo under the Lok Dal Government as against 
Rs. 2.15 per kilo when the Congress Government had left power. I might also say that the 
treatment of the sugarcane growers was such that for the next crop, many have decided 
not to go in for sugarcane. Hence we face a situation when there will be an actue sugar 
shortage. Why have they done so. Because they went to Choudhury Charan Singh and 
perhaps also to the Prime Minister. They were told, “why have you grown so much 
sugarcane ? Who told you to grow so much sugarcane ?” This was their attitude. Instead 
of solving people’s problems and trying to help them, there was always an attitude which 
created further difficulties for them and which was bound to create difficulties for the nation 
as a whole later on. There has been talk also of stability in prices in the last 30 months. 
What are the figures ? The wholesale index average for the year 1974-75 was 174.9, in 


1975-76—-173, in 1976-77—176, in 1977-78 it shoots up to 185.8 and it remained at that. , 


Annual rate of inflation was 25.2 in 1974-75; the next year we brought it down to—1.9. 
In 1976-77 it went up a little to 2. But next year it goes up to 5.2 and for this year it was 
estimated at 17; but this is an estimated figure. Prices rose in 1973-74 and 1974-75. But 
anti-inflational measures of the late 1974 resulted in a continuous decline of prices for the 
next 18 months. Prices rose by 20 per cent during 1979. But the then Government which 
was in a much stronger position because of food and foreign exchange reserves could not 
control the inflation. Prices of several essential commodities registered a very sharp increase 
from March 1977 to July 1979. There was a much bigger jump in respect of some 
commodities of daily consumption from July to December 1979 causing alround misery. 
This is wholesale price index. I have also separate figure for surveys which took place in 
Delhi, in Bombay and so on which are even clearer, but I do not want to take the time of 
the House. 


Now I have here figures of wholesale price index from March 1977 to July 1979 in 
percentage. Onions which rose by 41.5 per cent in 1977-79, from July to December 1979 
went up to 139.8 per cent. Sugar which by 2.8 per cent between March 1977 and July 
1979 went up to 11.1 per cent in July to December, 1979, Cereals which rose by 4.3 per 
cent went up to 10.3 per cent. Edible oils from 5.9 per cent to 9.4 per cent. 


The Janata Party has claimed that the export of foodgrains under their Government 
was because they stepped up agricultural production. Agricultural production cannot be 
stepped up as a miracle. It did increase in 1977-79 but so it did in previous years also. 
They had good rain and they had the infrastructure which we had built which had helped 
the farmer to increase his production. Food production increased from 69 million tonnes 
in 1955-56 to 121 million tonnes in 1975-76. The export of foodgrains was made possible 
only because of the buffer stocks of 20 million tonnes which we had left in March 1977. 
These stocks were built by massive procurement in the years 1975-77. 


Irrigation : { heard one Member quoting a Soviet expert. That expert rightly praised 
Indian planning in that context, because it was the proper planning and investment in the 
earlier years of Congress rule which enabled the creation of irrigation potential of this high 
order in 1977-78. Irrigation projects take time to yield benefit. And therefore the benefits 
in 1977-79 arose only from projects which had been planned and started much earlier. 


I share the deep concern of honourable Members about unemployment. This problem 
has to be tackled by certain immediate programmes and finally to have real impact by 
development as a whole. We have promoted programmes like the 20-point programme, 
small farmers development agencies, etc. which will increase employment opportunities. 
In the five years from 1972 these gave a high level of employment. In 1972, the size of 
the labour force in millions was 240 and the level of unemployment in millions was 16.6. 
In 1977-78, the size of the labour force was 273 millions, but the level of unemployment 
remained about the same. This clearly shows that nearly 33 millions added to the labour 
force have found employment. 


What is the record of the Janata Party in this field? The number of job seekers on the 
Live Registers of Employment Exchange, increased sharply even in 1977-78 from 10.81 
millions to 12.33 millions. This was the period when those Governments were talking 
constantly about relieving unemployment. 


In any debate, there is always a reference to Garibi Hatao and the increase in the 
number of people below the poverty line between 1966 and 1976. What is the source of 
the figures given by the hon. Member, I do not know. In any case those figures are not 
correct. According to the estimates made in the Planning Commission, the number of people 
below the poverty line in 1968-69 was about 28 crores representing 53 per cent of the 
total population. By 1977-78, this had come down to about 49 per cent as the percentage 
of the total population. These estimates can only be approximate and the removal of poverty 
is not something to be accomplished in a few years. It 1s a process that will take a long 
time and we must dedicate ourselves to this task. 


Figures and statistics give different types of pictures. | myself have been travelling 
continuously, not from today, not since I am in office, but long before that. Except for 
some breaks while I was abroad, almost continuously I have been travelling either with 
my parents or alone since 1930. I have, therefore, had the opportunity of seeing the changes. 
I have been to places where there were no roads and places where I had to walk twelve 
miles a day for several days and I have seen the changes in the people. There is change in 


205 


.the health especially of children and women, there is change in the clothes they wear. 
Therefore, to go on saying that nothing has been done in all these years is not a matter to 
be proud of because you are denigrating not the Congress Party, but the people of India. It 
is their endeavour, their struggle and it is their hard work that has achieved this. What we 
have done is to help them by having the correct policy and by giving a definite direction 
in which they should move. But the endeavour and sacrifice has been theirs, whether it is 
our farmers or industrial workers or our brilliant young technologists, engineers, scientists 
and professional people. 


The industrial production in 1979 has declined very sharply. There have been months 
together of zero or negative growth. This naturally had its impact on the extemal trade. 
Poor manufactures have necessitated higher imports. Items such as steel, cement, coal and 
aluminium some of which we were exporting are now being imported in large quantities. 
Imports have registered a growth of 18.8 per cent in 1977-78 over 1976-77, and 12.7 per 
cent in 1978-79 over the previous year. That also shows a high increase in the period of 
April to November 1979. When the percentage in the increase in imports touches 16.8 per 
cent. This has led to the widening of the trade deficit. The balance of trade has gone up in 
April to November 1978. The figure is provisional. In that period it was minus Rs. 729.25 
crores. And next year, 1979, April—November it was about minus Rs. 1181.3 crores. 


An hon. Member complained that the public sectors had languished during the Janata 
rule and asked what the new Government is doing. During our last year in Government, 
i.e. 1976-77, the public sector had made a net profit of Rs. 239 crores. In the first year of 
the Janata rule, there was a net loss of Rs. 91 crores...(/nterruptions). What we have built 
up brick by brick was damaged within two years. We have to motivate the workers and 
the managers of the public sector again to put in their best. They are capable of better 
performance and I have no doubt they will show much better results from now 
on...(/nterruptions). : 


Before I go on to the foreign policy a word about Nagaland. I should like to assure the 
hon. Member who spoke about this of my deep sympathy for the Naga people. Perhaps 
he knows that when I first formed the Government in 1966 there was severe fighting in 
Nagaland. It was I who took the initiative, called the leaders here, and as a result of long 
talks—when at times it seemed almost impossible that they would yield any results—we 
reached an agreement. Nagaland formed its own Government and started on development 
works. I know it has a long way to go but the people are talented and patriotic, and I am 
sure that with their hard work and whatever help we can give, they’will soon achieve a 
better standard of living... (/nterruptions). 


This applies not only to the Nagas but to all our tribal people. They have had a raw 
deal over the centuries, and it is our duty now—we cannot make up for this in a few years— 
to bend all our energies to do as much as possible, whether they are Mizos, Khasis, Garos 
or other tribal people in different parts of India. 


We must also assure greater representation to the Scheduled Castes and the Scheduled 
Tribes and the minorities in the spheres of service and national activity. That is not only 
fair to them but essential for national harmony and the strengthening of our society. 


We are committed to an effective public distribution system. We had just started to 
form it. It was not easy for us to build up the system because that was a period of shortages. 
But we did hope that once the shortage was over, this system would be strengthened. 
Unfortunately the Janata Party does not believe in this type of service to the people and, 
therefore, they did not keep it up. Now to build it again and make it effective is going to 
be one of the task which has to be undertaken. 


Our foreign policy has always been consistent. The world today is at a critical juncture 
in the unending East-West rivalry for dominance. We do not wish to be a part of this rivalry. 
In fact, we want it to be channelled constructively. We also appeal to our neighbour to 
realise that the history of the post-War period has unquestionably demonstrated that smaller 
countries have nothing to gain by becoming pawns in the battle of supremacy between 
the other powers. 


It has been our sad experience that arms given to Pakistan for whatever purpose have 
always been used against India. We are not afraid of Pakistan conquering India. But we 
are concerned that the induction of arms into Pakistan will encourage those who are against 
the process of normalisation. 


We feel that the solution to the problem of Afghanistan should emerge from this region 
without interference by outside power. We are prepared to initiate dialogues with our 
neighbours to achieve this end, and we appeal to our fnends not to take any action that 
would frustrate this objective. There is not much that I wish to say regarding our foreign 
policy at this stage. Somebody has said that there 1s confusion in my mind or that I have 
been changing. I have not changed my attitude. I made it clear during the election campaign 
and that has remained our approach since that is in line with our policy of non-alignment. 
Especially at this time our first and major concern is for the achievement of detente. We 
emphasize the stand we have taken. Detente was a big step towards lasting world peace. 
Unfortunately, now that has been thrown to the winds and once again we have the cold 
war situation. Europe has a genius of picking up problems which are basically European 
problems and putting them on to some other continent so that they themselves can avoid 
the unpleasantness and misery. The rivalry between the big powers has left the European 
borders and is causing tension in Asia. Our major concern today is not to see who is right 
and who is wrong, but to see how we can possibly prevent this cold war from turning into 
a fighting hot war. This is our major concern and that is why we are being extremely careful 
about what we say. The broad outlines of our foreign policy have been clearly defined in 
the President’s Address. I should like to emphasise that the mandate which we have received 
from the people has considerably enhanced the prestige of India in the rest of the world. 
The world sees in it a strong and stable Government which is capable of projecting the 
right image of India and playing our traditionally leading role in international affairs. 


a aK A ae a a a OK मर 


Obviously, we stand by whatever we said in our election manifesto*. Or else why did 
we put it there ? We have declared our policy regarding Kampuchea even before the 


* Replying to the remarks of Shri Jagjit Singh Anand : “What about Kampuchea ? It was mentioned in your election 
manifesto.” 


207 


eleetions were declared and before there was any question of a manifesto. The Janata Party 
iS very strong in asking us to condemn what has happened in Afghanistan. I do not 
remember if they condemned the Chinese aggression in Vietnam or the bringing down of 
democratic regimes and other interferences in different parts of the world. As I said earlier, 
we have not changed our minds about these matters. They are consistent with our foreign 
policy which has been clear from the beginning and we have no intention of diverting 
from it. One hon. Member mentioned Kampuchea. I would ask the Janata Party whether 
they have not heard of the atrocities committed on the people there when half the population 
was wiped out by the Pol Pot regime. I have not heard a word of condemnation or any 
desire for democracy there or any such sentiment expressed by most of the Members sitting 
opposite here. One hon. Member referred to India’s relations with the ASEAN countries. 
We have established good relations with ASEAN countries and propose to strengthen them 
further. Just within a week of the formation of my Government, I had very useful talks 
with the Deputy Prime Minister of Malaysia. 


Mention has also been made of the African people’s struggle in Southern Africa. Our 
firm support to the African people for majority rule in Southern Africa is so well known 
that it needs no reiteration. It 1s a deliberate mischief to even suggest that there can be any 
change in our constant stand in support of the people of Southern Africa. Fortunately, the 
people who are involved in the struggle know me and my policies. They know the support 
which we have always given them and which we shall continue to give them unt they 
are fully free. One hon. Member opposite knows of my very close involvement with the 
struggle in South Africa. I have not dealt with the amendments separately but have covered 
most of them in my reply. I hope hon. Members will not press their amendments now. 
The principal directions of the Government’s policy have been set out in the President’s 
Address and in the coming weeks and months, this House will have an opportunity to 
consider various matters that the Government will bring forward to give a concrete shape , 
to its commitment to resume the process of national building, a process in which I hope 
to have the co-operation of all sections of the House. I thank all the hon. Members for the 
interest they have taken and the contribution they have made to this debate. Now that they 
have expressed their views in full, may I request them once more to withdraw their 
amendments ? The enormous task facing the Government and the nation demands the co- 
operation of all. Thank you for your attention. 


Sir, [now commend the Motion moved by Shn A.R. Antulay to ine House. 


Working for a Self-Reliant India* 


Mr. Deputy Chairman, Sir, a discussion of this nature on a subject as serious as the 
President’s Address is not just to score debating points, although that also is a part of 
parliamentary life and adds zest to the proceedings. It is an occasion to look seriously at 
the problems which confront us. It seemed to me—while I was listening to the speeches, I 
did not hear all of them-that except in a few there was a singular lack of sense of urgency 
or any attempt to fathom the increasing complexity of national and global issues. Some 
Members admitted to have boycotted the Address. Frankly I doubt whether they took the 
trouble of reading it very carefully even afterwards. One Member complained that there 
was no reference to the uplift of the Scheduled Castes and the Scheduled Tribes. Obviously, 
he had missed para 16. 


People are naturally most concerned about the economic situation. So are we. Increasing 
prices hit all people, especially the average citizen and even more the housewives, the 
women and the poor and middle classes. 


What is the total picture of the economic situation. The seventies was a decade of 
inflation and general stagnation of output and employment all over the world. In our 
previous regime, we had dealt effectively with this problem. Even when the Indian economy 
was crippled by failures of power and the sudden rise in international prices of petroleum 
products and other imports, we did succeed in stabilising our economy. While other 
countries were staggering under high rates of inflation, we did bring down our prices: we 
were able to maintain a steady, rapid growth. Now I know that people get rather bored 
over figures, but I must mention some of them. In the years 1969 to 1974, 1.6. the Fourth 
Plan, the national income average rate of growth was 3 : 4 per cent. In 1974 to 1977 it 
was 4:1 per cent. In the years 1977 to 1980, it came down to 3.3 per cent. I am sorry I 
have to go back in years. In 1975-76, according to the Economic Survey, it was 9:6 per 
cent. In 1979-80, it was minus 4.5 per cent. Some hon. Members-at least I heard one: I 
do not know whether others too mentioned it-have quoted the World Bank report relating 
to the fiscak years 1976 to 1979. This clearly indicates lack of understanding of the meaning 
of the term “fiscal period 1976-79” because in the World Bank parlance, this includes 
two years 1975-76 and 1976-77 and also 1977-78 and 1978-79. Of these, the highest growth 
rate was in 1975-76; it was 9.6 per cent. Also, may I point out that in 1979-80 these was 
an actual fall in GNP by about 4.5 per cent. I have said this before, but I am repeating it 
to make it clear because of this reference. In spite of the difficulties as a result of the 
Bangladesh war, acute drought leading to harvest failures, the unexpected sharp rise in 
prices of petroleum products and steep increase in our cost of imports by 1975-76, we 


* Replying to the debate on the Motion of Thanks on the President's Address, R.S. Deb., 25 February, 1981, cc. 199-208. 


A का 
wea aap ones! 


were able to bring, through right policies and tremendous effort and even unpopular 
decisions, a proper balance to the management of our economy. Let us compare the results 
or our policies for the years 1974 to 1977 with the results of the policies of the Janata 
Party Lok Dal Governments for 1977 to 1980. Here are some figures. Now, as regards the 
annual rate of growth of GNP at 1970-71 prices, the percentages are: in 1974 to 1977, 4.1 
;1n 1977 to 1980, 3.3. 


The growth rate of food production in 1974 to 1977-2.8; in 1977 to 1980—-0.2. The 
industrial growth rate: 1974 to 1977— 6.7; 1977 to 1980—3.2. 


The growth rate of export at the current prices: 1974 to 1977-26.6; 1977 to 
1980- 7.8. 


The growth rate of the index of the agricultural production: 1974 to 77-1-7; 1977 to 
1980- 0.8. 


The growth in the foreign exchange reserve, excluding gold and SDRs: 1974 to 
1977-80.4 ; 1977 to 1980-24. 


The growth in the wholesale price index, with 1970-71 = 100 on point to point basis:— 
In 1974 to 1977-5:2; in 1977 to 1980 — 7:8. 


The growth in the consumer price index, with 1976 = 100, March to March basis: in 
1974 to 1977-5 per cent; in 1977 to 1980, 6.2. 


I do not want to keep on harping on the failures of the Janata Party and the Lok Dal 
Governments. But some facts have to be restated because of the statements made from 
the other side. A distressing but inescapable fact is that the infrastructure was allowed to 
run to seed. I shall quote some more figures which bear this out: 


The growth rate in the electricity generation, utilities only in 1974 to 1977-9-8; in , 


1977 to 1980-5.9. 


The growth rate in production of coal and lignite: 1974 to 1977-8.8; 1977 to 
1980- 0.6. | 


The growth rate in the railway traffic in tonne km: 1974 to 1977--9.6; 1977 to 
1980-0.2. 


The growth rate in production. of the finished steel: 1974 to 1977-15.6; 1977 to 
1980- (—) 4.6. 


Reference has also been made to low capacity utilisation of our thermal power plants. 
What 1s the actual picture ? The thermal power capacity utilisation: 1976 to 1977-55.3 
per cent. ; 1979 to 1980—45.4 per cent-November, 1980 to February, 1981, 47.4 per cent. 


We are not complacent as several Members opposite tried to make out, and the President 
has clearly stated this in his Address. We do realise that we have a long way to go. The 
world energy situation is not easy, and we are fully conscious that we have to increasingly 
depend on our own sources and technologies. The hon. Members are aware of my personal 
concer and of our strenuous efforts to harness renewable sources of energy for use in 
agriculture as well as in industry. 


a a अप पल, 
225 ॥ 8 कप 


2 RSI इक gS 0 Sie ge कक और ही मय oe eg Leal ay कक कह यो eile, कल मम जीप ana a etwas opie ie पक ee डक Mats AT ISTO lt Lie tae tte | AN ENE a og 


210 


The Sixth Plan itself is a proof of the correctness of our direction. It sets our goals 
with the limits of our financial and other constraints. Some Members have tried to compare 
this with the Janata Party’s so called Plan. That I am afraid was a Plan that never was. It 
was rolled up like the old bedding rolls that we use to have. Neither the Janata Government 
nor the Lok Dal Government gave their approval to it. Is this not sufficient evidence that 
the sponsor themselves had no faith 1n it ? 


I now come to industry. The improvement in the infrastructure is slowly reflecting itself 
in higher industrial productivity, vital sectors are showing increased utilisation of the 
installed capacities and industrial labour has also responded positively. The number of man- 
days lost on account of labour problems in 1978 was 28.34 millions; in 1979-—43.87 
millions; in 1980—of course, this figure is provisional—12.91 millions. I must admit that 
now there seems to be an increasing resort to strikes and “2२0 slow” movement. I can only 
sincerely hope that politicians will not feel tempted to try to reverse the healthy trend to 
which I have referred. This favourable environment in labour relations has been sought to 
be vitiated in some areas by interested parties who are intent on misguiding labour to serve 
their own ends. I sincerely hope that responsible section of labour leadership will not allow 
themselves to be taken in, and will cooperate in arriving at constructive solutions that are 
in the long-term interests of the workers themselves as well as of our nation. Unless the 
economy prospers, no section can do well, even if they do get a temporary advantage. 


I do not normally like to get involved in controversies between the public sector and 
the private sector. This has been overdone. But now does it help for some people to continue 
to decry the public sector and its performance ? When the Government was committed to 
the public sector, and is committed to the public sector, and has encouraged it, the public 
sector has performed well, as it did during 1974 to 1977. However, in the Janata Party 
and Lok Dal period, there was a marked deterioration. The average pre-tax profit in the 
public sector undertakings in 1974-77 was Rs. 346 crores; in 1977-80, Rs. 190 crores. Of 
course, it is yet to re-attain the vitality necessary to come up to our expectations. 


An hon. Member alleged that the Plan does not refer to land reforms. On the contrary, 
it lays down in no uncertain terms our commitment to various land reform policies and 
measures to implement them. It is ndiculous and untrue to allege that we are not concerned 
with the welfare of our farmers. The base of our party has been and 1s, the base of our 
country is our farmers. Unless they get facilities, India cannot prosper. But the agricultural 
and industrial sectors are closely inter-linked. Each is dependent on the other. Without a 
strong industrial base, we cannot help the rural areas or the poorer sections. Also let us 
not forget that the better-off people cannot be secured unless and until the weaker sections 
are strengthened. Agriculturists and industrialists should see their problems in the context 
of the wider national scene. And the same applies to other sections of our people. 


When we came back to Government, we were faced with an unprecedented drought, 
for which the previous Government had done precious little. We initiated immediately 
vigorous action at the Central and State levels to minimise the hardships of the farming 
community and specially of agricultural workers. Even during this year certain regions 


211 


are in the grip of severe drought. However, as a result of the measures taken, including 
supply of inputs, fixation of better prices, etc., there is indication of a record food-grains 
output this year which I am told will be about 132 million tonnes. 


The law and order situation also has a history. The agitation of the Opposition parties 
towards the end of my previous regime had already weakend the national fabric and eroded 
civil authority. This was followed by the Janata Party Government which gave free rein to 
those whose anti-social activities we had checked. At the same time, not only was disregard 
for authority brought in and communalism and casteism injected in a big way, affecting 
even some sections of the police, but also regrettably, those arms of the Government which 
in our system of Government, should be non-political were politicalised. Even now, while 
Governments at the Centre and in the States have taken steps to curb lawlessness, some 


political parties are busy in encouraging each and every agitation regardless of the 
disharmony created or the tensions generated. 


The arousing of communal passions had given rise to insecurity among minorities. And 
by minorities I do not mean only the Muslims. In various areas other communities are 
minorities. Then there are minorities who are based on the language they speak. Having 
said this, I must also state that I share the concern of the hon. Members about the problems 
of the minorities as well as the general law and order situation. We regard the protection 
of the minorities as a national responsibility. The National Integration Council has been 
revived and we hope that those who have chosen to stay out of its deliberations and those 
of its committees will eventually help in fostering peace and amity among different sections 
of our people. Some hon. Members have complained that the Government has refused to 
cooperate with the Opposition in solving the Assam problem. I have heard only one speech 
like this. There may have been more. This is a fantastic statement. If there is one issue on 
which the Government have been all the time consulting the Opposition either collectively 
or separately, it is the Assam issue. Unfortunately, even here some opposition parties have 
openly supported the continuance of an agitation which has caused immense suffering to 
all sections of the people of Assam and the North-East, especially the weakest and the 
economically most backward, the plain and hill tribals. Even the steps which the agitators 
want cannot be taken because of this obstruction. We have shown great understanding and 
patience in dealing with this problem. Unfortunately, this attitude has not been reciprocated 
by those who are responsible for the agitation. Some elements seem to be resorting to bomb 
attack and other acts of terrorism now. Can a Government remain a silent spectator when 
such incidents take place ? We are trying and shall continue to try to find out a lasting 
solution to the foreigners problem which would be acceptable to all sections of the people. 
This can only be through discussions and consultations in an atmosphere free from violence 
and distrust. We have said on many occasions, privately, publicly and in different forums, 
that we are always prepared to continue such discussions. 


The situation in Gujarat has caused me deep pain and anguish. It is tragic that the State 
which gave birth to Mahatma Gandhi should now witness these deplorable incidents. We 
have the moral obligation as well as the constitutional responsibility to advance the 
educational interests of the weaker sections of our society and in particular the Scheduled 
Castes and the Scheduled Tribes. Here also, it is a pity that some political parties seem to 
be instigating the students and others to create confrontation when none need exist. We 
hope that saner elements will prevail and end this ill-advised agitation. If the weaker 


212 * 


sections in this country are to take their rightful place in society, we must accelerate the 
process of their economic and social advancement. A high-powered panel is already going 
into this matter. But, naturally, we must ensure that merit does not suffer and no section 
feels that it is being discriminated against. 


An hon. Member spoke about women. I hesitate to speak on women lest I be accused 
of partiality. But our leaders have all agreed on the importance of helping them to be equal 
partners and sharers, otherwise no plans can be properly implemented and the nation itself 
cannot rise. The National Plan of Action for women serves as a guideline to the Central 
and State Governments. Measures seeking to amend the laws relating to rape and dowry 
are before the Committees of Parliament. They need careful thought and detailed 
consideration which, I am sure, the Members on those Committees and other hon. Members 
will give them. A programme of special relevance to women is the family planning 
programme. After the disastrous set-back that this programme suffered in the period since 
1977, 1 has begun to pick up some little momentum. It is my firm belief that our people, 
especially our women, even in the rural areas, do want family planning as an important 
means of improving the quality of their lives and giving better opportunities to their 
children. It is as much in the interest of individual families as the national interest. In fact, 
we have always promoted this programme not merely from the point of view of population 
control, but in order to have healthier and happier families. 


I come now to foreign policy. Just as we are rectifying the distortions in our economy 
and strengthening our political system, we are also bringing our foreign policy back on to 
the track of non-alignment. A movement which was regarded as divided and weak is once 
more starting to consolidate its position. This is reflected in the perceptions of countries 
all over the world. We seek no leadership. We believe in the cooperative effort of working 
together in partnership with others. This is what has brought us success and appreciation 
for our efforts in the chancelleries of the world. The recently concluded Non-aligned 
Conference and the earlier CHOGREM meeting were appluaded for our balanced and 
constructive approach. I wonder how those who criticised this Conference have so soon 
forgotten disastrous performance of the Lok Dal delegation to the earlier Commonwealth 
Conference in Lusaka or the back seat taken in Havana. However, we have now to look 
to the future rather than to the past. Our aim should be to create a strong and self-reliant 
India which will secure the well-being of our people and maintain our standing and prestige 
abroad. In this task, we need and seek the cooperation of every section of our people and 
1 hope that it will be forthcoming in good measure from all parties. 


Hon. Members, if I have criticised some aspects of the previous Government, it is not 
for the sake of criticism or, as I said earlier of scoring points. It is only to clarify the issues 
raised by the Opposition. I have no desire to waste time or energy in mutual recreminations. 
There is a time for everything and this is certainly a time for working together. We have 
definite policies which have stood the test of time. By “we” I mean our party. But we are 
open to new ideas and suggestions. The world itself is in the grip of crises-economic, social 


213 


wate a ला 


sete 


rt Pye 


and even possibly cultural, and crisis of civilization and so on, as every leader who has 
visited here or whom I have had the opportunity of meeting, in Salisbury or in Belgrade, 
has touched on many international issues but has been largely concerned with these 
problems with which his own country is confronted. Hon. Members can see this for 
themselves in the reports which appear in national and the international newspapers. 


In this situation which every country is facing, naturally, the burdens and difficulties 
of a poorer country, a country which is already economically backward and has much 
leeway to make up, become all the heavier. So, let us discuss matters calmly and coolly 
and try to solve problems and difficulties in a spirit of nationalism. 


We live in a great country. We have the good fortune to have a wonderful people. Let 
us try to be worthy of them. 


Sir, I commend the Motion of Thanks to the President. 


214 हु 


Upheaval in the Economy” 


Mr. Speaker, Sir, I am somewhat in a dilemma. I had hoped to avoid any kind of 
recrimination and repetition of the comparisons which so upset and excite the hon. Members 
of Opposition. But the tenor of many of their remarks, the quoting of figures out of context- 
the hon. Member who launched the attack seemed to attach almost scriptural significance 
to a particular document-these leave me no choice but to refer to that period. But I assure 
you Sir, and the House that I do so without any bitterness or any feeling of satisfaction. I 
do not seek alibis nor do I wish needlessly to irritate anyone. 


The non-performance or the mis-performance of the Janata Party and Lok Dal 
Government is not hidden. Much of it was admitted by the hon. Members sitting opposite 
themselves at that time as well as later. These debates are always interesting, not only for 
the ideas expressed but for the measure one has of the speakers. I have listened to many 
of the speeches but not all. Apart from a few, there was more sound and fury than substance. 
From our side several hon. Members made spirited defence and many of the points made 
by the Opposition were well answered. This makes my task easier. 


I was amazed to hear an extraordinary statement accusing us of making the President 
express our views. The President’s Address has to reflect the policies and perception of 
the Government in power. That happens to be the consitutional position. It is ridiculous to 
say that we have brought the President within the pale of controversy. The President’s 
Address, it is well recognised, is a policy document of the Government. Had it been the 
President’s own statement hon. Members would not be introducing amendments. 


An astounding and non-sensical theory was propounded that Shri Charan Singh’s 
Government was our creation. Nothing can be farther from the truth. We protested strongly 
that he had no claim to form a Government at that time. (/nterruptions) 


When we resigned in 1977 we left the House in good condition. It was harmonious in 
the sense that the law and order situation was satisfactory. The communal situation, while 
not what we desired, seemed to be under control, the grain godowns were overflowing 
and foreign exchange reserves were excellent. But what did we find on return ? The 
intervening years proved to be years not merely of drift and indecision but, what is much 
worse—years of disally. The thrust that we had given to the economy in the mid-seventies 
had generated its own momentum which continued to take the country forward for a while 


* Replying to the debate on the Motion of Thanks on the President's Address, LS. Deb., 26 February, 1981, cc. 235-252. 


215 


Ea dae eet 


even afterwards, until for want of direction and support it began to slow down. Had the 
momentum been kept up in the years 1977 to 1979, the country would not have been in 
the state we found last year when the G.N.P. fell by about 4.5 per cent. 


Since several hon. Members have spoken of the performance for 1977 to 1979, it is 
worthwhile to compare the results of the policies for the three years, 1974 to 1977 with 
the results of the policies of the Janata Party and Lok Dal Governments in the succeeding 
three years. You have probably heard the figures. But I give them again for the record. 
You will notice that where we needed increase, that is in the actual growth of the G.N.P. it 
came down from 4.1 per cent to 3.3 per cent, the industrial growth rate from 6.7 in 1974- 
77 to 3.2 in 1977-80, the growth rate of exports (at current prices) from 26.8 to 7.8 in 
1977-80. The growth rate of the index of agricultural production came down from 1.7 in 
1974-77 to 0.8 in 1977-80; and where we needed a decrease, for instance in the wholesale 
price index—counting 1970-71 equals 100 on a point to point basis—from 5.2 it rose to 8.8 
in 1977-80. The growth in consumer price index—March to March basis rose from 5 per 
cent to 6.2 per cent. 


The World Bank report was cited with great flourish in referring to the performance 
of the fiscal year 1976-79-—a vain attempt to show how much was done by the Janata Party. 
This document was prepared by the World Bank staff and does not necessarily reflect the 
views of the Bank’s Executive Directors. Perhaps the hon. Member was under the 
impression that the figures he read out referred only to the Janata Party and Lok Dal period. 
Actually, in World Bank parlance, this term “fiscal period 1976-1979” includes the period 
1975-76, 1976-77 as also 1977-78 and 1978-79. In these four years, the highest growth 
rate was in 1975-76, which was 9.6 per cent. I have earlier mentioned what happened 11 
1979-80 to the growth rate, i.e. it slumped by minus 4.5 per cent. This same World Bank 
report states that the stabilisation measures taken in 1975 brought the severe inflation of 
that period under control. We do not want, nor is there need, to quote from the World Bank 
reports or for that matter any other report prepared by a foreign agency, as our Socialist 
and Marxist members seem so keen to do. The facts of our achievements speak for 
themselves. What is the fact of the achievements of Janata Party and Lok Dal Governments 
? During those three years, the rate of growth works out to 3.3 per cent, which is less than 
the trend of growth rate of 3.5 per cent and lower than the average annual growth rate of 
4.1 per cent during the three years preceding the Janata-Lok Dal rule. Even the 3.3 per 
cent growth rate during 1977 to 1979 was made possible only by the long-term policies 
followed and the momentum created by my earlier Government, as I stated at the beginning. 


Inflation, Sir, is the main subject of conversation everywhere. The current Economic 
Survey gives figures which show how we have brought down the inflation rate from last 
year. Obviously we have not yet been able completely to reverse the trend set by the last 
few years. However, the price situation has somewhat improved. 


It was alleged by one hon. Member that India’s rate of inflation is the highest in the 
world. I do not know from what source the hon. Member gets his information. According 
to the latest IMF International Financial Statistics, the increase in consumer price indices 
in India from December, 1979 to September, 1980 was 7.5 per cent. I should like to give 


216 


: BREE RN 4 
22202 20502 %: 22 
pees ESE SRS SRR 


ae 
20072 
sane Be 4 
Senta: 
oy, 25%) of, 
: oe 
(222: 


छा Pot 
201] ee 20220 05, 
SORE res eee es 


the House some comparative figures. They are: Korea 24.3 per cent, Mexico 22.5 per 
cent, Pakistan 14.2 per cent, U.K. 12.8 per cent, Philippines 11.2 per cent, Indonesia 9.8 
per cent, USA 9.5 per cent and India, as I mentioned earlier, 7.5 per cent. However, this is 
no satisfaction to us and even though it is extremely difficult to insulate our economy 
from international inflationary pressures, we are trying hard to keep prices from rising. 
But some items like oil, as everybody knows, are not in our control. 


On our return to Government, we gave priority to halt the drift and to initiate new 
programmes to sustain economic development. The main thrust of Government policy is 
to increase production. In agriculture, we must expand irrigation, provide quality seeds 
and chemical inputs and strengthen extension services. The following figures speak for 
themselves. Fertiliser consumption in 1979-80 was 5.2 million tonnes. In 1980-81-the figure 
15 provisional—5.6 million tonnes. Area under high-yielding varieties in 1979-80 was 35.2 
million hectares and in 1980-81, 48 million hectares. Institutional credit for agriculture by 
cO-operatives and banks has gone up from Rs. 2,550 crores to Rs. 2,990 crores. 


Industrial performance in 1980-81 was much better than in 1979-80. We have taken 
steps to ensure better utilisation of installed capacity, remove restraints on production, raise 
limits on investments on small-scale units, ancillaries and tiny units. 


Performance within each sector of the infrastructure was closely monitored by the 
Special Coordination Cell, problems were identified and better coordination effected. As 
a result of which the industrial growth rate improved from 1.4 per cent in 1979-80 to 4 
per cent in 1980-81. Electricity generation (as the percentage over previous year) improved 
from 2.2 per cent to 6 per cent. Coal production improved from 106.9 to 115.0 million 
tonnes. 


af ok ok ae ak मर 26 9k ak 


Cargo handling by major ports (from April to Novermber) improved from 480 lakh 
tonnes to 510 tonnes. 


I was told that for some unknown reasons the word ‘export’ was regarded almost as a 
bad word by the previous Government. So we had to take major initiatives to rescue it 
from stagnation. 


The public distribution system has been strengthened. The off-take figures show that 
rice was 3.28 million tonnes in 1979-80 whereas in 1980-81 it was 4.34 million tonnes. In 
wheat, improvement has not been very much. But still it is an improvement from 
5.14 million tonnes to 5.9 million tonnes. 


During 1980-81, 40,000 fair price shops were opened mostly in rural areas. 


It was amusing to hear that credit was being taken by Opposition parties for securing 
higher sugar cane prices. Actually, this was made possible only by our implementation of 
rational sugar pricing and distribution policies. This policy brought the total sugar 
production upto what is the highest in the last five years, 29 lakh tonnes till 7-2-1981. 
Those who created the gigantic sugar muddle in 1979 can hardly take credit for this reversal 


of the trend. 


217 


- We prefer to help the kisan rather than enter into competition in shouting slogans of 
sympathv from him. When I said that 25 per cent of the Plan outlay would be set apart for 
farmers, I meant it. The level of investment for agriculture, rural development, irrigation 
and special area development, which benefits rural areas, is indeed of that order. 


The other repetitive theme of a particular party 1s that of the import of foodgrains to 
build buffer stocks during 1974-77. I dealt with this comprehensively in my reply to the 
President’s Address last year when I pointed out that the buffer stocks could not have been 
built but for the higher procurement of foodgrains by our Government. Please remember 
that it was our Government which was responsible for the policy of buffer stocking as an 
important factor of managing inflation and an instrument to provide essential commodities 
at reasonable rates to weaker sections of the society. For our part we intend to continue 
these policies. It is wholly wrong to accuse us of slowing down procurement. We are 
following it up. Already the procurement of rice in -kharif 1980-81 has exceeded 4.7 million 
tonnes, as against 3.6 million tonnes in the whole kharif year of 1979-80. But West Bengal 
which has had a very good harvest, I hear, has procured much less than it can and should 
do. I hope this is not according to some plan of theirs. 


We have also been accused of depleting our foreign exchange reserves. May I remind 
hon. Members that in 1966 the position was really bad. Our reserves started accumulating 
from 1975 onwards in a big way, mainly due to bigger export efforts in the earlier years 
and increases in remittances from Indians abroad. But the reserves are not built for their 
own Sake. They give us a cushion to manage the balance of payments problem, and should 
be used when necessary to finance imports, especially when they rise sharply, as in this 
year, because of the increase in the prices of POL products. The figures for POL imports 
are as follows: 1978-79 Rs. 1,677 crores ; 1980-81 Rs. 5,600 crores (estimated). Against 
this increase in imports of about Rs. 4,000 crores for only one item, our draw down of 
foreign currency assets is expected to be only about Rs. 400 crores. 


For a country’s growth, the infra-structure is of the utmost importance. A sad but 
inescapable fact is that the infra-structure, including the public sector, was carelessly 
neglected. The following is the position:—The growth rate in electricity generation in 
utilities only in 1974—77 was 9.8 per cent. In 1977-80 it went down to 5.9 per cent. The 
growth rate of production of coal and lignite, which was 8.8 per cent in 1974-77, went 
down to 0.6 per cent in 1977-80. THe growth rate in railway traffic in tonne kilometres 
was 9.6 per cent in 1974—77 which went down to 0.2 per cent in 1977-80. The growth 
rate in the production of finished steel was 15.6 per cent in 1974—77, which went down 
to minus 4.6 per cent in 1977-80. This is from the Economic Survey. 


In our scheme of things, the public sector has a special place. Its working has improved 
and we expect it to overcome the inertia of 1979-80 and do as well and even better than 
in the period of 1974-77. The average pre-tax profit of public sector undertakings in 1974- 
77 was Rs. 316 crores. In 1977-80 it went down to Rs. 190 crores. 


I am glad that industrial labour has responded positively to the measures we have taken 
so far. The number of man-days lost on account of labour problems in 1978 was 23.84 


218 : 


million; the provisional figure for 1980 is 12.91 million. But some people can’t leave well 
alone. Attempts are being made to misguide labour and to vitiate the favourable industrial 
relations’ situation. I appeal to the responsible sections of labour leadership not to allow 
themselves to be misled but to help us to serve the long-term interest of workers, which 
lies in increased production and in a sound and stable economy. 


Family planning is indeed very vital for the whole world and specially in our 
circumstances. It is in this area that we have had the most crippling set back in the last 
year. Our Party and Government have never advocated compulsory methods, and we have 
considered the programme not merely as a measure of population control but for healthier 
families and the general well-being of our people. One hon. Member said and I fully support 
him, that this programme not only needs all-out effort by the Government but full co- 
operation of all the sections of the people, regardless of party or other considerations. 


A rather feeble effort was made to project that outlays on science and technology were 
poor compared to what the Janata Party Government had provided. Of course, theirs was 
a Plan, as I said yesterday, that never was, because it was not approved by them. We all 
know what sort of interest that Government had taken in science and technology; and the 
consequent frustration of our scientists and technologists. Were not the achivements of our 
science denigrated in public, especially in so far as our peaceful nuclear experiment was 
concerned? It was an odd coincidence, and I want to make it very clear that for this I am 
not blaming either the then Government or our scientists, but it was strange coincidence 
that even the Bkaskara they sent up into space refused to send back information. It is a 
dark chapter in the history of our science and technology. I assure the House that we have 
the greatest commitment to science and technology and that our outlays on plan and non- 
plan expenditure will be significant as well as result-oriented. We shall continue to give 
all support to our brilliant scientists and technologists. 


The law and order situation 1s one which worries all, and 1 share that anxiety. But one 
must see the problem in perspective. During the last years of my previous regime, agitations 
were deliberately fostered, giving rise to a climate of violence. The elements responsible 
for this were permitted to operate unchecked and thereby gained respectability. Later, during 
the Janata Party/Lok Dal inter-regnum, caste and communal considerations came to the 
fore. The outcome is there for all to see—disregard for authority, demoralisation of law 
enforcement agencies, the politicalisation of government apparatus and heightened 
communal and caste tensions. 


Now, while the Central and State Governments are taking measures to curb lawlessness, 
some parties have taken it upon themselves to encourage, if not foment, a variety of fresh 
agitations without the slightest regard to the damage caused to national life and national 
economy. 


Each individual’s or group’s welfare depends on the total picture and the overall 
progress. And progress depends on the produce from our fields and factories. Progress 
depends on the functioning, quality and output of our schools, colleges, universities and 
other public and technological establishments. 


219 


- Should any of us say or do anything to clog these wheels of progress and growth? I 
leave it to each one of you here in this House, and to the nation, to judge whether there 
are elements in our country who have incited and are inciting various sections. There are 
also those who have double talk of higher price to farmers and lower price to consumers— 
price-rise and anti-price rise about the same commodity. The attempt is to hamper 
production, by getting workers to stop or slow down work, by trying to paralyse the 
distribution system, to create tension and even a fear psychosis. Whatever the legitimacy 
or otherwise of various demands, is it in the national interest to give slogans like “RAASTA 
ROKO” or “RAIL ROKO” or “KAM ROKO”. 


An hon. Member complained of my not visiting all the places where disturbances occur. 
In this, I cannot totally ignore the advice of the local administration. Some situations, 
especially communal ones, become very tense and it is considered advisable to go only 
when there is relative calm. At other times going helps to restore confidence. On occasions 
one has noticed that frequent visits rekindle sorrowful memories and keep emotions on 
the boil, thereby delaying normalcy. 


The agitation in Assam has been going on for a long time. The Government have 
adopted a most patient and constructive attitude. It is indeed a pity that this has not evoked 
adequate response from the leaders of the agitation. Now, a new element has been 
introduced—terrorism: the throwing of bombs. Such a development cannot be countenanced 
by any Government. 


We have had prolonged consultations with the leaders of political parties on this issue. 
It is unfortunate that a political party which claims to be a national one has now chosen to 
come out in favour of an agitation, which has caused untold hardship to the people of Assam 
and the North-East, and considerable damage to the economy there as well as the national 
economy. Amongst those most upset are the plains and hill tribal people. However, 
Government will continue its efforts to find a solution acceptable to all concerned. 


There was understandable disquiet regarding feelings of insecurity amongst minorities. 
My party and I have always stood for those who are weaker, either economically, socially 
or because of numbers. Hence we are committed to the protection of minorities whether 
religious or linguistic. By the way, yesterday while I was listening to, I do not think it was 
the Member who was speaking, I think it was somebody who was interrupting. This 
Member told a story about the Hindi language and how somebody had ssid in Bombay— 


बस आती है कि आता है? जवाब था, 'आवत' है 


which is the language spoken from my part of U.P. But it reminded me of a similar story. 


मर Hea at, he he मे 


It is an old, pre-independence story. Two English officials, who were learning Urdu 
from different teachers were arguing among themselves. One said that this is a ‘tashtari’. 
The other said “no, my teacher has said it is a ‘rakabi’.” So, they decided to consult the 
bearer. The bearer said: 


““हुजूर, हम तो इसको पलेट कहते हैं।'' 


220 


One of the measures to foster communal harmony 18 the revival of the National 
Integration Council. Even though some persons refuse to join the Council, we hope that 
these deliberations will lead to useful results. 


Yesterday, I heard there was criticism of my trip to Sravanbelgola. I went to 
Gometeshwara to pay homage to one of the great streams of Indian thought which has 
made deep impact on our history, on our culture and even on the methods adopted in our 
freedom struggle. Hon. Members know that Gandhiji was influenced by 1 and took up 
ideas of non-violence, non-possession and so on. 


ae मंद ak a ae मे ae ae 


Members are rightly exercised over the agitation in Gujarat. It is most distressing. My 
heartfelt sympathy is with all those who suffer and specially because there, those who are 
suffering are the weakest of our people. It is deplorable that some political parties are 
encouraging people to persist in this ill-advised movement. The Government have moral 
obligation and constitutional responsibility to advance the educational interests of the 
weaker sections of our society and in particular, the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes. 


mie >fe afc aK ok We और ae 


And that we must and that we intend to discharge this responsibility in full measure. 
Naturally we must see that merit does not suffer and that no section feels discriminated 
against. I hope that the more responsible sections of the society will help to bring about 
an early restoration of peace. 


One Member made an astonishing remark about my Government’s interference in 
educational institutions. The troubles in these bodies have been started by some Opposition 
parties meddling with students or terrorising the staff. It is in States run by one of these 
parties that there is real interference on a big scale to the detriment of the effective 
functioning of prestigious institutions—-Saha Institute of Nuclear Physics and the Bose 
Institute. 


aK 3c a atc ae मर ae ae ae 


I am not talking about English, I am not talking about primary education. I am talking 
about the higher institutes of science. 


I think, yesterday, it was said that various universities also have been interfered with, 
actually 6 out of 7, and, so far as I know the seventh university is Viswabharati which is a 
Central University. So, they cannot interfere with it. 


मैध गंध मै a मं मै oh a 
If it is not true, if they have not interfered, I shall accept it. I am not arguing about 


this. This is the information we have from the local people and those concemed with these 
bodies. (Interruptions) It is not from officers. 


221 


Similarly, I have had delegations from the Ramakrishna Mission complaining of the 
taking over of their polytechnics and schools. We know that. this institution enjoys 
worldwide renown for its dedicated and fine educational, medical and relief work. 
(Interruptions). If these matters are wrong, I shall be the first person to accept and admit 
it. 


KCK 21k ak मं मंद ak 


We feel it is confirmed information. But if it is not as I have already said I am prepared 
to look into it. There is no question of anybody resigning. I am not threatening the hon. 
Member.* 


Now, I come to foreign policy. It seems to me that there are a few hon. Members who 
live in an imaginary world of their own. One spoke of the normalisation of relations with 
our neighbours during the Janata Party regime. History cannot be so easily distorted. It 
was my Government which took the first step for normalisation with Pakistan and the last 
major initiative in this direction was the Simla Agreement. Willingly giving up our river 
waters to the exent of damaging the Calcutta Port cannot be called normalisation. Good 
neighbourly relations can exist and grow only on the basis of reciprocity and mutual benefit. 
To this path we shall steadfastly adhere. We are as anxious as anybody. In fact, we think it 
is essential to have good relations with all our neighbours and we are doing everything 
possible for this. Another hon. Member spoke of lack of moral character. Strange words 
indeed from that party. 


Events have demonstrated the nghtness of our principled stands on various issues. The 
recent Non-Aligned conference has highlighted our balanced, constructive and active 
approach. The hon. Member, Shri Vajpayee’s later statements to the Press revealed 
unsuspected depths of humour, perhaps unconsciously. How else can we explain his 
approbation of India’s role at the Havana Summit ? Through the Janata Party-Lok Dal 
interregnum, the question among the Non-Aligned was, “India where are you?’’. In that 
period, various factors, including international factors, led to the weakening of the Non- 
Aligned Movement, and when I met world leaders in Salisbury and Belgrade, they 
wondered if the movement could survive or would it break up. | 


Thus, the Conference of Foreign Ministers of Non-Aligned countries was held at a 
time when perils abounded to world understanding and especially to non-aligned unity. 
There were propagandistic statements and homilies, and many did their best to sow 
suspicion among us. But every one recognises that in Delhi we were able to avert the danger 
of division and, to that extent increase our capacity to work for the lessening of international 
tensions. I must compliment our Foreign Minister and his team of officials for their patient, 
unruffled and untiring work to iron out points of difference and to persuade the antagonists 
to come closer. We now have a constructive initiative on the Iran-Iraq question. Regarding 
Afghanistan, leaders from all parts of the world who met me have commended as practical 
the Indian stand which seeks to help create an atmosphere for an early political solution. 


sea ok a a ak ae ak ak 


* Shri Satyasadhan Chakraborty. 


222 z 


०7८६०:०००००: 


NOR RO a ena Se EN TT 


Sore’ 
at 
ey 


22222 Ree er ee 253 


Somebody asked, “‘publicly or privately”. We have not changed our stand. It was made 
clear privately and publicly, in every possible forum. 


Much is made of the fact that our Draft did not refer to one or two points. Now, it is 
clear that this was not a national draft, nor an elucidation of the Indian point of view, but 
a consensus paper. It was a compilation of various ideas aimed at evolving a common 
approach which become an excellent starting point and achieved maximum agreement. 


As I said earlier, this does not mean that we have, at any time, changed our views or 
that they were not clearly made known to all. News from different quarters of international 
community informs us of a generally favourable reaction to the Conference. Here in this 
House the fact that we are criticised by opposing sections speaks volumes for our non- 
aligned stance. Anyhow, I do not expect impartial judgement from those who have made 
it their policy to attack me, whatever I do or say. 


Our farmers are true patriots. They suffer and serve sweating in their fields, protecting 
our borders or through their sons who labour in factories. Their spirit of service and sacrifice 
has kept this nation going. Our Farmers’ Rally was indeed an impressive and inspiring 
event. It gave farmers from all parts of the country, even from the remotest areas in 
the...(/nterruptions) 


We ac ac a fe जे ae अर oe 


It was not a government function, Sir.* But when anything takes place on this scale, it 
is important to the nation. 


It gave our farmers from all parts of the country, even from the remotest areas in the 
North and North-East, opportunity to come together and demonstrate Indian unity in spite 
of great distance and diversities. It gave them the feeling of participation in the larger 
national effort. 


Observers were especially impressed by the exemplary behaviour and discipline of such 
massive numbers, unprecedented at any time anywhere in the world. This should be a source 
of pride to all Indians. 


Our working classes have always shown a high sense of patriotism more so during 
difficult times and I do sincerely hope that they will act with patience and restraint and do 
nothing to hamper production in factories or work in offices. Within the means available, 
the Government have been always anxious to do justice to all sections of people, and shall 
continue to do so. But we cannot ignore the poorest amongst the poor who call for 
immediate attention. The better of people cannot be secured unless the weaker sections 
are made stronger. There is no or rather should not be rivalry between any section. 


My speech would be incomplete without a word of appreciation of our Armed Forces. 
The entire country admires the manner in which they serve and sacrifice for our security 


* Replying to Shri Amar Roy Pradhan’s remark, “‘I want to know whether it was a Government rally or not.” 


223 


and in times of peace bring relief to victims of various calamities. We remember also our 


Ex-servicemen. 


As I have said earlier, it is not my desire to score debating points or to continue an 
endless discussion on the past. Today’s world moves much too fast to allow us that luxury. 
I have no quarrel with the Opposition. I wish them well. They have somehow to criticise 
the Government which we do not mind. Sometimes the criticism is theatrical and sometimes 
tends to gimmickery. Perhaps they think that this will help them. They are the best judges 
of what they should do. I am more concerned with what we and our Party do and we shall 
not allow any one to divert our attention from basic problems. I have repeatedly appealed 
for and offered cooperation. I am sorry to say that the response has been more towards 
confrontation. Opposition parties most of them have trod the path of confrontation all these 
years. Can we not give a trial to cooperation and discuss matters with cordiality ? I doubt 
if any one disputes the view that the situation, in various ways, in and around our country 
is serious. The future is already upon us : All countries are faced with hard decisions. We 
have no soft options. This situation demands a concerted and stupendous endeavour which 
can only be achieved by constructive cooperation from hon. Members, from political parties, 
from farmers and workers, form professionals and intellectuals, from women and from 
youth, in fact, from all our people. If we can consider our problems in that larger context, 
in the context of the nation’s problems and difficulties and international situation, Sir, I 
have no doubt that this country has the strength to overcome these obstacles and to march 
forward towards socialism, towards a better life for our people by solving their many 
problems. This cooperation I seek from the hon. Members of all sides of the House. | 
commend the Motion of Thanks to the President’s Address. 


224 J 


ee 

enn 

7, Se 

Been eee 
RE 22:22: 77: 


BE SEIS IIIS NS 26 
. es Beare ei ee 


०५०२० ,०२०१०१०.०,०७०,०००,०, 
Sees Nee 
wo’ S55 
cae 
०५ = 
oO 7 ४९५ 


aa : . 22222 
ee 


22 
~ १2225 


ee 
ee 


Overall Government Performance“ 


Mr. Deputy Chairman, Sir, and hon. Members, once again the House has debated the 
President’s Address. 


mK मं me ae ic me a oe 


One always expects a great deal from these debates and somehow one is disappointed. 
Reading the records of the contributions made, one cannot help feeling rather sorry about 
the irresponsibility in some speeches and even animus from the Opposition benches. One 
expects from the member sitting opposite, to make light of the weightiest matters, but, 
even so, some of the statements which he and others have made were truly astounding : 
that we have wasted money on the South-South dialogues, that our public distribution 
system does not cover even a microscopic minority in the country, and that our schools 
and universities are producing only morons. I leave it to the other Members of the House 
to come to their own conclusions on this last item specially. 


But the main target of attack was our 20-Point Economic Programme and this revealed 
the Opposition at its most pathetic and pathological level. I should like to put a few straight 
questions to them. Which of the points do you disapprove ? Irrigation ? Greater production 
of pulses and oilseeds ? National Rural Employment Programme ? Are you against land 
ceilings and redistribution of the surplus land ? Are you against enforcement of minimum 
wages for agricultural labourers ? Are you against the rehabilitation of bonded labour or 
the accelerated programmes for the Scheduled Castes and Tribes ? Do you not want the 
rural drinking programme and allotment of house sites, and so on ? I need not cover the 
entire list. It is apparent that those who criticize the 20-Point Programme lack the courage 
of being honest with themselves. Or, else, they are so consumed by hatred of the Congress 
and the Government that they do not hesitate to oppose even necessary programmes which 
serve the people. A few Opposition Members called the 20-Point Programme a mere 
‘mantra’. But would they have been so upset, had we been paying lip service to the 
programme ? Perhaps they would have welcomed that. But they realise how earnest we 
are. They know also of the enthusiasm the programme has generated amongst the people. 
The earlier 20-Point Programme made a tangible impact and that is why the people today 
welcome the revised one. It sets about purposely to attain some specific goals in clearly 
demarcated areas. It embodies some of the urgent and essential objectives, social and 
economic. It stresses our commitment to the security, welfare and uplift of the Scheduled 


* Replying to the debate on the Motion of Thanks on the President's Address, R.S. Deb., 1 March, 1982. cc. 390-402. 


es 


Rad tal 
hiss Sa 
222 
। 
५ 


bead 
42222 
baa 


», 
1 
22 


Castes and Scheduled Tribes. It gives the Plan a sharper focus and because of the 20-Point 
Programme, the Plan itself has been able to get larger allocations. 


Hon. Member, Shri Piloo Mody, accused us with his usual flourish : Do you know 
where you are going, he asked ? Theatricals apart, we do know. And talking of theatre, I 
am reminded of a film that I saw some years ago called “The Party’’. In that a very famous 
actor—now dead—Peter Sellers was acting the part of a rather lovable Indian tyning to rescue 
a damsel in distress. The villain of the piece caught hold of him and shook him and asked 
: Who do you think, you are ? He replied : In India we do not think who we are; we know 
who we are. (/nterruptions) 


ae ke ak a मैट मै feat a 


Well, the answer in one word, Mr. Mody,* is : Forward! Towards a stronger, Self-Reliant 
India, in which the individual has more freedom and feels more cared for, an India in which 
democracy, secularism and social justice are safe and more real to the people. (/nterruptions) 
We feel deeply concerned about the problems of the minorities. They play such an important 
part in all spheres of national activity. The Government and the majority community and 
this differs in different States must consider it their special responsibility to safeguard all 
who are weaker for any reason. We are going on the path of democracy, secularism and 
socialism, in the direction along which the Congress was taking the country under 
Jawaharlal Nehru’s leadership from the first day of our freedom. That has been the direction 
that my party and I have followed since. 


When, the hon. Member and his co-workers—or, may I say, non-co-workers ?— 
(Interruptions)—were in office, the country did not have a direction. It seems to be 
meandering this way and that. Now we are back on the road. 


But this has taken two years of unremitting toil. In many States we have not yet regained - 
the old tempo, but the infrastructures for power, coal, railways, etc. are at least in working 
order. Over and above this repair job, we have, with foreti. »ught and prudence, also been 
building up the infrastructure for immediate minimum gr, wth in agriculture, namely, 
irrigation and fertilisers production. Any country should be proud of its success in adding 
five million hectares in just two years to the area under irrigation and increasing the 
petroleum production by 60 per cent within a single year. Only a small section of our 
parliamentarians don’t seem to appreciate the magnitude of this achievement. However, 
let me assure our technologists and engineers that the nation as a whole applauds what 
they have done, and are doing, to enable our farmers and our workers to produce more. 
The need of the hour is production. Only thus can there be more to be distributed among 
larger numbers of people. Admittedly, the public distribution system does not yet cover 
the entire population, but that is the aim towards which we are progressing. At the same 
time, it would not be correct to say that it reaches only a microscopic minority, as stated 
by an hon. Member. There are 2.98 lakh fair price shops of which more than 60,000 were 


neem . Re N Reta re ARV ON EEN PND SRO He AION AC ra ONO RCE TRH SNR DORE AR a een tas 


ra cs 


ve 
sect 

2075 

So 


SENSE 
८०102 ान रूट 


* Replying to Shri Piloo Mody who said, “Madam, if I come to you tomorrow morning, will you please tell me : 


११ 


Where are we going...... 


opened in the last two years. On an average, one million tonnes of foodgrains are distributed 
through them every month. They also handle 65 per cent of the quantity of sugar produced 
which is distributed as levy sugar, and about 20 per cent of edible oil. 


It is also not right to say that we have abandoned the Food-for-Work Programme. In 
fact, we have improved upon it and removed the defects which were pointed out in 
evaluation and by audit, and are now implementing it as a National Rural Employment 
Programme. To remove malpractices by contractors which had been noticed in the original 
programme, the N.R.E.P. has decided that there will be no contractors and that the work 
will be done through Zila Parishads, etc. The State Governments have also been asked to 
ensure that 40 per cent of the cost of the project is in the form of materials so that the 
asset is durable. Sixty per cent will be given as wages. This will ensure that employment 
is not diluted. Under the food component, one kilogram of grain will be provided per worker 
per day. For this, allotments of foodgrains are being made from the central pool. State 
Governments have also been asked to procure foodgrains. The Sixth Plan aims at generating 
employment of 350 to 400 million mandays per year under this programme, and we expect 
to achieve this target. The 1982-83 Plan provides a total of 380 crore of rupees for this 
programme as against 360 crore last year. 


Another section of the Opposition benches accused us of encouraging the multinationals 
in the name of production and swerving from our path. There 18 absolutely no truth in this 
charge. We are not given special concessions to multinationals. Also the sudden and new- 
found love for our old path is touching and inexplicable. But logic is not the strong point 
of our self-styled leftists. Multinationals do borrow from public financial institutions, but 
not to the detriment of other small and medium users. 


Several Members have spoken of inflation and the burden it imposes on the people. I 
do not want to repeat the figures which quite clearly demonstrate our success in bringing 
down the rate of inflation. Reduction in wholesale prices is bound to get reflected in 
reduction of consumer prices although usually there is a time lag. If we succeed in keeping 
the rate of inflation and wholesale prices in check, this will also restrain inflation in the 
retail price index. It is obvious that inflation causes hardship. That is exactly why we have 
made control of inflation one of our prime policy objective. Considering the state of the 
economy with its rampant inflation, that we inherited on our return to office, our two years’ 
effort has made an impressive impact. However, I should like to emphasise the major aspect 
of our anti-inflationary policy. 


In most capitalist countries, inflation is sought to be controlled by creating 
unemployment. Obviously that cannot be our policy. To redress the hardships of the 
common people, we must control prices and at the same time augment employment 
opportunities. There must be substantial growth in production which will increase the supply 
of goods and thus reduce prices, and provide opportunities for further development and 
the generation of investment and employment. Our anti-inflationary policies are consistent 
with our development policies. This is the basis of our current economic policies and also 
of our Budget. We have tried to ensure maximum thrust to planned development. Every 
effort has been made to find the resources to finance a considerable increase in the size of 


227 


the Annual Plan and at the same time to reduce non-developmental expenditure to the 
minimum, so that the deficit remains within the barest minimum and does not create further 
inflationary pressures. Within the Plan allocation also, the maximum emphasis has been 
on programmes providing support and generating income for the poorer sections in 
accordance with our 20-Point Programme. 


Hon. Members will have noted that allocation for the development plan at the Centre 
has been increased from Rs. 8,619 crore to Rs. 11,000 crore, a 27.6 per cent rise. Important 
segments benefiting from this increase are the National Rural Employment Programme, 
the integrated rural development and allied programmes and programmes for the Scheduled 
Castes and Tribes. A great deal of pre-Budget propaganda had been caried on that the 
Government would be dictated to by outside elements. Even some hon. Member has said 
so. This 1s not very becoming of Members of this august Parliament of a proud country. 
Yet, what do we see ? It is the business circles which are most disappointed and most 
critical of the Budget. The Budget shows the full awareness of the urgent tasks before the 
nation is welfare of the weakest, employment, stimulation of production, containment of 
inflation and safeguarding of our security, each one 1s a formidable task 1n itself. But we 
are determined to achieve all of them. 


It is in line with this policy that we have decided to make the current year the Year of 
Productivity. Every economic activity must get the maximum out of potential created. We 
shall provide all the support necessary to increase productivity in industry and in agriculture, 
in the service sector and in the infrastructue. I hope everybody will participate in this 
national effort. 


How can Bharat Bandhs be consistent with increased productivity ? How can greater 
productivity be sustained if the essential services are disrupted time and again ? I have 
always upheld the rights of our labour and trade union movement. But they also have social 
obligations. A break-down in any single essential service can paralyse the entire national 
economy and obviously those who suffer most are usually the poorest and weakest sections. 
A strike in these industries cannot be taken lightly by anyone who is interested in the 
country’s development. 


Some hon. Members have referred to the problem of increasing real wages. The per 
Capita income in our country has been increasing consistently. Since the beginning of 
Planning until now it has increased by about 50 per cent. And this is at a time when the 
population itself 1s up by about 90 per cent. Surely it should be clear to everybody that 
increase in productivity is the first condition necessary for any increase in the real wages 
of our working people. The working class itself is gradually finding out who its real friends 
are. It is getting tired of being exploited for partisan ends by political leaders who do not 
care for their welfare or for the solidarity of the working class. It is because of their 
realisation, that the mighty display planned for January 19th turned out to be a damp squib. 


An hon. Member complained that federalism was disappearing. And he spoke of 
centralised finance and administration. This is an old and oft-repeated argument. The one 
difference is that generally, previously, it was voiced by Leftists of West Bengal and Kerala. 


228 . 


This time it has come from a Member of another party. The powers of the Centre and the 
States have been fairly well demarcated. When we have to run a modern State, national 
finance as a whole have to be monitoned with care. In the name of State autonomy a State 
cannot run up overdrafts and other improvident policies which will have reprecussions on 
other States, and this 1s true irrespective of what party might be in power in a State. 


It has been alleged that the Government does not care for science. This is quite 
preposterous. The House knows that scientists as a whole feel at home with this Government 
and the Government is fully aware of its responsibilities towards science and scientists. It 
is true that we cannot provide them all the facilities they need, nor match the salary scales 
abroad. A certain amount of brain-drain occurs not only from our country but even from 
Europe to the United States. But a large number of very able and distinguished scientists 
do stay and work in India at considerable sacrifice of pay and comfort for themselves and 
their families. What actuates them is the love of the country and the desire to serve our 
people. The achievements of our scientists in various fields are a matter of pride. The 
President’s Address has mentioned the work in Space, and the latest expedition to 
Antarctica. Some M.Ps. were able to meet the leader of the expedition at the Consultative 
Committee meeting. Later this evening I am meeting the entire Expedition and, I am sure, 
you would like me to convey to them your congratulations. 


Another hon. Member thought that the Assam problem had not been mentioned in the 
right perspective. I have tried always to see it from the national perspective. We have 
deplored its being viewed from a narrow view point. We have shown great patience and 
shall continue to do so keeping in mind the political and humanitarian considerations as 
well as constitutional obligations. 


Another Member charged that land-reforms had not been mentioned. I might point out 
that land reforms form an important element in the 20-Point Programme. In fact, I can 
show that we intend to implement them with determination. A disturbing development in 
the late 70s was a very large number, thousands in each State, of petitions in high courts 
and lower courts against the actual distribution made. I seek the co-operation of all parties 
in dealing with this problem. 


One hon. Member spoke of increase in crimes against women. This is a matter which 
is Of grave concern to us all. Instances of rape and instances of dowry murder are a blot 
on the fair name of our country. The old restraints imposed by family and by religion are 
weakening. This is happening all over the world. To point this out is not to defend. Our 
columnist and sometimes our cartoonists have a habit of pouring scorn on what is called 
the global phenomena. But the modern media have had an unsettling effect on social life. 
Crimes against women are particularly heinous form of permissiveness. The administration 
must deal with these much more firmly. At the same time, I feel that public-spirited people 
should help in arousing the public to combat such barbarous mentalities. 


There 1s a certain erosion of values. To some extent this is understandable when an 
entire nation moves from one age to another. You can imagine the uncertainty that creeps 
in. I feel strongly that we should not get alienated from our roots, that we should find a 


229 


way of linking the old and the new as we have done through the ages. Our basic values 
have not changed. We must have progress but we should remain rooted in those of our 
values which are timeless, which have given this country strength and sustained us in times 
of difficulties and disturbance. 


I am glad to note that one hon. Member spoke on environment and forest, even though 
he did so only to criticise us. I can legitimately take some credit for making the country 
environment-conscious and I am most anxious to make environment conservation an 
integral part of development. Environmentalists the world over consider me as one of 
themselves and come to me when they have a problem or suggestion. Countless are the 
instances in which I have personally intervened. There can be no two opinions about the 
danger of unscientific felling of trees and destruction of forests to the future and to our 
present. In the last few years we have initiated a series of measures and procedures to 
prevent the misuse of forests. We have established a Department of Environment and we 
have made environmental clearance a necessary pre-condition of approval of development 
projects. But many State Governments and Central agencies are impatient about these 
restrictions. I shall not willingly sacrifice the nation’s long-term good for immediate gain 
but for this I do need people’s co-operation. The pressure of population and of development 
is very great on the States and on the local people and frankly I am finding it exceedingly 
difficult to convince them that if today they do not look after their forests or wild life and 
so on, later on it is those very people living in those areas who will suffer the most. For 
instance, 1f you kill all the fish, what are the fishermen going to do later on ? They have 
to ensure that supply remains. And it is the same when people go out to get skins or when 
they want to put up projects in areas which all over the world are considered to be unique 
and well worth preserving and in fact, essential to be preserved. 


I have already referred to the remark of an Opposition Member regarding the New 
Delhi South-South Consultations. A more thoughtless observation on this subject is hard 
to imagine. It reveals total ignorance of the nature of the world economic crisis and the 
burdens it casts on developing countries. The meeting was useful. It was a step towards 
greater Co-operation between developing countries, which is essential as a basic for North- 
South talks. Our initiative was welcomed by all. 


The International scene is beset by two major dangers—the menace of war and 
widening disparity between the developed and the developing nations. These appear 
overwhelming and almost intraceable. But I do believe that if we go about it with 
confidence and clarity, there is no problem to which a solution cannot be found. Problems 
are not solved by throwing up one’s hands in despair but by patient, persistent and dogged 
efforts. India is known for its determination in the non-aligned movement, in the Group 
of 77 and other causes. People expect us to play the part that befits the country of our 
size. We do not wish to assume any leadership role. I feel that most of the world’s troubles 
arise from this desire of leadership. We wish to work in partnership and we shall always 
be with our colleagues in Asia, Africa and Latin America, ready to support and serve their 
cause which is also ours. We do not seek leadership; yet the world looks to us, some with 
respect and some with apprehension because of the ideals which we so strongly espouse. 


The hon. Members should be concerned with Pakistan is natural. We want Pakistan to 
live in peace with us. We want it to be reconciled to itself and to us. We shall not be 
bamboozled or provoked by what they do in their own country. We shall continue our effort 
to improve relations with al] our neighbouring countries including Pakistan and China, 
keeping our cyes open to whatever they do. As the hon. Members know, when the Pakistani 
Foreign Minister was here a short while ago, I offered them a treaty of friendship and co- 
operation. 


Mr. Deputy Chiarman, most hon. Members know—even those who might criticise us— 
that ours is a Government which will safeguard the nation’s interest in every way, its 
economic interest, its security and its internal fabric. The President’s Address refers to 
immediate problems which concern us and outlines the strength that is being built up. I 
do not claim that these achievements, present or future, are my achievements. As I reiterate 
time and again, they are the achviements of our farmers, industrial and other workers, our 
scientists, technologists and Defence service. Let us give them more support, more courage, 
more hope. 


Many people in the world are saying that the “time is out of joint” and certainly the 
situation needs all of us; a concerted effort, nationwide and even worldwide, to set it nght. 
Let no temporary gain or convenience divert us from it. But with due apologies to 
Shakespeare, may I say that it is not time which is out of joint. Time goes merrily on its 
way; the seasons come and go. It 1s we humans who are alienating ourselves from the 
rhythm of nature. Instead of viewing the world and nature as one whole, and our myriad 
problems in their totality, we have put up all kinds of barriers, national and international. 
Concentration on fragments creates new problems and imbalances. In the name of progress, 
we do not hesitate to destroy what has so far sustained life on earth. What is required is 
first of all the correct mental attitude and then action on it. Action which overrides any 
narrow political or other considerations. 


Sir, I commend the President’s Address for the acceptance of the House and request 
those who have tabled amendments to withdraw them. 


231 


(६ 
aye बी 


(९ कि 


A Review of Government Policies* 


Mr. Speaker, Sir, a new year has begun and once more we have debated the motion on 
the President’s Address. Parliament is a place of debate, but on some occasions, and 
specially on this particular occasion, I had hoped that Members of the Opposition would 
try to rise, even though temporarily, above their petty preoccupations and use the occasion 
for serious discussion on basic issues and national problems and preoccupations. Am I 
wrong in thinking that on the whole the contributions to this debate have been 
disappointing? Hon. Members of the Opposition have indulged in their oft-repeated 
favourite criticisms and petty prejudices. They have a right to do so. That is why they are 
here and they would not be what they are if they did not. 


a ac ae Rk AK Wi मं! at 


I have always kept above narrowness. In the earlier years, I used to ask the Opposition 
to place an alternative programme before the nation. I no longer do so. The country has 
stopped expecting this of them for no one now credits them with the capability of doing 
so. The country has realised that they have no interest in an alternative programme and 
are concentrating merely on the weakening, and if possible, removal of the Government, 
even though the Government has been democratically elected. 


One Opposition Member derided the President’s call for co-operation among parties 
on the larger problems before our country. I do not think I need to repeat that Government 
takes this call most seriously. The hon. Member attached a number of pre-conditions. One 
was that, I should give an assurance removing all doubts and apprehensions-—these are his 
words, I think—about threats to the Constitution and the basic structure and about the 
freedom of the judiciary and the Press. The only condition he forgot to attach was that he 
would support the Government only if his own people were in it ! 


I sympathise with the Opposition in the peculiar predicament they find themselves in, 
this year. With no shortage to cry about-even onions have not obliged them to shed tears— 
with no ‘galloping inflation’ to protest against, it has not been easy for the Opposition to 
find firing targets. Out of sheer despair, they have to fall back on their stale phrases of 
1977 and earlier and resurrect the dead bogies of ‘dangers’ to democracy, to the judicial 
system and electoral process, etc. Little do they realise that in doing this, they merely expose 


* Replying to the debate on the Motion of Thanks on the President’s Address. L.5. Deb., 1 March, 1982, cc. 372-84. 


232 


2:22: 


x 
‘ew ae" 


BRS SR ORE itis Shaeronan rea cannes meee 


apo 
oe 
eee 


52% 


cect 
बटबटड:बन: 


Es 
०222 
a 


2105९ 
Bee 


the contradictions in their own logic and in some cases, the hollowness of their political 
pronouncements. 


Sir, we have proved our adherence to democracy, the sovereignty of the people and 
the sanctity of Parliament. I did not change my views when I was expelled from this House 
immediately after having been duly elected by the people. 


me a a ah oe fe 2H af 


On the contrary, the attitude to Parliament of some other persons has been oscillating, 
according to which side of the House they are sitting! The system is the same one which 
gave them a majority in 1977 and us in earlier elections as well as in 1980. But these very 
persons do not hesitate to launch extra-parliamentary agitations, advocating a change in 
the entire system. It 1s they who pose a threat to the system, not us, and certainly not me. 
Even now their theoreticians are busy advancing new agendas. 


As for the judiciary, some harsh words were recently said about judges. They were 
not spoken by us but by self-appointed custodians of the judicial conscience. Why was 
this group angry ? Because the Supreme Court had upheld the Government’s position on 
the appointment and transfer of judges. It seems that to these luminaries a judge is right 
only when he strikes down what has been passed by Parliament or done by Executive, 
and wrong on the occasions when he finds merit in national policies. This is not judicial 
balance. The danger to the judiciary comes from those who assign such a permanently 
negative role to the judiciary. 


There have been stringent charges of our wanting to postpone election in West Bengal. 
Leaders of the ruling front and some friends here seem to have little to do except issue 
statements every day that the Centre wishes to introduce President’s Rule. Perhaps, this is 
wishful thinking on their part. All the democratic parties in the State, some of whom in 
this House are represented on the benches opposite have asked for the electoral rolls to 
reflect the correct state of the electorate. This is the basic condition for establishing the 
credibility of the electoral system. And to ask for this—and that too following established 
legal and statutory procedure—becomes “anti-democratic” in the twisted logic of some 
people..... 


We have also heard a great deal about the postponement of the bye-election in Garhwal. 
Opposition Members are at their worst on this issue, displaying contradiction and blatant 
absurdity. When the Election Commission ordered the postponement of the bye-election 
on the ground that police force from outside has been inducted into the State and other 
such reasons, the Opposition hailed the decision as truly democratic and a great vindication 
of the sanctity of the electoral system. But when on a subsequent occasion the same Election 
Commission postponed the bye-election on the ground that arrangements for an orderly 
pool had to be ensured, the same Opposition Members shout hoarse about dangers to 
democracy and the electoral system. Does this mean, Sir, that democracy is safe and the 
election system retains its sanctity only when decisions of the Election Commission go in 
favour of the Opposition Parties? The Opposition hails one decision and wails at another, 
and on both occasions blames the Government ! (/nterruptions) 


am 


ae ota af ak मं eK 


If you are short of sticks to beat the Government with, please do not select those which 
break in your hands and hurt you more. 


The growth of violence is indeed cause for great concern to us all. Caste tensions 
increased in the late seventies with the coming to power of certain persons and groups 
who have been known to think along, and encourage, caste divisions. The Congress has 
always believed in dealing fairly with every group and region within a State and in holding 
them together. The Congress as a party has repudiated the theories of class-war and caste- 
war and has stood for the reconciliation of conflicting interests. This was Gandhiji’s 
approach, Jawaharlal Nehru’s approach and that of Sardar Patel and Maulana Azad. This 
is our inheritance. I do not deny that some Congressmen might occasionally have also 
abetted caste tension, but this we deplore and take action against. We try our utmost to 
give an equal chance to all the various groups which constitute our nation. 


We have a special duty to the Scheduled Castes and Tribes. Their safety and welfare 
are basic to our very system. We are determined to help them as well as all those who, 
because of poverty, have been denied opportunities and their rightful place in society. 


The Address has been criticised for not referring to Mizoram or the rest of the North- 
East. The nation has been dealing with understanding and firmness with misguided elements 
in that region, who are indulging in underground and hostile activities. We are trying all 
possible methods to bring them into the mainstream of national politics and economic 
development. Indeed, in the last two years, the tempo of development in all of the North- 
East has greatly improved. 


I do not want to go into many details, but hon. Members will be interested to know 
that the total allocation in the Sixth Plan for the five States and two Union Territories is 
Rs. 2,387 crore. Central assistance is over 80% and the per capita outlay in the North- 
East Rs. 1,393, as compared to a much lower figure elsewhere. The allocations for 1982- 
83 are substantially higher than those in 1981-82. Additionally, the North-East Council 
has a Sixth Plan provision of Rs. 340 crore. 


As for Mizoram, we have had long talks with Mr. Laldenga. Some of his conditions 
no Government could accept. The situation in the region 1s under control. I am deeply 
grieved that tragic incidents, like the recent ambush of security forces 12 Manipur do occur. 
I am sure the House will join me in expressing sympathy with the families who have lost 
their loved ones and bread winners. 


As regards Assam, the House is aware of the patience and consideration we have shown. 
We shall not waver from reason, compassion and constitutional responsibility, even if the 
other side does not fully reciprocate. The President could have made a stronger reference, 
but we did not want to say anything that might mar the climate for negotiations. Some 
people are becoming restive and even accusing me of dnft. But we shall persevere with 
patience. Most Opposition parties are now associated with the discussion and are aware 
of the complexity of the problem. 


< cet Saco Seance eats Ose aidan ad CPA SOC ORE MK ON SOREL MSU MN SRO at RN AMS 
22072: 20522: Paice tre nee he 7022 Te 
642 areas a2 Pater arcana sate 20021: 70% Nie 
errata at 1०,०90 ate ete 0 022204/24 a 
7, शक घन ८ poten priate 2200 22220 (20042: 402 ।:02201.20-:7 2272, 1 2१ 
; 2० saad oD हद, oe Oe boa ae ees 


sae 
aS Stee ae ere Cer Re Osteen , 
5 1226: steer et eeterate BD Puen 


es 


Bee 
40००-7० 
ane 


OR 


os 


Many references have been made to corruption in public life. Some Opposition speakers 
are trying to create the impression that corruption has become a problem only now, and 
that the corrupt are only in the Government. I earnestly appeal to all sections of the House, 
whether in the Government, in the ruling party, or in the Opposition, to deal with this issue 
without partisan bias or political motives. Corruption is corruption, whether practised by 
a person in power, or person aspiring for power, or any other, and we have to fight it at all 
fronts and at all levels. There is no sense in taking a ‘holier than thou’ attitude, focussing 
on certain individuals and instances. Corruption anywhere will pollute the whole system 
and must be treated as a symptom of a wider malady. I should like to assure the House 
and the nation that we shall continue our relentless war against this evil at all levels and 
at all times. I appeal for the co-operation and support of everyone in arousing the moral 
consciousness and strength of the whole nation in this task. 


A greater proportion of the Address this ttme was devoted to the economic situation. 
Rightly so, we want the people to know what has been achieved in the last 26 months 
through sustained, unremitting, even grim toil, to put the economy back on its feet. We 
have, at the same time, built capacity for further growth in the immediate future. Is it 
negligible to increase irrigation by 2.5 million hectares, as we have done in each of the 
last two years, and by the 3 million hectares we propose to do in each of the next three 
years ? Is it negligible to increase the production of petroleum by more than 60 per cent 
within a year ? Our engineers, our technologists, are building this country. All they need 
is comprehension, support and encouragement from the Government and the people. Ours 
is a Government which gives that support. Let us all be proud of these men and women-— 
and of our farmers and our industrial workers—who are literally our nation-builders. 


It is nonsense to make out that we are unsympathetic to the working class. Workers 
are beginning to understand who are their real friends and well-wishers. Are they the 
wildeyed Opposition politicians who exploit them for-political ends, or we who are making 
every effort to help them towards a better future ? Wasn’t this clear from the flop of what 
was pompously called Bharat Bandh ? 


We have a mixed economy. The public sector occupies the commanding heights of 
the economy and serves our social objectives. It operates side by side with a developing 
and viable private sector which should find its prosperity also in working for the realisation 
of our social objectives. I can assure the House that my Government has not deviated from 
this basic policy. We are liberalising our economy but only in those areas where controls 
and restrictions were becoming counter productive. During the early years of our 
development many controls and restrictions were necessary to protect our relatively 
undeveloped weak economic base and nascent industry. Today our situation has changed. 
Our industry has become strong, our economy has become self—assured. We now compete 
with some of the most developed countries in major areas of economic activity. We can 
absorb the most sophisticated technology without deviating from self-reliance. The 
liberalisation of controls and regulations provide a positive support to our strategy of growth 
and development. Large houses now can operate in areas of our social priority, the core 
sector, in industries which generate export and in areas with the largest impact on economic 


235 


development and generation of employment. Similarly, foreign investment is welcome in 
areas of high technology, in consonance with our policy. 


An hon. Member quoted certain statistics in a vain attempt to show that we are still 
where we were last year. The present trouble regarding our economy 15 indeed that in 1977- 
79 it was pushed back by several years. It has taken us all this time to get it back to its 
position in 1976-77. In many areas it has not yet regained its earlier buoyancy. 


An hon. Member has referred to the per capita availability of cereals and pulses in 
1980-81 as being 459.5 grams—or less than what was achieved in 1978-79. He did not tell 
the House that in 1975-76 the per capita availability was 453.3 grams. In 1979-80, it came 
down to 416-9 grams. However, I am not blaming the Government of which he was a 
distinguished member, for I know that there was drought at that time. But, also I do not 
have to apologise for the fact that within one year after our coming into office the per 
capita availability has been raised to 459.5 grams. What we have to realise is that 
availability figures will fluctuate from year to year because of droughts and weather 
conditions. But can any one deny that in the last 15 years, our cereal production has 
increased more than 70 per cent ? | 


We were also aksed why we had imported wheat even though we had a good harvest, 
and why prices had increased even though there was no further increase in international 
oil prices during the year. The reason is not far to seek and I have explained it earlier. 
Even though the grain production in 1980-81 was 130 million tonnes, it followed a very 
low harvest of 109.7 million tonnes in 1979-80. Stocks had been depleted and we exercised 
prudence and foresight in importing wheat at a time when world prices were very low to 
bring the buffer stock back to the required level of a minimum of 12 million tonnes. 


As for prices, oil is not the only commodity we import. There are items such as 
fertilizers, edible oils, oil seeds and different kinds of raw materials required for domestic 
production. One must also remember that the consequences of international price levels 
do not cease operating. 


Not only I, but knowledgeable people all over the world, will be amused by the 
accusation that we lack talent. Our talent is the talent to build, to know how to serve the 
people and to retain their confidence. It is indeed said that the only talent of the hon. 
Member and some of his colleagues is the talent to destroy, and to try to weaken the morale 
of our people. Even in this debate the words used were “The response will be dynamite!’ 


Can the National Security Act and the Productivity Year go together ? It was asked. I 
counter with another question. Can Bharat Bandlis bring productivity ? The accusations 
that Government is running after multinationals and giving freer rein to large business 
houses are just so many empty words. The revised Twenty-Point Programme has also been 
criticised. So was the previous one. The programme does give importance to production 
but not at the cost of social justice. A close and dispassionate examination of the 
20-Point shows its fine balance between production and welfare. In fact, even a little clear 
thinking is enough to understand that there can be no welfare without production. I am 


- 
८2227: cree rector npr 
NP annem ०2 20 शा BN 

2200 22050 wah 


Spee 
221 0:2:८८-० 


< 
Be 
aes 


reminded of my father’s words on the subject, in the early years of our independence when 
he said, “socialism without higher production would be a low-level poor socialism”. 


All countries-capitalist, communist and socialist—are stressing production today and 
with good reason. Regulations, whose only virtue is restriction on production, do not make 
us more socialist. We intend to pursue our all-out efforts to produce more oil, more 
electricity, more fertilizers, more foodgrains and more of the basic needs of our people. 


Had we earlier produced more oil, the crisis of the seventies would not have hit us so 
badly. At that time there were many people on the opposition benches who gunned for 
Shn K.D. Malviya but they hit our self-sufficiency. If we do not even now move ahead 
swiftly, future crisis will find us more vulnerable. 


Rapid progress now is essential. We should not hesitate to avail ourselves of whatever 
investments and technology we can secure. Our Government and our political system are 
strong enough, technologically and otherwise, not to allow our self-reliance to be mortgaged 
by outside funds and know-how. 


This is what we call operation forward. The Janata Party’s strategy was movement into 
the past. Ours is forward into the future. I do not know whether the communist parties 
want to go forwards or backwards. 


ce 9 a 2k मे me मंद मर 


The strengthening of our economy and technology 1s particularly important because 
of the nature of the dangers which surround us. Some people seem incapable of realising 
the gravity of the present situation. Recently at a Conference I said that “if by any chance 
a nuclear warhead should sneeze, billions would suffer’. This might happen even without 
Heads of Governments wanting it. Too many nuclear submarines are prowling around in 
too many areas. With the general increase of militancy all around, Europe has suddenly 
woken up to the peril it faces from the sum total of increasing armaments. But it is not 
Europe alone that is menaced. The strategic calculations and preparations of others increase 
the threat to us. That is why we have so persistently deplored the arming of Pakistan and 
the militarisation of the Indian Ocean. 


Many of the amendments deal with Pakistan. A few weeks ago when the Foreign 
Minister of Pakistan visited Delhi for discussion, I said that pact or no pact India would 
not attack Pakistan. That sums up the principle and conciliatory policy we have always 
adopted in regard to Pakistan. Pakistan’s policy became apparent again when, within a 
few days, its representative, speaking at the U.N. Human Rights Commission made 
untenable charges against India, bringing up Kashmir. 


All this reveals Pakistan’s obsession. Let us show them that we do not suffer from any 
such obsession about them or others. We cannot underrate Pakistan’s potential for trouble, 
nor should we exaggerate it. It is ridiculous to charge me, who has gone so far in seeking 
friendship of being lukewarm in dealing with Pakistan’s offer. 


237 


ELE 


TERE SEN 
व ५ a 
my 


foe ty 


Ra Si SON er 240: 
ax 

2०22 गटर 
1 


ae et a i¢ no en ee ee ee 
3272 5 Se 27 कक 
ee PUSS Er 

OLR a Tp eet ry ata EEE कम 

22225 20%: 40:02 4००. atone a 


Se 
aS 


Set: 
90५ 


रब 


को 
re 


tal 
DA 
a 
setae 
23022 20020 
RN 


pues 
27222: 020: 
SEES 

Sree 


3 

रे 
ot Od aa te a बच १ 5 yee We . ere 
ratte eR 0००५४: Se ORS 


५ 


5 


SRE SRS a 59 Ste enti ety A een 
SRE RON SSR CNR Seats RAC SER ROSE SG 
ee : 
RN Se NRG OL ND 


2S a 


Nate 
RS 
SASS 


I am sure hon. Members realise that however, strenuous our efforts, our ultimate success 
will depend on improvement in the international economic environment within which we 
operate. Along with other developing countries, we have inherited an iniquitous economic 
order. I focussed attention on this in Melbourne and in Cancun and I am again taking the 
initiative in convening the New Delhi Consultations to strengthen the collective bargaining 
power of developing countries in securing justice and equity in the International economic 
system. We must pursue this with vigour. 


Hon. Members, we are not an island. Even island today are not cut off. We are battered 
by the storms which arise in other parts of the World, be they economic, military or 
whatever. We cannot control events but we can prepare ourselves not to be overwhelmed 
by them. That is my philosophy as an individual and for my nation. Strength has never 
come from comfort or the smooth path but from the most strenuous of efforts, and as 
individuals and as a nation, we must aim not merely at economic progress, vital and urgent 
though that is, but at building men and women who cannot easily be swept from their 
moorings, men and women who can hold their own and keep their heads high in the face 
of adversity and be able to seek from 1 opportunity and success. 


1 appeal to the movers of the 766 Amendments, the largest number ever, to withdraw 
them. I commend the Motion to the acceptance of the House. 


Thank you. 


ee 
o 


Paden ब 
222 
a 

A as eT 


3 PES KARAS 

“2 ee ८ 
SE oa oe 
ors CPLA a 
at eo ens, oad aos 


ee 


925 


Poe 
582 


ee 


५22 
४८.९ 
3: 
ma 
9 222 
ore 
४ 


see 
BES 


>> 


८ 
ane 


72222 
Bes 
et 


ds 
7202: 
a 
240५ 


semen 
er LS 
2 Se ee 


22222: 


Looking for a New Breakthrough* 


Mr. Speaker, Sir, a large number of Members have spoken on the President’s Address. 
Some have made good points, others have repeated their pet theories and others again have 
aired their prejudices. I am not taking the names of one group or other or even of one 
individual or another not because I do not appreciate what some have said or object to the 
criticism of others, but only because it is not possible to take all names and to take just a 
few might be discriminatory. Anyhow I thank all for their participation in the debate. 


In his Address, the President informs Parliament and the country about the state of the 
nation. This the Address has done with a high sense of responsibility and in a cogent, 
compact manner. 


Some hon. Members have accused it of being unduly rosy and optimistic. Nobody 
claims that conditions are ideal or that we are satisfied with what has been achieved. But, 
on the whole, the Address is objective and presents a balanced view of strengths as well 
as of shortcomings. But it does certainly highlight, as I think it should, the nation’s grit 
and achievement, in the face of tremendous difficulties. 


Several hon. Members have talked of a decline in production in the agricultural and 
industrial sectors and the low rate in the growth of the economy during 1982-83, compared 
with the previous year. Agricultural production has been lower but industrial production 
has not fallen. There has been some decline in the overall growth rate but two important 
factors have to be borne in mind, firstly, the rapid deterioration in the international economic 
situation and secondly the unprecedented drought of 1982 in vast areas of our own country. 


The Indian economy cannot be completely insulated from the international economic 
environment within which it has to operate. When world trade stagnates, our exports are 
also adversely affected. Aid is becoming increasingly costlier and more difficult to get. 
The whole world is passing through a period of economic turmoil marked by high rates 
of inflation and unemployment. Even in the industrially advanced countries the average 
rate of growth was only 1 per cent last year. The non-oil-exporting-developing countries 
were the worst hit, suffering from the inherent weaknesses of their own economies and 
also from the repercussions of recession in developed economies. During 1982, the inflation 
rate in non-oil-exporting-developing countries was as high as 35 per cent, and the average 
rate of growth only 1.8 per cent. In this year of all-round stagnation, India is one of the 


* Replying to the debate on the Motion of Thanks on the President’s Address, L.S. Deb., 1 March, 1983, cc. 422-32. 


239 


very few countries which has managed to keep the annual rate of inflation at the low level 
of 2.8 per cent while sustaining a reasonably satisfactory rate of growth. 


The growth rate of 2 per cent is less than that of the previous year, but here I come to 
the second point I made earlier which is that this growth rate has been achieved in a year 
of severe drought which affected 43 million hectares of land and 26 crore people. Our last 
drought was in 1979-80 when 38 million hectares of land and 22 crore people were affected. 
But if we compare the state of the economy now with that of the previous drought year, 
the House can judge between good and bad management. In a country like ours, heavily 
dependent on the monsoons, all that the Government can do in a year of monsoon failure 
is to try to mitigate its adverse impact through good management of the economy. This 
exactly what we did in 1982. That 1s how the country was saved from the debilitating impact 
of a great natural calamity. 


In 1979-80, in spite of a comfortable situation in food stocks and foreign exchange 
reserves, prices were allowed to increase by nearly 22 per cent. By contrast, in the drought 
year of 1982 the price rise has been only 2.8 per cent. There was nothing fortuitous about 
it. In fact, prices had begun to rise sharply in the middle of 1982. But the Government 
moved quickly to control this trend through appropriate monetary measures, timely imports, 
increased supply of essential commodities and vigorous efforts for grains procurement. In 
fact, the procurement of rice and wheat in 1982 was higher than in the previous year and 
this helped the steady flow of foodgrains through the public distribution system. Again, in 
the previous drought year of 1979-80 the national income actually fell by 4.8 per cent. 
and industrial production by 1-4 per cent. By contrast, in the drought year 1982 there has 
been an increase in industrial production of 4.5 per cent and an increase in the national 
income of 2 per cent. What is more, improvements in infrastructure facilities-power coal, 
railway—were maintained, the tempo of investment has been increased and plan outlays 
augmented substantially. This is the difference between good and bad management. 


I have never expected bouquets from the Opposition, but only political prejudice, and 
perhaps sheer habit will throw brickbats at such a record. On the economic front, the picture 
is neither illusory nor exaggerated, as an hon. Member has alleged. 


An hon. Member regretted the inadequacy of grain stocks. On the Ist February, 1983 
these stocks were 12.5 million tonnes. This is higher than the stocks in February 1981 or 
1982. There are 2.76 lakh recognised fair-price shops, of which 78 pez cent are in the rural 
areas, covering about 52 crore people. I do concede that the system is not perfect. It needs 
greater improvement. Whenever difficulties are brought to our notice, we rush stocks and 
try to remedy the situation. 


Many hon. Members have spoken of the problems of their own States. Sir, this is hardly 
the forum where we can go into the specific problems of each different State. I know that 
States are facing difficulties. Recently we have sent some grain to Tamil Nadu as well as 
to some other States who asked for it. 


Another Member thought that our success in checking prices was due not to our own 
efforts but because prices were falling all over the world. Frankly, Sir, I do not know which 


PRS BR ORR SPENSER NON ae 
ne SEES Serena Se eee ate beats Orel 
4 77702: 52 0777: 72877: :102 te 
Lae रा ० ८6५०4 7 74777 EAS FAD 1125 

PRTG eMart जा 24202 0 ::एटटट: SON ony eh 


entrees 
se 


ग्डो 

soos 
ae १ 

परम 
१ ae 


ae 


पर 


न 
५, 
e 


world our friend was referring to! It is no secret that inflation is raging in Europe and in 
several countries of Asia, Africa and America—both North and South. Runaway prices are 
the major problem in many countries. In some countries where prices of certain essential 
commodities are low, the goods are just not available, resulting in long unsatisfied queues, 
which I have seen with my own eyes. Another hon. Member remarked that the rise in 
consumer prices ‘was much higher than in wholesale prices. This does happen. But the 
rate of increase even in consumer prices has been brought under check. This year it was 8 
per cent in December 1982, compared to 12.7 in December, 1981. Public memory 18 said 
to be short. But we expect parliamentary memory to be somewhat longer. Have our 
opponents of the Right and the Left, who were components or supporters of the Janata 
Party, so soon forgotten ? 


It was amusing but not perhaps unexpected from a party known for its inconsistency 
to criticise our family planning efforts as being inadequate. Need I remind the House that 
it was the Janata Party which completely scuttled the family planning programme through 
vicious and false propaganda and when in power even obliterated its name. It may interest 
the House to know that in the last months the rate of growth of our population has, for the 
very first time, come down to below 2 per cent ie. 1.9 per cent. I sincerely hope that no 
interested group will once more mislead the people to reverse this downward trend. 


The Budget proposals are fresh in your minds. The Finance Minister has had an 
extremely difficult and unenviable task. But the Budget is consistent with our national 
policy. It has novel proposals. It introduces new measures for reforming our financial 
administration, all of which will have a long-term impact on our economy. This Budget 
and some other earlier proposals will mobilise a reasonably large amount of resources. 
There is no escape from this, because we cannot lose the momentum of planned 
development. The basic tenet of this Budget and for that matter of our national economic 
policy, has been to keep up Plan expenditure. The Central Plan expenditure in the last year’s 
Budget was to increase by more than 27 per cent. This year the increase will be more than 
26 per cent. Whatever else we have to cut and economise on, we have tried to protect our 
Plan. Even so, I am aware that we have had to give up many worthwhile and even necessary 
projects of the States and even of Central Ministries. I might say that some of these projects 
were very dear to my heart. Whatever may be our difficulties-drought and inflation, 
international recession and balance of payments—we have ensured that we are not deflected 
from our path of long-term development towards self-reliance. Within the plan, our most 
important priorities are the infrastructure, which I have already mentioned, such as power, 
railways, coal, steel, transport and above all petroleum. In agriculture, we emphasise 
irrigation, fertilisers and other services—special programmes for small and marginal farmers 
to increase their productivity and other measures directly related to help the poorer and 
the weaker sections. 


To maintain this effort, we have to raise resources. This the Finance Minister has tried 
to do in a non-inflationary manner. Those who have more must pay more. If market prices 
are too high, providing large profits for some commodities, part of these profits should 
come back to the exchequer. If business and individuals spend less and save and invest 
more, they will also be taxed less. Everyone of us has to share this mammoth task of 


CEA BAF 0 Nel जज Mel Ae KANON A RD AO Oe Sol दिन GS Aan Se Ce eR nd os Be ee ee eee 


2 
ey 


2 55 
10 ७ 
a Ie 
ce # rat ia 
12322 Ses 
DEL Dl eee is 


Eee ae Rh niente Gentes 
ee 
Soe 0 Se 


2 


Ss 
ee 


national development, by saving more, by investing in productive assets, by working harder 
and becoming more productive and efficient. We also want increases in outlays, plan or 
fon-plan, public or private, to create greater demand for domestic products. We cannot 
stop all imports. But we must protect our domestic industry, many of whose problems are 
those of development. But I must also say, Sir, that much of our domestic industry, having 
been protected so long, is becoming more and more reluctant to stand on its own feet and 
to face competition. So, that is another aspect which has to be looked into. It is a testimony 
to our policies of industrialisation that large domestic capacities have been built in a wide 
variety of products which are also fairly competitive internationally. Over the last few years 
our exports of engineering goods have increased rapidly. The Budget has given some more 
incentives for exports. We want our industries to rise to the challenge, increase their 
efficiency and expand their production. 


To belittle our achievements is to denigrate not my party or my Government but our 
valiant and hard-working people—our farmers, our workers, scientists, technicians and many 
others. 


As the watchdog of the national economy, Parliament has often criticised our public 
sector enterprises. Even our colleagues of the Left, who ideologically claim to support the 
public sector, have sometimes somehow undermined its morale. Now that this sector’s 
performance has improved, let us not deny it the appreciation and credit which are its due. 
Let us urge the workers and the executives to keep up their good work. 


We have been unjustly accused of being anti-worker. This is most unfair. We are 
sympathetic to their problems and hardships and they have usually been cooperative in 
spite of many difficulties. This charge is levelled by those who want workers to be anti- 
Government, not for the good of the worker but perhaps for their own ends. I am grateful 
to the workers who have refused to become their tools. This does not mean that we are 
oblivious of the hardships caused by lock-outs and other such steps. They also have to be . 
looked at and dealt with. 


ESAS oo ERR Nair naan epee दम na pore ee ; 
SE SRR Sis Sr cars Oa 2 /0000007%7002%% 


oe 

We are constantly on the look-out for new ideas. It is with this view that I have invited 22% 

se . . . . . ‘ ad Bea 
five eminent economists as advisers. Their work will not overlap in any way with the nS 
functions of the Planning Commission. A rather superficial comment was printed in a oe 


newspaper—‘‘we have enough advice; what is needed is more performance’. Does one 
replace the other ? On the contrary, one is dependent on the other. Everywhere there 1s a 
search for new ideas, new ways out for problems and complex crisis. The condition of the 
global economy is grave. If oil prices go up, there 15 one kind of problem, if they start 
coming down, the world is caught in another kind of spin. International trade is in shambles. 


REED 
EN SAR 


Developing countries like ours are the hardest hit. I am sure, that the eminent economists ee 
will come up with constructive ideas for short-term as well as long-term solutions. I have a 
often expressed myself on certain ideologies. Members of the Opposition, one group or . 
another, are deeply committed to various ideologies. But I am looking for a new break- 
through, not—a rehash of old ideologies. aS 


Another charge which is particularly off the mark is that we have moved from our 
objective of self-reliance. Self-reliance.and the strengthening of our country’s economy 


a ०.४...) 


ढक 


242 


and fibre are the basis of our decisions and actions as a Government. Many of the economic 
views and philosophies which are held by certain people in the Opposition, have been 
derived from theories propounded abroad, where circumstances and conditions are totally 
different and even there these theories can hardly claim much success. Our approach is to 
find our own formulations and solutions. 


The Government has also been accused of not being serious about dealing with 
corruption. Corruption drains away a good portion of funds. It undermines the moral fibre 
and weakens us as a nation. 


It is unfortunate that an impression is sought to be created that India is a corrupt country. 
This is a slur against the nation. Several opposition parties conveniently overlook the 
complaint, which they themselves have made against one another, and propagate that the 
Congress alone has corruption. We are fighting corruption and we do take action against 
those whose image, we have reason to believe, is not good. But, often enough, such people 
are encouraged by the Opposition. There are no two opinions that corruption is an evil, 
but so is the political use sought to be made of it. We are determined to eradicate this evil 
of corruption. (/nterruptions) There are many instances. I cannot go into the list just now. 


2c 2k > ec ae akc a oe oe 


I do not want to argue with you here*. There have been many instances which are 
quite well-known. 


ae मंद 2k मै: मंद ae ae aha 


I am not going to yield to the hon Member.** I am quite sure of my ground on this. I 
do not make wild statements. 


fc मर akc me ae aie ie 2 मं 


I have justified it on many occasions.*** There have been some thoughtful 
observations...(/nterruptions). This does not mean that if the Opposition shouts, what they 
are shouting is true. It does not mean that what yellow journalism writes 1s true. We have 
our own ways of finding out and acting accordingly. I should like to know whether any of 
the parties present here who have been in Government in many States have taken any such 
action. I do not know of any such instances. 


On the domestic political scene, there have been some thoughtful observations, 
particularly from colleagues of my party. The growth of regionalism is a matter of grave 
concern. It has been the policy of the Congress to provide adequate scope for the expression 
of the regional personality and I strongly adhere to this view. But this personality has to 
function within the national perspective. 


* Replying to Shri Satyasadhan Chakraborty’s remiark, “Not a single instance”. 
** Referring to Shri Satyasadhan Chakraborty who said, “I want a single instance”. 
*** Replying to Shri Satyasadhan Chakraborty’s observation, ‘‘You have to justify what you say”. 


» 


Some people have begun to talk loosely about the breaking up of the country. This 
“cquntry is not going to break up. This Parliament and my party.and, I am sure, all parties 
here will never let this happen. But if any party, group or person, concentrates too much 
on the problems of a particular region in isolation from the problems of the country as a 
whole then tensions will be aggravated. 


The House has had a detailed debate on Assam. I do not want to go into this question 
all over again. As I said last week, the need is for all sections to curb their emotions and 
come together to find solutions. There is no problem which cannot be solved amicably 
and through earnest discussions. Even if some young people today are consumed by anger, 
as I said, I continue to regard them as my children and the children of this country. But, 


more important, can I put aside my responsibility to my country, to its unity and its 
integrity? 


A Congress Member spoke with great feeling and conviction on the need for the revival 
of the spirit of brotherhood in Punjab. If I have understood Sikhism right, its basic tenet is 
love and brotherhood among all people. The most moving of the hymns of Shri Guru Nanak 
Dev are those where he says that Hindus and Muslims are alike. And in our country Hindus, 
Muslims, Sikhs, Christians, Buddhists, Jains, Parsis and Jews are all equal. 


Unfortunately, some sections are whipping up communalism. A large number of 
communal incidents are basically the result of economic or other rivalries and fears. Some 
mischievous elements immediately exploit them for communal and political ends. Some 
think by stirring trouble they will perhaps have a chance to become leaders. 


SI ee 00076 000 066000 
52222 20002 22220 OE Tet RC RRS 2: 20072 20207 एक 77222: 


Some mention was made just now about Memberships, Directorships etc. of certain 
Boards. We are reviewing this matter and I agree that there are many aspects on which : 
urgent measures must be taken; some are being considered and other suggestions are 
welcome. My appeal to the House and to the hon. Members 18 that whether inside the 
House or outside, this is not the time to speak or to do anything which could spark off 
new incidents or tensions. You may not consider something to be aggressive or even 
communal, but in this delicate situation one just does not know how other people will react. 
I am sorry to say that there 1s a growth of certain extremist organisations amongst the 
Hindus as well as amongst the Muslims, and this is not helping the cause of harmony for 
any section. 


The Home Minister* was telling me just now that the Mandal Commission’s Report 
is being discussed with the Chief Ministers. 


It has been remarked that we should overhaul our Intelligence machinery. We are 
looking into this question. I myself feel deeply concerned. It is the same as regards the 
training of police forces to be more Sensitive to situations and to public feelings and above 
all not to be swayed from their duty of protecting the people, so that they earn their trust 
and confidence. We are taking some steps in this direction. 


* Shri Prakash Chand B. Sethi. 


Some Members have spoken about non-alignment. I heard mention again of “genuinely 
non-aligned”. I had thought that this phrase which had occasioned so much ridicule would 
now be avoided. When the so-called “genuine non-alignment” was in practice, the rest of 
the non-aligned world were ‘genuinely’ perplexed as to our ‘genuine’ intentions. Some 
have repeated the Western (in which non-Westem followers of the West are included) 
propaganda that India is isolated. Are we to make up our minds and act according to what 
we consider right and just, or unthinkingly accept the opinions of others ? I do not want 
to remind hon. Members of the number of occasions on which we have borne the brunt of 
aggressive, even malicious accusations from many sides but ultimately it was our 
assessment which turned out to be the correct one. And even today, in fact at every non- 
aligned conference—if I remember, long before the time that I was in Government—there 
have been tremendous pressures from outside to somehow derail the movement, to 
somehow create tension and disagreement and to be able to say that the movement has 
failed. 


So, I hope that whatever the personal or party opinions of hon. Members may be, they, 
and indeed all Indians, will give full cooperation to make the forthcoming Non-Aligned 
meeting a success. Its effectiveness can do much towards the solution of issues which are 
vital to the world—Disarmament and peace, and cooperation and development. 


Once more, I thank you all and commend the President’s Address for the acceptance 
of the House. 


245 


Challenges of Economic Backwardness* 


Mr. Deputy Chairman, Sir, many hon. Members have spoken in this debate and I am 
sure they have added to the sum total of human wisdom. I thank them all. 


Some Members of the Opposition are so wedded to certain concepts that they are unable 
to appreciate or understand any other. An hon. Member remarked that the President’s 
Address did not mention a single important aspect of national life. Can anything be more 
astounding ? What is our first priority? Surely, the reduction leading to the ending of poverty 
and economic backwardness. Is there any remedy besides economic development and the 
infrastructure which enables the production of goods to meet the growing basic needs of 
the people ? The Address emphasises these aspects. 


Some other hon. Members commented that the average growth rate of 
5 per cent of GNP in the last three years is hardly an achievement. Comparisons are said 
to be odious, but sometimes unavoidable. Let us compare the three years of the Congress 
rule between 1980 and 1982 with those of the Janata-Lok Dal regimes of 1977 to 1979. It 
is well-known that before 1977, we had succeeded in controlling the rate of inflation, 
maintained a high rate of export, had accumulated a considerable amount of foreign 
exchange reserves and also left large stocks of grains in our godowns. When we came 
back in 1980, these situations had been reversed.This is also not unknown. 1979-80 was 
drought year; so was 1982-83. In terms of the areas affected, last year was worse than 
1979-80. The figures show the difference that proper economic management makes. I know 
that the hon. Members are bored with figures. But I must read out some figures and bother 
them on this occasion. The average annual growth rate of GNP at 1970-71 prices, in the 
years 1977-78 and 1979-80, was 3.3 per cent. 


In 1980-81 to 1982-83 it was 5.1 per capita National income at 1970-71 prices: 0.9 in 
1977-80 and 2.7 in 1980-83. Index of agricultural production : 0.8 in 1977-80 and 5.9 in 
1980-83. Index of industrial production: 3.1 in 1977-80 and 6.7 in 1980-83. The wholesale 
price index on point to point basis has been brought down from 22.2 per cent on January 
12, 1980, to 14.8 per cent on January 10, 1981, to 6.4 per cent on January 16, 1982 and to 
2.8 per cent on January, 15, 1983. The rate of increase in the consumer price index is also 
declining. From 12.7 per cent in December 1981 it fell to 8 per cent in December 1982. 


Sir, We have no magic wand to create miracles overnight. We must be judged by what 
we are doing and how effective we have been in controlling these trends. We have been 


* Replying to the debate on the Motion of Thanks on the President’s Address, R.S. Deb., 1 March, 1983, 
००. 296-304. | 


primarily concerned with the prices of essential commodities which touch all sections of 
our people. For instance, the increase in grain price worth 16.3 per cent in 1979-80; this 
has been steadily lowered. Last year there was countrywide drought which I have mentioned 
earlier. We also gave large increases in procurement prices and as a result issue prices were 
also higher. Normally prices would have shot up, yet the rate of increase was 10.9 per 
cent much lower than what it was in 1979-80. The wholesale prices of pulses which had 
increased by 42 per cent in 1980-81 have actually fallen in the last two years. In 1981-82 
they came down by 11.4 per cent and in 1982, up to January of this year, decreased further 
by 2.5 per cent. The sugar group price went up by as much as 73.4 per cent in 1979-80. 
During 1981-82, this price actually fell by 33.4 per cent and in the current financial year 
by a further 4.6 per cent. However, I am aware of the hardship of sugarcane and other 
farmers in some parts of the country. It is a complicated situation closely connected with 
trends in other parts of the world. 


We have set up elaborate monitoring mechanisms for the revised 20-point programme. 
Targets for each point have been worked out at the national and also at the State and district 
levels. Special agencies have been set up in districts and blocks for implementation. This 
took some time. Nevertheless the results between April 1982 and January 1983 have been 
quite impressive. More than 18 lakh families below the poverty line have been helped under 
the IRDP programme. Under the NREP programme, out of the targetted 33 crore man- 
days for the year already about 24 crore man-days of employment have been generated. 
Four lakh and 20 thousand acres of surplus land have been distributed, 11 lakh Scheduled 
Caste families and 8 lakh Scheduled Tribe families have been assisted. Twenty-nine 
thousand villages without drinking water have now been supplied with at least one such 
water source. 6.80 lakh house-sites have been provided to the rural landless. Fifteen 
thousand villages have been electrified. 2.3 lakh pump sets have been energised with 
electricity. One hundred and sixteen primary health centres at block level and 9034 sub- 
centres have been sanctioned. Our target of 4 million for additional enrolment in primary 
schools has been exceeded by 36,000. One lakh and forty-one thousand adult education 
centres are now functioning with an enrolment of over 4 million. These figures are based 
on the latest reports which have been received after the President’s speech; that is why 
there may be some discrepancy in the figures. 


We are bringing down the rate of increase in our imports. In 1979-80 and 1980-81, 
the increase in imports was between 32 and 38 per cent. In 1981-82, it was brought down 
to 8.9 per cent. In 1982-83, taking into account the net oil imports, the increase in total 
imports is likely to be around only 6 per cent. In fact in the petroleum sector, after deducting 
exports, the value of net imports of crude oil and petroleum products is expected to come 
down by about Rs. 600 crore in 1982-83. We intend to reduce oil imports even further in 
1983-84. One hon. Member has said-I can only say that he displayed his ignorance by his 
statement—that we are neglecting domestic oil production. Nothing could be farther from 
the truth. 


Earlier I have stated quite categorically that our borrowing from the IMF does not in 
any way affect our national economic policies which are laid down in Parliament. We made 


247 


it very clear to the Fund authorities that we would not accept any conditions which might 
conflict with these policies. The IMF borrowing was necessary for the additional foreign 
exchange to sustain our pace of development. The alternative was to borrow from 
international commercial banks which would have cost much more. In today’s world, there 
is very little scope for India to get large foreign bilateral aid because every donor country 
knows that we do not accept aid with strings. Our aim is self-reliance and we pursue it 
with determination. It is not correct to imply that our debt service burden will become 
unmanageable, because we are using these borrowings to increase our production capacity 
which will expand our exports and also reduce imports. International institutions like the 
World Bank have assessed our debt service burden and estimate that it is well below that 
of many other developing countries. 


We have been blamed for not dealing with corruption. We go into complaints and we 
have taken action against those—at whatever level—where it is necessary. I am not aware 
of any other party doing so, even though they themselves have been levelling charges 
against one another. What is mystifying is that people removed by us for unethical conduct 
are immediately embraced by the Opposition in one way or another. The other fact is that 
some persons are singled out for attack by journals and parties and the most fantastic 
charges continue to be heaped on them. 


Sir, there is nothing wrong in loving or being proud of one’s region. But if such feelings 
override concern for the Motherland, it will affect the country’s unity and integrity, and 
what is more, it will deprive the region itself of the many opportunities and advantages 
which come from belonging to a larger unit. 


This House has already had a debate on Assam and has expressed its gnef and sympathy 
for all sufferers. The situation there has caused me great sadness of heart. Bloodshed, 
killings, sabotage have taken place on an unprecedented scale after the elections. All 
sections have been affected. Many people find it politically useful to attribute this entirely 
to the holding of elections. I am saying this not in anger or bitterness, nor for recrimination 
or fault-finding, but unless we see events in perspective, 1 will be very difficult.to ease 
tensions and help the people. The agitation in Assam began in 1979. In the 1980 
Parliamentary elections, candidates were prevented from filing their nominations. And let 
us not forget that in the intervening period, long before the announcement of the present 
elections, large groups including the religious and linguistic minorities, the Plains tribals, 
the tea garden labour, Nepalese and even various sections of the Assamese themselves, 
had been subjected to harassment, and this had given rise to apprehensions and fear. 
Henceforth a small group did its utmost to bring the Government’s work to a standstill, 
threatening Assam Government employees and others with dire consequences should they 
co-operate with the Administration. Deliberate attempts were made to paralyse the normal 
functioning of the State. Also, let the crescendo of violence, as someone has called it, not 
Cloud a distinctive feature of the 1983 election—substantial sections, including sections of 
the Assamese people themselves were prepared to and did go to vote, braving danger to 
themselves and their families. It is unfortunate that polling was disrupted by attacking 
booths, snatching ballot boxes, etc. In every agitation some extremists become active. 
However, I do not wish to dwell on these matters. The situation is too heart-rending and 


:०००००८०००००८८०५७००:००८०:८८००००-००८०८२२7४०००८२०८०::४८०८८८०००८८०३ ३८००० ८० ०४४०२००२८०००:०7०६ Seinen 227 ४५ paar 


TIES 27%: 228 

he 5% anatase’ 2 O J 

repre esieoar neat oae aan aN Hee CaLiee eR ND rat EMDR EEE RERUN PRON RRA PSE DA SRR Riva Dare ee 
Sierra terme ceo eee. ee RS NN RT ee RN me 


tense. This is the time for calm and collective thinking, for understanding and reconciliation. 
There is no problem on earth which cannot be solved through discussions. We have a 
responsibility to all the people of Assam. We must ensure the safety of all our citizens. 
But, over and above, there is an even higher and greater responsibility for the security, 
integrity and unity of our country. 


The same applies to other agitations and tensions. That the communal situation has 
not been dealt with at length in the President’s Address is not for lack of concern. The 
minorities know of my deep anxiety for their safety and welfare. Much of the trouble is 
politically motivated and today extremist organisations, Hindu and Muslim, are vocal, active 
and aggressive. We must be careful not to spark off new incidents. All secular-minded 
people, who are willing to subjugate their political ambitions for a while, should join in 
putting out this fire of communalism. Casteism is equally divisive. And any divisive 
tendency weakens the whole. 


Communalism is a blot on our nation. It lets loose uncontrollable passions, turning 
friends into fiends. It must be rooted out and this needs not only administrative steps but 
a concerted effort by all those who have the true interests of our country at heart. India is 
not just a stretch of land. India stands for tolerance, for compassion, for fellow feeling. 
India believes in diversity in unity. 


An hon. Member recommended a Commission for Women. It 1s undeniable that 
something has to be done. If Commissions could change mental attitudes, our society would 
have been transformed long ago. Various legislative and administrative measures have been 
taken for the protection of women and for their advancement. Others are under 
consideration. The suggestions of the Joint Committee of Parliament are under 
Government’s examination. But the problem of women is much more complex. Laws are 
not enough. We need nothing short of a complete change in the thinking of men and of 
women themselves. Employers and teachers, writers and film makers, text books and story 
books, our social customs and even our vocabulary—all these have to be tackled. The first 
step is the awareness of the need, the realisation that the level of society cannot rise above 
the level of its women. This is what Mahatmayi repeated to us time and again. Women 
must not wait for help but exert themselves in their own cause because it is not only their 
cause but the cause of men and of humanity too. It has become a hardy perennial for some 
of the Opposition, especially those who opposed the entire concept in earlier times, to 
educate us on non-alignment. We are accused of “inclining” towards the Soviet Union. We 
do not incline, as I have said before. We stand straight. The Soviet Union has shown 
understanding and has stood by us in times of need. When a country does something in 
our interest, should we deny them our appreciation? Non-alignment does not mean non- 
acknowledgement of friendship. But, what is the point at issue? The point is that we have 
not allowed friendship and co-operation, or for that matter disagreement and hostility, to 
come in the way of our independence of assessment of international or national issues or 
of pursuing our own direction. Our policy is to protect and promote India’s national 
interests. From this we have not deviated. To this we shall remain steadfast. 


Propaganda against India, against non-alignment, against the public sector, against my 
father and even me personally 1s not new. Shall I give you the latest instance of how 


249 


-deliberately false stories are spread to malign us ? In the US Pentagon’s publication the 
“Atinual Military Posture Statement for FY 1982”, India was shown as having large number 
of Soviet Military Advisers. Now this is not true. We protested and we were assured that 
the error would be corrected. However, we find that in the new publication for “FY 1983” 
and also in Mr. Weinberger’s statement before the Senate this baseless report is repeated. 
In this new book on ‘Leaders’, former President Nixon has generously given away my 
home town, the town of Allahabad, to Pakistan. I was shocked and stunned when I was 
told the other day that there is a whispering campaign that I was in league with the RSS. 
How can anyone believe this? Who else in this country has so consistently fought the 
ideology of the RSS and the Jana Sangh? They not only harm the Minorities. I am 
convinced that they are doing incalculable harm to Hinduism by changing its philosophical 
liberalism and breadth of vision. 


In less than a week, New Delhi will host the largest ever gathering of Heads of State/ 
Government of any time. So for 71 Heads of State/Government have informed us of their 
personal participation. This is a great honour for India particularly as we were requested 
unanimously by all members of the Non-aligned Movement. The Conference poses an 
enormous challenge which we accepted because of our firm commitment to the cause of 
non-alignment. It is hardly necessary for me to stress the magnitude of the responsibility 
we Shall have to shoulder. This Summit is especially significant in the current troubled 
international situation. We hope that its deliberations will make some contribution to 
solution of the problems of peace, disarmament and development. Co-operation amongst 
the developing countries will enable us to together work for a more just economic and 
social order. I am sure that the people of India, and particularly the citizens of Delhi, will 
show their traditional warmth so that all the national leaders and delegates return with happy 
memories of their stay in India. 


If I am called an “optimist’, I plead guilty to the charge.We shall always remain 
optimists because our Government, and I personally, have full hope in our country and 
unbounded faith in our people. 


Sir, I thank the hon. Members who have participated in the debate and I commend the 
President’s Address for acceptance by this House. 


250 


Leading the Nation on the Road to Progress* 


Just the day before yesterday we had a long discussion on the unfortunate and tragic 
happenings in our neighbourhood in Punjab and Haryana. It was my impression then that 
we had all agreed that we should try to create an atmosphere in this count, which would 
be more conducive to different elements working together; and that this could only be done 
when we all join forces to fight all communalist tendencies, all casteist tendencies and we 
above all secessionist and fissiparous tendencies. Unfortunately that debate does not seem 
to have left much impression on many hon. Members here. 


The President’s Address is not basically dealing with these subjects, although these 
are the background and are very important; I shall come back to them at a later stage. I 
have referred to this only because of the irregular disturbance which took place just before 
I got up to speak. 


ic मर अं मैप > मं मंद भर मर 


Mr. Speaker, Sir, in this House we, those sitting on this side, the Government, do not 
expect praise, but we do say that proven facts cannot be disputed. I could have gone into 
much greater detail, but fortunately my colleague, the Finance Minister, presented the 
Budget yesterday and he has given the detailed figures. So, I need not go into them. But 
even at the risk of boring my friends here, I am going to repeat some of the things he 


sald. 


Now, the most important fact of this year and these last four years has been the big 
increase in our development effort year by year, not only in physical terms but in terms of 
the number of people covered and sections of population specially helped. In the Sixth 
Plan as a whole the growth of the G.D.P. (Gross Domestic Product) is expected to be 5.2 
per cent which is then highest in any Plan. Financially, the Plan outlay has been increasing 
substantially year by year and this year it will be 25 per cent higher than in the previous 
year. Our sound fiscal and monetary policies have created a sound macro environment for 
growth, but we are also concentrating on the vigorous implementation of our programmes 
sO as 10 give greater purchasing power to all sections, specially the poorer sections and 
alleviating the hardship of our middle classes. 


2 400K ke ak ae मर 


* Replying to the debate on the Motion of Thanks on the President's Address, L.S. Deb., 1 March 1984, cc. 513-41. 


251 


ie 
y 


dbl! 


De ed ee 

Sen aie ae orate 

70:40 20:02, 
cs 


<5 
RAK os 
९८2 : 
RE TE Stein 


It is about the Indian economy.* If you were not travelling so much, perhaps you would 
“kpow more about it. 


As for the coverage, let us see what we have been able to do for various sections. But 
I shall go into the details only on two or three of the most deprived sections. I was 
astonished to hear my old friend, Shri Banarsidas saying that the purchasing power of 
farmers has gone down. The very fact that more and more farmers are using in larger and 
larger quantities various modern inputs and are thus able to produce more, contradicts this 
allegation. You néed only compare the deal which our farmers got during the years 
1977-79 and since 1980. I should like to read out these figures. 


We have substantially increased procurement and support prices of agricultural 
commodities. Since January, 1980, wheat has increased by 32.2 per cent, paddy 38.9 per 
cent, pulses 40.71 per cent, cotton 45 per cent, ground nut 6 per cent. Sugarcane prices 
have not been allowed of fall and wherever there was any remote suspicion that there might 
be trouble, we have gone ahead to give support prices and so on. By way of direct help, 
we have reduced fertiliser prices by 7.5 per cent in 1983, we expanded short-term credit 
by 47 per cent and long and medium term credit by 27 per cent. Farmers, specially the 
small and marginal farmers and landless labour have been the focus of our attention. It is 
obvious that all of us owe our very lives to their production. In fact, I think it is no 
exaggeration to say that our Government and this particular Government has done more 
for them than has ever been done before. 


We are trying out the crop insurance scheme on a pilot basis. Irrigation and dry farming 
have been special concerns of mine and I should like to give some figures about irrigation. 
The addition made in 1981-82 was 2.2 million hectares; in 1982-83, 1983-84 and 1984- 
85 each year 2.3 million hectares. In just these four years more than 9 million hectares 
have been added. And it is most unfair criticism to say that we fell short of the annual 


target by a small percentage. We had, I admit, kept our target rather high. If there had not ~ 


been drought, I am sure, we would have overtaken it. 


So far as dry farming is concerned, a national scheme for dry farming was formulated 
and launched; more than 4000 water-sheds identified and crops and practices suitable for 
them have been devised. One hon. Member spoke—may be more than one spoke-of our 
importing foodgrains as if this was some big secret we were hiding and which they had 
managed to unearth. Sir, I have spoken on this openly and publicly. As you know, we did 
not import foodgrains because of any compulsion but because of abundant caution. This 
is nothing new. I have spoken on this the iast time we imported grain. On both occasions 
we were able to buy at a time when prices were low in the other countries. Whatever the 
monsoon and weather forecasts may be, one has to be careful and be prepared in case of 
trouble or of drought. We should not find ourselves begging as happened in 1966. I should 
like to remind the House that when I became Prime Minister in 1966, it was a time of 
famine—not just drought but famine. When I toured the States of Bihar, Maharashtra and 
at that time Mysore, the only point that farmers put to me was : Don’t bother about relief; 


* Replying to Dr. Subramaniam Swamy’s question “Is it about the Indian economy?” 


252 


३, 
pastas 
2 


ea Y oe" 
Se 
Sona 


22:52 
+जह ०१० 


a 


पर ee 


x 

< 

sees 
7 


re 
meee 


au brat CREECH OER rte NRT 
RTE Sa REED AES 5१००७ ०) 5०४७० OR 


Neon 
ne 
se 


SESE पाए 


Se career 2270० 


eee 


22222 
ms 
es 


Oe 
is - 
22:22 


, "कप 0० 
112 2027400,००९८4९०८० 
SSS 


don’t bother about anything. But do something so that when there is drought in future, we 
should be stronger in facing it. So, since then, this has been my major concern. Now, this 
time in 1982-83, there was drought which, I think, has been called the country’s very worst 
affecting hundreds of districts. Its impact was not felt by the people, and the Opposition 
was denied the opportunity to raise a hue and cry as they would have liked to do. 


2 a जैर me i भर ake af a 


That is because of our success in managing the crisis. Yes, there were good buffers/ 
stock from internal procurement and we augmented them by importing 4 million tonnes 
in 1982-83 and 2.7 million tonnes in 1983-84. There was no knowing last year how this 
year’s monsoon would turn out. So, it is an example of taking advance care as any good 
housewife would do for her household. 


a ai ok ak मंद मंद me a ae 


Now, I mention ceriain special categories. It is not that these categories are more special 
than others or as someone has said “more equal than others.” I think, we are all equal. But 
some categories have suffered over the centuries. I am not talking merely of our 
programmes for the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes because they have been 
discussed in detail and the figures are known. There have been questions and answers about 
them in this House. I am speaking for some of those who are not so well-known. One 
such category is that of fishermen. We have formed 5,331 fishermen’s cooperatives. We 
are giving them credit for the purchase of boats and equipment.We have set up training 
institutions. We have reserved 5 kilometre zones from the shore for traditional fishermen, 
so that those who are now going in for deep-sea fishing will not harm the interests of the 
poorer fishermen. We have developed infrastructure facilities—roads, schools and welfare 
activities. There is a Group Insurance Scheme. The Central Government has approved a 
scheme of subsidising 50 per cent of the premium for accident insurance. The remaining 
5() per cent is to be provided by the States. Rs. 39 lakhs has been provided in 1983-84 for 
this scheme. The scheme is applicable to marine as well as inland fishermen. Originally, 
we had announced it only for the sea going ones. But some months ago, my attention was 
drawn to the fact that river and lake fishermen were left out. So, we have included them 
also. 


We have also asked the States to create a Natural Calamity Distress Relief Fund. 


A large section of our poor people are weavers. We believe in encouraging handloom 
production. Not only is this the means of livelihood for millions of people but it is an old 
Indian tradition of which we are proud and which we want to retain in all its traditional 
beauty. In 1978-79, only 126 million sq. metres were produced by the handloom sector. 
In 1983-84, 350 million sq. metres are expected to be produced. 


There is a special scheme for hill area development which is more liberal in its terms. 
Cooperatives are being encouraged. The coverage of cooperatives at the beginning of the 
Sixth Plan was only 30 per cent. By 1983-84, we expect to achieve a coverage of 52 per 


cent. The level of the annual outlay is being increased from about Rs. 16 crore in 1979-80 
‘to about Rs, 33 crore in 1984-85. 


Many hon. Members have spoken about unemployment. This problem is causing great 
anxiety to us all. We have taken some measures earlier and we continue to press on with 
them. There is no doubt that, as an hon. Member mentioned just now, the increase in 
population is not helping this or any of our programmes for development. 


Apart from our regular plans which cover all these sections, hon. Members will 
remember that we called out from them 20-points. They are to focus attention on those 
aspects of the Plan which we felt needed much more concentrated attention and which 
tended to get pushed into the background by bigger programmes, probably unintentionally. 


The thrust of this 20-point programme is higher production and direct help to weaker 
sections, specially in creating employment in our rural areas. No programme has evoked 
so much enthusiasm and expectations amongst our people as this one. Is it working ideally 
? I must confess, no. But it is making an impact and I think, this is what you can expect 
of any programme. No matter how good our intentions are, no matter how much money 
we have, and we do not have enough money, we can only do our utmost to take the 
programme forward and to try to reach more and more people with each step that we take. 


The allocation for the 20-point programme is being raised by 47 per cent next year. 
Whenever. I get grievances whether from MPs or MLAs or other people about the 
programme not working well, we look into them. The State Governments are monitoring 
the programme; the Central Government is monitoring it. Apart from that, we also send 
out our own people to let us know where there are shortfalls or mistakes. They do find 
shortfalls; they do sometimes find discrepancies in numbers. As you know, I do not hide 
these things. The programme on the whole is going well. What we need 1s greater people’s 
participation. 


In many places where the programme is not functioning so well, it is because the people 
do not even know about it. They do not know their rights; they do not know what they 
can ask for. And, of course, a major point to keep in view is that even if they do know, we 
cannot possibly cover 680 million people all at once. Therefore, those who are left out of 
the first or the second or the third groups of people who take advantage are bound to feel 
discouraged and frustrated. I can only appeal to the hon. Members in the Opposition not 
to encourage the sort of discouragement and frustration which will obstruct the programme 
itself. 


ae ak ke feat ak 


That is the whole point now.* That is exactly the point. The Opposition does not believe 
in Programmes which will help the poor people. They do not believe...(/nterruptions) 


* Responding to Dr. Subramaniam Swamy’s remark, ‘“‘We do not believe in the Programme”. 


८:02: ag Mee 7: 77077: 77:72 MI 076 


WEES 
572 7०७७, 7०१०८८ 


५5: 
He ee 


That is why we are facing this extremely difficult situation. For three years, the whole 
talk of the Opposition has been ‘We do not believe in these Programmes. We do not want 
to implement the Plans. Therefore, we are going to roll it up”, which is what they did. 
These are not my words, but theirs. Iam merely quoting them. 


eho ae ah a ae oe ak 


Under the IRDP, we have already helped 9 million families including 
3.2 million Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes families and this year another 3 million 
will come under this Programme. 


We are expanding the National Rural Employment Programme; the Rural Landless 
Employment Guarantee Programme, and Self-Employment for Educated Unemployed. 
(Interruptions) 


Perhaps many of you are parents here and some of you are not... 


eo मर Hak मे ae ok ak 


You all know that small children think that if they close their eyes, they are hiding 
themselves or the thing in front of them will go away. And there is also a story—I forget 
whether it is Indian story or of some other country—of a philosopher who thought if he 
closed his eyes, the thing would go away. 


a a मर ae 2K मं ae Hc मं 


नी 


This philosopher kicked a rock and you can imagine what happened. He hurt his foot. 
Somebody made the complaint that we had given up the “Food for Work Programme”. 


No. It has not been given up. But, it is true that it was not working well. I myself 
visited many areas when I was out of power to see how this Programme was functioning 
and I did not find a single place where they said that they were actually getting what they 
were supposed to get.... And this complaint... (/nterruptions) 


This has actually happened to me. This is nobody else’s report. 


ac ie ok ae ae a me a ac 


There was spurious work and there was the problem of middlemen who were in charge 
of distribution. Some States did not lift the grain. As you know, there was also a time when 


we had acute shortage. 


However, we tried to retain this Programme to the extent possible and now we are 
giving one measure per man day in lieu of a part of the wages under the NREP. 


There has been a lot of criticism of banks. Hon. Member may have noticed that I have 
also raised my voice on that point, not because no bank is doing any good work but because 
some banks or, rather, some individuals in some banks have not behaved as they should. 


255 


I have drawn the attention of the Finance Minister as well as others concerned to see 
bi there is closer monitoring and I have also asked those who have complained that instead 
of making sweeping complaints, they should give specific instances which can be inquired 
into. Those particular incidents would be examples for others. But you cannot inquire into 
a general and vague complaint. 


ae ak ak a ae ae af मंद मर 


One can inquire into specific instances.* I think many Members even on the opposite 
side will agree that in the old days, banks were for a extremely limited section of the people; 
the banks were for the rich. This was one of the issues on which some of our friends left 
us. Now banks are for all and especially, for the poor and hardworking. ..(/nterruptions) 
No, I am not saying that everybody gets loans. But the door has been opened for them to 
get them. That is the big thing. We are free today but we have not got the sort of freedom 
that we had dreamt of. But at least the door is open for us to work towards it. Similarly, 
we are opening the doors, we are opening opportunities and we must see that these 
programmes are implemented in the proper way. And in this we seek the cooperation of 
all the general public, including politicians. 


I consider this to be one of the biggest achievements of our Party and our Government. 
In fact, Bank Nationalisation was a turning point in our economic history and we are not 
allowing the banks to rest on their old laurels. There has been a big growth in rural deposits 
and in the number of branches opened. We cannot possibly give loans to absolutely 
everybody. This is where the difficulty arises and also the test is one of credit-worthy 
purpose. Obviously a person with such a purpose becomes a credit—worthy person... 


aE A ac mK a 3c aK 3c ai 


We have said that when there is a special problem and when the person is absolutely 
unable to pay for a very good reason—this is, of course, my suggestion, I am not saying 
that the banks have accepted it—in those cases, some debts should be written off. But this 
is something which I cannot dictate to the banks. They have to study and decide. My 
suggestion to them was that where they ignore delays in the repayment of debts. by big 
concerns, they should certainly give the same advantage to the poor. This is what I am 
saying. 


Now we have also said that a greater proportion of deposits should be disbursed within 
the region of collection... 


oe 2k मं a ok मं 2024 ak 


Some people do not want us to succeed in this objective. So obstacles are being created 
and false propaganda made in order to bring this credit programme into discredit. In fact 
one political party took large number of people to the banks to demand such loans and 
when the banks could not immediately give them.... 


ae ok ok 44K Hook ak 


* Replying to Shri Ramavatar Shastri’s observation, “I have given specific instances”. 


256 


They may be all poor.* But, as I said, we cannot yet cover the 680 million population 
of India. It can only proceed little by little... .(/mterruptions) 


He मैप मंद ete st मर 


I remember the time, Sir, Shri Vajpayee will forgive me—when there were floods in 
one area of Delhi. At the time they did not give rations to our people. I went there myself. 
It was only after we made a big noise that rations were distributed. Don’t lecture me here, 
Shri Vajpayee. I know what I am saying. 


मै मर मं मर मर और she मं ak 


This 1s not true.** Never in my life have I made a false allegation. 


kK मर aerk ak ae ahah 


I am sorry to say that not only did it happened then but it has happened very recently 
in another State also. I am not naming the State to avoid further shouting. People know it 
well. This talk about taking political advantage is utter nonsense. Why should he not take 
political advantage of our good programmes and after good achievements ? The Opposition 
wishes to take political advantage out of disruption—we, out of construction. 


mK 3c ak me 2 मर mee oe 


I do not want to get into questions of ideology now. There can be no doubt in anybody’s 
mind anywhere in the whole world that had the Congress Party not been at the helm of 
affairs here, India would not have been one, India would not be united and integrated. 
(Interruptions). Some of you opposite are sitting with those parties which were at the root 
of the disruption. Some of you were not even born at that time. What do you know about 
It? 

ic मंद मर aR He मं We ae oe 


I am not blaming you, why do you interrupt ?*** Had you been with me on the streets 
of Delhi, you would have come to know who were the people behind these nots. Their 
faces have not yet faded from my memories.t 

me अर मर a ae af te मं ae 


I am not speaking about the freedom movement****. I am talking about the period 
after the freedom movement. Mr. Indrajit Gupta, please tell him to understand this. We 
are talking of the disruptions that were created after freedom. 


ae oe ake mie ae af fe कं oe 


* Responding to Shri Atal Bihari Vajpayee’s remark,‘‘They are all poor 

** Responding to Shri Atal Bihari Vajpayee’s remark, “The Prime Minister is in the habit of making baseless 
allegations”. 

*** Responding to Shri Ramavatar Shastri’s remark, “Madam we were also there”. 


+ Translated from Hindi. 
****Replying to Shri Ramavatar Shastri’s observation, “We were also there in the freedom movement’. 


257 


But, there were people who were spreading communal disharmony at that time. With 
my own two eyes I saw people killing people. Do not tell me that this is untrue. It was 
because of that Gandhiji allocated that work to me. There are many here who do not know 
what has happened before they do not know the history—what happened in Kashmir or 
what happened in Delhi or elsewhere in those years. 


ae aha 2k a ak ae ah ak 


I am not pointing to anybody. I say there are many people.” 
I do not know your age. I do not know when you were born. 


Now, Sir, one of the questions which is bothering all of us and I share and understand 
the concern of the Opposition, is the question of periods. The Economic Survey and budget 
speech have dealt with this issue at great length. My colleague, the Finance Minister has 
also put it in its historic perspective but I want to repeat just a few facts. 


Two huge increases in the prices of ० some years ago tiggred off world-wide inflation. 
No country has really recovered from it since of course the problem is not there for countries 
who do not need oil, or those, who have oil. We were able to control inflation in 1974-75 
in a manner in which few countries did. Other countries have acknowledged this in public 
statements and international conferences. 


Price stability was maintained unti] 1977. But in 1979-80 things went haywire. Prices 
went up by more than 22 per cent. That was the situation we found in 1980. I don’t like 
repeating these things but since you keep repeating your allegations, I have to answer. We 
worked hard to control inflation and in 1980-81 it came down to 15 per cent. In 1981-82 
it was about 2.5 per cent. Just look at the difference from over 22 to 2.5 per cent. 
Unfortunately nature took a hand and we had very severe droughts. Even so we managed 
to keep inflation at 6.5 per cent in 1982-83 but the pressures generated by these two 
successive years of failure of rains have created problems in the current year. Even so, 
Sir, skilful management has prevented the kind of situation which had developed in 1979- 
80. What did we do ? We had an intensive programme to develop agricultural production. 


Even in such a very bad year, the decline of production was much less as compared with 
1979-80. 


Yesterday or day before an hon. Member remarked : “What have you got to do with 
production. Rains were good’. Rains have been good in many years and rains have been 
bad in many years. I have just shown how in a year of very scanty rains we still managed 
to control the situation. The rains were exceedingly good during part of the Janata Party 
period for two years. I forget which year but for two years they were very good. One year 


* Answering Dr. Subramaniam Swamy’s question, ‘To whom you are pointing.” 


258 


i 


(०285 


was bad. But production did not go up. How does production go up ? It is because of the 
manner in which we come forward to help farmers. We have also had a sizeable expansion 
of the public distribution system. You will, perhaps, remember that most of the shops were 
closed down in the Janata Party period. 


a मंद मं Hef a मंद ak 


You don’t believe in them.* But we do believe in fair distribution. Therefore, it is our 
duty to do everything we can do to expand it. 


In 1980 there were 2.36 lakh fair price. shops. Now, there are 2.97 lakhs. Distribution 
of essential commodities through this distribution system has been stepped up. A record 
15 million tonnes of foodgrains were released in 1982 and we think that in 1983 it was 
more. I don’t have the exact figures with me at the moment. Public stocks were augmented 
through timely imports. Action was taken to control money supply and monetary policy 
was tightened. The budgetary situation was kept under control and we made every effort 
to curtail Government expenditure. It has been curtailed in some areas but I confess not at 
all to my Satisfaction. 


Incentives such as Excise Duty reliefs were given to stimulate industrial production. 
This policy package has yielded results. 


The rate of increase of prices was fairly step up to September, 1983. After that, the 
rate cf increase has slowed down. We are continuing our vigilance and will not hesitate to 
take further steps as and when necessary. 


The Budget has reduced levies on many items of essential consumption. It has to be 
ensured that these benefits are passed on to the consumer. This is our major difficulty. 
The Government will monitor this. 


My hon. friend opposite questioned our claim of 5 per cent industrial growth because 
the average growth rate between 1978-79 and 1982-83 was much lower. The fact is that 
in 1979-80 there was a fall in industrial production with a negative rate of growth—minus 
1.4 per cent. But in the three years 1980-81, 1981-82 and 1982-83 the average growth 
rate of industry was 5.5 per cent. I am confident that the growth of industrial production 
will be sustained. We are concerned with industrial production and we are worried where 
it has gone down, and it has in some areas. But no one can deny the substantial gains 
made in the last four years nor should they be decried by anybody. A simple example is 
Oil, where we have struck it luckily. But it is also a question of policy, of being able to 
exploit the oil properly and to make it available. 


As you know, there has been a phenomenal increase in indigenous oil production. How 
did it come about? By national determination. Fortunately this is a sector which is not 


* Responding to Dr. Subramaniam Swamy's remarks, “We did not believe in them. We did not need them.” 


259 


subject to natural calamities although it is also an endangered area. Many industries are 
- Subject to natural calamities. But, in several industries, such as Cement, Electricity 
Generation and Coal, we have made impressive increases. 


The main problem is of higher capacity utilisation. We have been going into this, sector 
by sector and plant by plant. 


The House knows that there are some long-term structural programmes. The biggest 
of them is the modernisation of out-dated plants and out-dated managerial methods 
regarding which we are taking suitable policy action. 


We are deeply concerned about problems faced by Industrial Labour. If the farmers 
are the foundation, I would say that Industrial labour is the spin of a modern nation. 


ey i ety 8”, i. टी 
27:27: 


ae 


Lea RT 
pense 
22002 


Neate 
Moreen 


A matter of concern—and which crops up again and again-is that of the phenomenon 


of corruption. It is there. It is a fact to be reckoned with, and it is something which we poe 
must fight with all our might at every level and in every possible way. Government agencies a 
are doing their utmost to check this and to punish the guilty. The issues are complex and os 


they do not yield to simplistic solution. We need vigilant public opinion, that can bring 
specific cases to our notice. Whenever, such cases are brought, I assure the House, that | 
have done this in the past, and shall continue to do so, that is, to look into every case and 
see that it 1s properly dealt with. But cynicism is a protector of corruption. It does not 
help to be cynical about these matters. The fight against corruption has to be relentless. 
Certain firm steps have been initiated for which we will need public co-operation. In fact 
hardly any programme can be successful without full public co-operation. 


The day before yesterday, Punjab was discussed at great length. I just missed the 
beginning of his speech. My hon. friend opposite accused me of not clarifying 
Government’s mind on the subject. Since that was stated in detail in the Home Minister’s_ . 
speech, I thought there was no point in my repeating it. 


ek ak मे: मर मं 2 मंद मं 


There is no contradiction in Government’s views.* Sometimes we have offered a 
solution. But if it is not accepted naturally we have to 1000 at the whole matter again. But 
there is no difference of view amongst ourselves on these issues. Our stand was very clearly 
explained. The basic point which I mentioned yesterday and which I should like to repeat, 


is that communal violence and terrorism have to be rooted out from our body politic. oe 
Communalism was the biggest threat to the initial unity and stability of the country and it ee 
remains the biggest threat to our present unity and stability. It is the Indian version of e 


fascism and my struggle against it has been uncompromising. Our fight is against extremism 
and the separatist philosophy of extremism. Extremism is against the interests of all sections 
of our people, whether they are Hindus, Muslims, Sikhs, Christians and other people and 
of the nation as a whole. The Sikhs are dynamic and enterprising people who have 


* Replying to Dr. Subramaniam Swamy’s question, “What he said, is it Government's view, because we have seen 
that there are contradictions in Government's view 7" 


contributed much to the country, not only in Punjab. If you travel all over India, you will 
find that there is hardly a place in which you don’t find Sikhs. Initially we were told that 
certain races were martial races, certain races have some qualities and not other races. Now 
we know that after people get training, the people of any State show those qualities, of 
courage or other types of ability and capacity. 


I have had a special feeling for the Sikhs, because of what they suffered during Partition 
and because of the manner in which they got on their feet again without complaint. This 
is one of the qualities I admire most in people I have specially mentioned this a number 
of times. Their prosperity and progress are linked with the progress and prosperity of the 
whole country. But this progress and prosperity can only take place when there is also 
progress, prosperity and harmony amongst the other people around them, with their 
neighbours in Punjab or in any other State. I do not think a community which has itself 
suffered so much should allow the bonds of brotherhood and trust to be weakened by a 
tiny minority of extremists. I do not know whether this particular group is anti-national or 
what is motivating it but there is certainly a very small element-I do not know what, word 
to use—that is bent upon creating confusion, discord, mistrust and suspicion which has led 
to violence and terrorism. I agree with my hon’ble friend who said that the Sikh masses 
should not be confused with any one political party and certainly not with the extremists. 
They are not identified with this small group of terrorists. 


While I condemn the killings in Punjab, I equally condemn the killings and other 
happenings in Haryana. This type of retaliation does not achieve anything, it does not 
strengthen anybody. In fact, it is counter-productive because it increases violence, it 
increases suspicion and feelings of communalism. The same is true of other communal 
incidents which have taken place earlier, that is, between Hindus and Muslims in some 
parts of the country, between Christians and others in different parts of the country. These 
tendencies are divisive for the country. They weaken our country and the States in which 
they occur. They weaken our whole country and we must get together at least on this one 
issue and categorically state that we are not going to allow such incidents to take place. 
Not only is it very bad for us but it is bad for the communities themselves and for the 
character of individuals. Apart from its being damaging economically and socially, as 
individuals, we deteriorate. Even those who may not take part merely, by living in the 
midst of such an atmosphere of hatred and bitterness, deteriorate as human beings. 


Unfortunately, there has been some false propaganda, much of it is abroad, by 
misguided elements. It is against the country’s honour. We cannot ignore the danger of 
such groups acting as tools of foreign agents. As I said earlier, they may be very few in 
number, but if you see the foreign press, they got publicity out of all proportion to their 
number or to what is happening, and generally the impression is given of the whole country 
being in flames, everybody killing everybody else, whereas as people of all religions will 
testify, Hindus, Muslims, Sikhs and Christians, that wherever there has been trouble, there 
are numerous instances of people of other religions saving their neighbours and helping 
them in threatening situations. This is the atmosphere which we must build together. 


A suggestion was made by my hon. friend opposite that we should have peace brigades, 
peace committees, or peace marches. I am all for it, but we have to be sure that all those 


261 


who take part in these marches are actually for peace, but some times our experience has 
been a little different. 


afc ae a HC a ak मर 


The day before yesterday I said in this or the other House, that the basic problem in 
Punjab is not the demands put forward by the Akali Dal. The legitimate demands of any 
group are to be met through discussions and negotiations in a democratic system such as 
ours. But here the basic problem is the kernel of extremism with its irrational and destructive 
philosophy of violence. Violence and terrorism should not be allowed to become a premium 
in resolving a problem. An hon. Member said that some people were interested that the 
talks did not succeed. That is what I meant. When I said, I do not know, what would be 
achieved, this is what was at the back of my mind ; I knew that certain people were 
interested in keeping distance between us. 


aie oe और 1K ae मे ae अं 3 


I am not objecting to what you said.* You said, before this or after this particular remark, 
that my expression shows that I thought that the tripartite talks would not succeed. 
Something like that you said. 


Hohe a eo मर ae मै ae 


It is in answer to that I am speaking I am not saying that we should not have talks. 
What I said was that it was because I felt on the basis of certain information that there 
were individuals interested in breaking the talks, that I expressed certain doubts about the 
success of the talk. There is no doubt in my mind whatsoever, the negotiations are the 
only way out for the ending of any dispute, whether national or international. There is no 
question of anybody encouraging these funds to be taken to the streets. We oppose this 
vehemently. I am again stressing the responsibility of all political parties and non-political 
people to realise the danger of terrorism, the danger to ourselves and the danger it throws 
up the chance it gives to those who may wish greater destruction so that they can interfere. 


In Kashmir also the situation is a disturbing one, because of the concerted activities of 
secessionists and certain communal organisations. They pose a threat to national security 
and to the integrity of the nation. As one hon. Member has pointed out, insulting the national 
flag is no less serious than insulting the Constitution. Why has the Onposition not spoken 
up about this ? The Central Government have written to the State Government. Firm and 
effective action and continued vigilance is needed, and we keep pressing for it. 


The murder of our official in the United Kingdom, Shri Mhatra has to be viewed in 
the context of the anti-national activities of certain such organisations. 


Irrespective of political differences, all should unite in isolating and combating such 
elements. The question is not one of victory or defeat of any political or other party in 


* Responding to Shri Indrajit Gupta’s remark, “I said there is no alternative to talks even if you fail at first”. 


262 : 


Jammu and Kashmir. The question is of preserving the unity and integrity of our country, 
on the basic principle of secularism and democracy. When we see that these precious 
objectives are threatened, we have to raise our voice against it. If we did not see that there 
were some signs of such a threat, I would not have raised my voice. 


Now, we have got used to the face that sometime Pakistan says that India is not 
reconciled to its existence. It is an old complaint which we have refuted time and again. 
The creation of Pakistan was something to which we agreed. Whether we liked it or not 
liked it, is beside the point. We agreed to it, we have accepted it and we are living with it ; 
and we believe in co-existence. Because I said that our system is a democratic one, in 
answer to a question from a Pressman-he or she asked, I forget who it was—viz. “Well, 
what about Pakistan ?” ; I replied : “Look ; we believe in democracy ; but it is for other 
countries to decide their own system of Government.” Because we believe in democracy, 
we may like other countries to be democratic. But it is for them to decide what system 
they will have. That is the extent of my remarks regarding which hon. friend opposite 
blamed me for interfering in Pakistan’s internal affairs. 


ae a ak a ea ae ai a 


Unfortunately, you do not wear a bonnet.* Otherwise, there is a saying in English, ‘you 
have a bee in your bonnet’. That is your bee which buzzes all the time. You cannot see 
realities. That prevents your understanding these issues clearly. We have not said that we 
support the Soviet system. That is our quarrel with these friends, this side. 


ae ak अर ae ak ak ae oe मं 


We have our own system. They have their own. We are not interfering in their system, 
and I don’t think they are interfering 1n our system. 


a ac भर ie भर मंद aK मंध् मर 


No. Mr. hon. Member.** I can tell you I was not. I have exchanged numerous letters.... 


24 मंद अं tok #4 


If I discuss the substance, you will then want the letter to be laid on the Table of the 
House. I am willing to tell you if you come to my office because there was nothing secret 


in it. It was just a short, about five or ten line letter. 


ae ae ak ak ae मर ae ak ak 


It was a very short letter, for a particular occasion. But I am not going to lay it on the 
Table of the House. Therefore, I am not going to tell you here. I am prepared to tell you 
outside. 

मंद जंध अं a ee a a ok 


* Dr. Subramaniam Swamy who asked, “What about democracy in Soviet Union ? Why don’t you speak about it ? 


** Replying to Shri Atal Bihari Vajpayee’s questions, ‘There was a letter from you addressed to the late Soviet leader, 
Andropov. Was it not an interference ? Were you not inviting him to interfere in the internal affairs of the 


country ?” Shri Vajpayee wanted to know the contents of the letter. 


There was no question of his services.* Suppose you come to me and say: ““Would 
you mind giving me such—and—such a message ?”. I shall say, ‘Yes’; if I agree with what 
you are saying, of course. 


eK oe We ae a a ak a 


But, well, this much I can say that I did not write that. 


ने am unhappy at the frequent complaints that India is not reconciled to the existence 
of Pakistan ; and I am sorry that hon. Members sometimes also say something along those 
lines. This does not serve the national cause. I frankly tell you that I am at a total loss to 
understand such a sentiment when I myself have not only declared my policy but acted 
upto it. You will remember that it is I who have taken all the initiatives to re-establish 
friendly relations with Pakistan and with China. I hope you are happy with that. 


a6 kK ae कं मे ae ie मं 


...But in spite of that fact, from across the border statements are made which are not 
conducive to the creation of a better atmosphere. I do not want to go into the question of 
arms, but it is something that is of concern to us. 


me a ok ae He ae ae He ae 


So, there is no doubt that we want better relations with all our neighbours, not just 
Pakistan and China. You know with what great restraint we have acted in Sri Lanka, 
although on that issue our hon. friend had quite different views. You will remember what 
demand be made about sending our army. 


मंः मैप ak Hehe ak ae a ak 


Now, as I said, it is our policy to respect all our neighbours like Bangladesh, Sri Lanka, 
Nepal, Bhutan, Pakistan and China : and we shall not spare any effort to promote good 
neighbourly relations with them. We have taken an active part in the establishment of the 
South Asian Regional Cooperation which was launched last year by the Foreign Ministers 
of the 7 countries concerned and which has now gathered a certain momentum. We 
welcome this development. 


But the situation in our region cannot be divorced from the general environment in 
the world as a whole. Hon. Members know that the international atmosphere is marked 
by acomplete collapse of detente which had to create a new atmosphere, if not, a friendship, 
at least a direction of co-operation and friendship. But today there is heightening of tension 
and confrontation. The casualties in the war between Iran and Iraq both of whom are- 
good friends of ours have now reached enormous proportions and cause us deep anguish. 
We want a climate of peace, trust and mutual respect ; in other words, adherence in letter 
and spirit to the principle of peaceful coexistence. This is necessary now more than ever 


* Responding to Shri Atal Bihari Vajpayee’s query, “Why were the services of a CBI member utilised to despatch 
that letter”’. 


before. India is working hard for the ending of the nuclear arms race. These are the two 
main international questions which have been of concern to everybody who has been here; 
and we have had leaders from the East and from the West both the political East and West, 
as well as the geographical East and West, who have also expressed their concern over 
these two matters, first, the stock-piling of nuclear armaments and taking the war into space 
and so on ; and the second is the growing disparity between the affluent and the developing 
countries. This must be diminished. My Government remains decided to support all efforts 
to achieve these objectives. The whole world, needs peace but we, the developing world, 
need it more than the industrialised countries, because we have another war to fight, it is 
the war against poverty, the war against under development. We need peace and harmony 
internally and externally to win this war and to take our country forward. 


The President’s Address, Sir, is an opportunity for annual stock-taking. Criticism of 
policies and programmes is a normal feature of Parliamentary life and of this debate and 
we accept it. But I do hope that the hon. Members will look at the broad direction of 
movement. I certainly do not want to minimise the enormity of the problems, or the long 
distance yet to be covered on the road to progress, but I do have full faith in the Indian 
people and I am sure that if we can work together at least to combat the disruptive forces, 
then we can achieve far greater progress which will help the whole country. All our 
programmes should be seen in the overall context in which we are functioning today. The 
people should realise the difficulties of nation building in the sort of situation that exists 
in our country as well as in most other place around us. 


I thank all the Members for their patience. I commend the President’s Address for 
adoption. I request all those who have moved amendments to withdraw them. 


Thank you. 


265 


2 


NO-CONFIDENCE MOTIONS 


India Simply Cannot Fail* 


Mr. Deputy-Speaker, Sir. I rise with a very heavy heart. My heart is not heavy because 
there is a no-confidence motion, because this seems to have become a regular feature 
ae (Interruptions) 


40% मं ae oe ak mak ऊ 


Sir, nothing has been said in the course of this debate that we have not heard before. 
There has been the same disarray among the Members of the Opposition each one giving 
a different prescription for the nation’s health. And yet, I welcome this opportunity to speak 
because of my own deep concern and very great distress at the atmosphere of violence 
and defiance of law which is prevailing in our country. I am sorry to say that this is being 
encouraged. Just now some hon. Members have drawn your attention, which you said will 
not be recorded, to what is happening outside. I am not fully aware of the exact picture 
and I have sent a note that they should find out immediately and let me know, but the 
earlier reports were somewhat conflicting. But this is a symptom of what is happening 11 
many places. Whether it is amongst the students, whether it is amongst other sections of 
the people, there is a very deliberate attempt to incite violence. 


अर मंद और ae a मं ae Cah 


I had a meeting with the Vice-Chancellor of the Allahabad University only yesterday 
and also with the heads of other departments.** In other towns also where I go I have 
been meeting the people concerned with education. 


ic aft aK me और 2 We oie ae 


Statements may have appeared and more statements may appear also, but the picture 
has to be looked at from all sides and not just from one side.*** 


I am one who abhors use of force in any circumstance, but when there 1s incitement to 
violence and when violence leads to acts of defiance of law, arson, looting, destruction of 
public property and valuable property such as transmitters, railway equipment and other 


* Replying to the debate on the Motion of No-Confidence in the Council of Ministers, LS. Deb., 7 November, 1966, 


cc. 1592 - 1605. 
** Responding to Shri Indrajit Gupta’s suggestion, ‘Ask the Vice-Chancellor of the Allahabad University?” 


*** Responding to Shri A.K. Gopalan’s remark, “There is a statement in the papers today by the Vice-Chancellor, 
Shri R.K. Nehru”. 


269 


things some of which are very difficult to get again, then there is no other way, it can only 
be met by force. This is what is, unfortunately, happening : violence leading to force, force 
leading tc more violence and violence leading to more force. This is why I said I welcome 
this opportunity to speak, because I want to put this aspect before you. 


I do not think the nation 1s in a state today when we can bicker over small things, take 
up small petty issues or other difficulties. This is a situation in which we must all pull 
together and think how to bring the situation under control and see what can be done so 
that we can once again have normal life. 115 not merely a question of people airing their 
grievances. I have always said and I maintain that every grievance, every genuine demand, 


Pee Mere afer ae 212 70 20४ ::7727720:72 

Baca anterior enc Nate 00277: 772: 

22:20 7020 SES SRS ee ene Cea 
SESE eae eae emer ; 


should be looked into promptly, thoroughly and it should be dealt with. Some of the : : 

demands which are being made are demands which cannot be fulfilled. ee 
मर मंध कं HOC HK IK 

The demands are not all addressed to the Government there are many people who are 


involved in this.* 


aK 3 ak a OK a ae ok a 


Those that come within our concern or any government’s concern will be and are being 


looked into and 1 want to urge upon everybody concerned that they should be more prompt 
and more thorough. 


But the question today is not of any particular demand. If you ask the students what 
demand are they now fighting for, they do not know themselves, they have forgotten what 
the original demand was. So it is not a question of demand, it is a question of the methods 
adopted and the manner in which their grievances are being ventilated, and I feel this is 
something which the Government must oppose however disagreeable it may be and 
whatever it costs because if you do not do it the cost is much greater 1n another way. 


Sir, what is happening outside is, as I said, not an attack on the Government. I feel it 
is an attack on a way of life, on our values, on our traditions which we have so far cherished. 
We have in India followed certain paths. Whether it was Gandhiji, whether 1t was my father, 
they took this line from our own ancient teachings. They gave a modern meaning to the 
word “non-violence”, and we struggled even during our independence along this traditional 
path. It was not a path that was understood then. I remember, as a small girl, we were 
made fun of, we were abused, we were scolded and we were ridiculed. But we believed it 
was the right path and we stuck to that path. It was the right path and we did succeed by 
that path. Then, again, we want to establish democracy in this country. There is mud- 
slinging from every side about authoritarian ways, but I doubt whether anywhere else in 
the world you will find a party with such a great majority putting up with so much from ae 
an extremely divided opposition. The opposition has an important role to play in a a 
democracy, and we want to give the views of the opposition full consideration and all 


* In response to Shri Hem Barua’s query, ‘To whom are you addressing this 7” 


270 


courtesy, and we do so. But I submit that sometimes they take advantage of it, and it is 
because of thi: that we witness some of the scenes which we are witnessing outside. 


ae ok sak a eta 


Some of the methods which are used today are methods which are cutting at the very 
roots of democracy. Democracy cannot exist if the rule of law goes and if law and order 
are constantly being violated. It simply cannot exist. 


One hon. Member just now quoted what he thought I had said. I am very sorry, Sir, 
this is not what I have said at all. I said that there are certain conditions in which there 
could be revolution, and I described those conditions at considerable length. It is not 
something that I can do in one or two sentences. 


Pe. ae ah ak ke 


I do not know how many newspapers have printed it, but still it is not correct.* And it 
18 not something which I have said for the first time. I have expounded this theory at 
numerous meetings in many parts of the country. There are conditions in which a democracy 
cannot exist, and I am afraid if we do not deal very strongly with the situation now, we 
may come to such a pass. But, I say, in that particular meeting I was not discussing law 
and order, I was not discussing the political situation. I was not speaking about our 
Government in particular, but in the abstract, about governments, and I said that if the 
interests of the vast majority of the people were not taken into account and they got a 
feeling that the benefits were going to a few, then naturally the people would not stand it. 
It was a very long explanation which I cannot repeat now. 


I am sure hon. Members are aware what an extremely delicate and difficult job the 
police and the magistracy have to do. When they have not acted in time, I remember here 
in this very House how many complaints were voiced—why they did not act in time. But 
suppose they take strong action before a shop was looted or other violent action has taken 
place, then also they are criticised. 


Now, it is true that once force is used, innocent people do suffer. It is something which 
unfortunately cannot always be helped. It is something which I deplore. My fullest 
sympathies are with those who get hurt or injured in this manner, and we must do all we 
can to help them. But when there is a large crowd it 1s not possible to distinguish as to 
who is innocent and who is guilty. Even when you do distinguish, if there is a lathi charge, 
it does fall on anybody who happens to be in the way. 


As I said, Government cannot possibly allow persistent defiance of law. It has its 
reponsibility to this House and to the people. It must deal with the situation and with all 
anti-social elements, and this Government is determined to do so. I certainly hope that we 
shall have the unreserved support of all sections of the House. But what I would like to 
say is, while as I said I abhor the use of force, at the same time, I must condemn the creation 
of situations which lead to the use of force. 


ae ae मर और ah के 


* Responding to a Member’s remark, “It has appeared mi some newspapers”. 


271 


I do not think the Government is to blame.* The Government may certainly be blamed 
“in some cases, but the inciting of people is certainly not done by. the Government. 


af oe ae मर ak मर ak ae ak 


Whoever has done it, I am not here to apportion blame. That is not the point. I am not 
speaking here to say whether you are wrong or I am right; I am only saying that we should 
get together now and try to make a concerted effort to deal with the situation. 


Lapses do occur and all that we can do in that case is to try and minimise such 
occurrences. As I said before, violence is not our way of life. It is foreign to us and we 
want to keep it away from us. Our democratic system is in danger. We know that there are 
many other dangers to it. We have been threatened on our borders; we have been threatened 
by other pressures; we have many internal difficulties. To face all this, we must stand 
together and strengthen our democracy and our freedom. 


I began to speech by saying that I am speaking with a heavy heart. It is not only because 
of the violence which we are witnessing now. Perhaps you have heard that the last two 
days I have spent in some of the worst affected area of our country, in parts of Bihar and 
parts of Uttar Pradesh. There are people with genuine grievances, with very genuine 
hardships. Their lives are at stake. But I did not hear one complaint from them; not one 
person came to me and said “give us this” or “give us that’. 


ak a ae ae ak अर me aK oh 


No, they did not.** Every single peasant is trying to do whatever he can do. He is not 
interested in speeches, he is not interested in agitations and demands and force. He is trying 
to utilise every second of his time, every ounce of his energy to produce whatever he can, 
to retrieve whatever he can get. In this situation, we find people in the cities and so on, 
instead of trying to see what they can do to help those people, because it is the most serious 
crisis which we have in this country, creating trouble by starting agitations. This is the 
1108 serious crisis which we have. We have had drought before. But, then, the season 
previous to it had not been so bad and there were leftovers and there was some moisture 
in the land, even though it had no rain. But today we face a situation in which the land is 
absolutely dry; there is no moisture at all in the soil. In some places I saw tall crops standing 
and I was indeed glad that there was some crop. But when I got down and went near the 
crop, when I touched the head of the Bajra or whatever it was, there was absolutely nothing 
in it; it was just bhoosa. This is the state of affairs and the Central and State Governments 
and all the people are making a tremendous effort to face the situation. I cannot say how 
far we will be successful in facing it. Perhaps we can, to some extent, but the whole situation 
is of such magnitude that it does need very concerted and united effort. In Bihar the Chief 


* Responding to Shri Vasudevan Nair's remark, ‘There the Government comes in”. 
** Replying to a Member's intervention, ‘Perhaps they said “give us food”. 


272 


Minister has formed a sort of non-official all-parties committee which is trying to see how 
it can supplement what the Government is doing. I think in U.P. also they are trying it. 


2 he af tok ak 


Well, co-operation is not limited to sitting in a meeting room*. It should be done in 
the streets and also out in the villages. 


a ak 9k ak जंध अं a a भर 


Iam glad they are doing it. ** But there are plenty of them running loose and creating 
trouble. 


I think we must take to heart the magnificent response of the people during the drought 
last season, the work done by the people themselves, and the tremendous job done by the 
administration, by workers, official and non-official at every level. This is to be repeated 
in the present situation also. 


We have to have tremendous courage in order to face this situation. I have had long 
talks there with members of certain Opposition parties, with many non-political people, 
with the Government and the administration. They are doing all that they can do, but we 
have to see how this effort can be stepped up and speeded up at every level so as to rush 
to them those things which they are not able to get. With the best of intentions we can not 
give them the amount of grain which they demand. So, it is a question of seeking how 
we can achieve equitable distribution. We do have our very limited resources, not only of 
foodgrains but even of the equipment and other things which we need. We are seeing how 
everything can be diverted from other States and rushed to these two areas even for a short 
while. If necessary, those things could be retumed to them later. 


In this, I think the rest of us who come from places where there is not such a crisis 
have:a big role to play. How could we share the difficulties of these people ? It is obviously 
not possible, nor is it desirable, for people to go to these areas because that would only be 
an extra burden there, but we in other towns and cities can organise movements which 
would give whatever we can spare, and even what we cannot spare, to those areas and 
help them out, both by way of food and other necessities. 


In Bihar they think they may be able to use some engineering and medical students 
also in the programmes that they have. We need inoculation on a very big scale, new small 
irrigation projects and so on on a very big scale and it may be possible for students to 
help out in this and also certainly anybody else who has the requisite knowledge and 
training. This would give them an idea of the situation and also provide a constructive 
outlet to their energies. 


* Replying to Shri Hem Barua’s observations, “All opposition parties are co-operating with that committee. Only 
dissident Congress-men are not cooperating with it.” 
** Responding to a Member's remark, “They are doing it”. 


273 


This is the time when we must try to convert diversity into opportunity for positive 
-action and build up permanent productive assets. I have stressed the point wherever I have, 
that where there are just relief works they should not be undertaken just from the point of 
view of giving something to do to the people but from the point of view of the future, that 
we should try and do as much as possible which will strengthen the agricultural position 
later on and enable us to have an effective national distributive system. It is very necessary 
that this works programme, which is already fairly well organised, is expanded greatly 
and I hope that it will be done soon. 


Another programme, which is still not under way although plans are ready, is for the 
feeding of children. I hope, this will also be undertaken very soon. 


Our food problem 1s a part of the general and greater problem of poverty and for dealing 
with the problems of poverty it is essential to have stability and law and order prevailing. 
There can be no development without tears and hardships. Unless we can prepare our people 


and we ourselves be prepared to undergo those hardships and difficulties, we cannot only 
go ahead but we will only be slipping back. 


We have put our faith in our plans. There is a great deal of criticism of the plans of 
very different kinds. The Draft Plan is before the House and hon. Members will give their 
views on the occasion. Their views will certainly be given the greatest consideration. We 
fully realise, stress and emphasize the point that the essential effort of the Plan and what 
the Plan involves must be our own. We cannot take aid for granted, nor are we prepared 
to seek aid at any price. Therefore I had asked the Deputy Chairman of the Planning 
Commission to be ready with ideas to adjust the plans in case the level of our external 
asSistance is not up to expectations or up to our estimates. Whatever happens, we have to 
make a determined stand and a determined effort to forge ahead. 


Our main tasks are increasing production on the agricultural and the industrial sides. 
Many members who have spoken here have tried to sweep off 19 years as if nothing has 
happened. I do not want to go into the details of that because this statement has been refuted 
many a time but it is true that the trend of our industrial production, which was all along 
rising has had a set back due to shortage of raw materials and due also somewhat to these 
drought conditions and other events. But I have seen forecasts prepared by the Director 
General of Technical Development which encourages the belief that in the coming six 
months there will be a substantial increase in many industries. They have said that it will 
go up from 10 per cent to 25 per cent and even more in certain areas. Some of the things 
they have mentioned are heavy machinery, tractors, trucks, bicycles, cement, paper, 
insecticides and other items. 


India simply cannot fail. We are bound in this together. It is not just a question of this 
government or another government ; it is a question of we simply cannot fail. No nation, 
when they make up their minds to do a thing and do it together, ever-fails. A stable India 


is not only necessary for us and our development but is equally necessary for stability in 
Asia. 


274 


quem 
Seat eS Ree OATS 
on - 
८५220" ७८८० oe See 


5 52 Beater रद 
024०2: 2९ ०४202 ene Sarma cera te 


Just before I came here, I believe, there were certain allegations made. The hon. 
Member* who made them had written to me on the Ist and I replied to him the very next 
day. He had threatened that he would make the statement on the floor of this House and 1 
had suggested to him that in its very nature such a statement might incite communal feeling 
and, therefore, would he please not make it in public. But I am sorry, he did not have the 
patience even to wait for a few days. 


ne ie ak ae fe मर्ज मै 


We immediately look into anything to which our attention is drawn, but it always takes 
some time. You cannot be asked a question today and produce an answer within a couple 
of days, specially when the matter is a State matter and does not really come under the 
Centre. 


One hon. Member said something about there being a conspiracy to keep out steel from 
Salem. Again, he quoted me and various people are quoting me. Here also, I think my 
words have been very clear and I have not moved away from them or deviated in any 
manner. We do want to consider the interests of al] States and do not want any single State 
to suffer; we must diversify our industry, but at this moment, with the difficulties we face— 
the drought situation and the food situation—it does not seem realistic to me somehow to 
be planning a stcel plant which has no chance of coming up immediately. If it is something 
that is not coming up in the future, I do not see how it helps to commit today that this will 
happen here and this will happen there. So, it is not that anything has been shelved or put 
away. All these things are being considered. 


The other day I said in the House that I had drawn the attention of the Planning 
Commission as to what could be done about this and they, naturally, said that unless the 
Plan itself is accepted and there is a clearer picture about the Plan, it will not be possible 
to go into these other matters until then. This did make sense to me and it does not at all 
mean that we are brushing aside people’s feelings. But, as I said earlier, this is no way to 
ventilate the people’s feelings. Today somebody has written to me—TI have missed the news 
in the papers—that a little girl of nine years is fasting somewhere for the Vizag steel plant. 
You yourself can judge what sort of picture this makes and whether Government can take 
decisions in this manner and how we can be forced to take decisions 1n this manner. 


Many, members have made comments on our foreign policy with specific reference to 
the tripartite mecting. They are entitled to criticise, to scrutinise, to analyse and so on. But 
I do think that when important decisions are taken and the heads of two important States 
come all the way to our country, we should not try to ndicule and try to belittle the meeting 
and the decisions taken specially when the results of it cannot unfold immediately and it 
will take time to show results. In some of the things that are said—they are discernible, if 
I may put it that way—a hint of certain vested interests and sometimes chauvinism is there. 
Now, these are matters which we must try and steer clear of. 


* Shri Madhu Limaye. 


275 


Last time, when there was this No-Confidence motion, I said that there was an air of 
aunreality. This time, of course, there is even a greater air of unreality because, as you all 
knéw, we will be put to the test in a very short time. We have to await the verdict of the 
people and I am fully confident that our Party will receive.a renewed vote of confidence 
from the people themselves. Ours is a democracy. Let us go to the polls in an atmosphere 
free from coercion of one form or another. If we wish to maintain democracy, there should 
be no place for those who wish to abuse democratic freedom to destroy the very basic 
rights of democracy. 


Let us all uphold our democratic system and the Constitution, which we have adopted 
and let us, as I said earlier, seek the verdict of the people themselves who are the ultimate 
persons to decide. Let us hold together as a people. Let us uphold the values which we 
have always cherished. Gandhiji was also telling us that means were as important as ends. 
This is what we have tried to do. We may fail but it must always be our ideal and, that 
is—again I come back to the original point that I made—in asking for things, in ventilating 
our grievances, we must bear this aspect in view that we must act in an Indian way, what 
is being recognised all over the world as an Indian way, and which has increased India’s 
stature in the world and all the more so when this is a period which is an extremely difficult 
period for our country. Our President, Dr. Radhakrishnan has, more than once, deplored 
this mounting tendency to violence and he pointed out how to remove this from the Indian 
tradition and what danger it imposes on democracy itself. I look to Parliament and to hon. 
Members to set an example of dignity and decorum and constructive thinking and emphasis 
on the right priorities. 


276 


True Faith in Democracy* 


Mr. Speaker, Sir, no-confidence motions have become such a routine that we are not, 
at any rate I am not, bothered by their frequency except that by their repeated and 
unsuccessful use their utility will be blunted. 


...[t is very interesting to listen to speeches here because in each hon. Member’s speech 
one has a glimpse of how he would function in a particular situation, and unfortunately 
they view our actions in that light. We heard from Shri S.A. Dange a particular exposition; 
we heard from another Member, Dr. Ram Manohar Lohia, another type of exposition, which 
shows the standards which they may use or they maintain. Similarly, we hear the motive 
attributed to the Congress Party; it may be that those are the motives that their parties 
have or would have if they were placed in a similar situation. Fortunately, the Congress 
Party does not suffer from all these things. And what is the proof ? The proof is that today, 
after being in full power, we still have brought this country to a stage where in many States 
there are Governments of a non-Congress nature, either headed by separate parties or by 
coalitions. This in itself is proof that we do not want to cling to power, that we do not 
want to act undemocratically. 


a कं और 3 2K 3 me मंद ae 


By the fact that the Congress Party allowed the Constitution to work** (dnterruptions). 

I am saying ‘allowed’ because there are parties in other countries which have a constitution 

where they have adopted other methods, where they have not functioned like this. This 

has happened in many countries in the world. So this is not an aspect that we can ignore 
Nor is it good for us to ignore 1. 


I do not want to go into the details of the Rajasthan situation, because many Members 
have spoken about it. The constitutional points were very ably dealt with by Shr Shah 
and Shri Khadilkar. Shri Pahadia gave us the details of the situation. Many other Members 
have dealt with those points and last, but not least, the Home Minister went into great 
detail and dealt with the matter in a most able manner. So I do not want to go into those 


issues again. 


* Replying to the debate on the Motion of No-Confidence in the Council of Ministers, LS. Deb., 20 March, 1967, 
cc. 402-09. 
** Replying to Shri Samar Guha's comment, “That is not by the grace of the Congress Party, but due to the 
Constitution.” 


277 


wee eles. 


ty 


But I do want to draw your attention to this fact that today there 1s a changed situation 
in India. But it is not a sudden change. We seem to think that because there was an election, 
a sudden change has come about. This change has been a gradual one; it has been coming 
about little by little, not only in every election, but even in between elections We have 
been watching the change coming over the people and we have been consistently saying 
that these are the growing pangs of democracy, that these are the roots which democracy 
is striking down in our country. And we have encouraged this. 


I do not say that in some places there may not have been mistakes. There may have 
been people who do not want to encourage it. Of course, that must also have happened. 
But by and large, taking this vast country and its vast population, we have encouraged 
these forces of democracy. And today we see an entirely new situation. 


One of the first things that I did was to extend my hand of cooperation and friendship 
to the non-Congress Chief Ministers of certain States. I am very happy to say that they 
responded in a Jike manner and they have assured me that we can cooperate together. It is 
not an easy situation, because not only is the economic situation difficult, the food situation 
difficult, but the whole complexity of this new situation is there. But we will not fail for 
want of trying. That is the utmost we can say on this issue. 


So, I think 1t is extremely unfair of Members of the Opposition to pick out one instance 
where things have not gone smoothly. Everywhere else, where there are non-Congress 
Governments, the transition has been a very smooth and even speedy one. I wish it had 
been so in Rajasthan also. 


There were certain conditions due to which this could not take place. In their speeches, 
Opposition Members seemed to imply that we intend for all time to have President’s rule 
in Rajasthan or to prevent the Opposition from coming in if they had a majority, which is 
not so at all. The Home Minister has made it very clear. There were certain conditions 
created, conditions of violence. 


Now, one may agree with the Governor or not. You may agree with what he did or 
you may not. But the answer is not to take that quarrel out in the streets of Jaipur. This is 
the only question. I am not blaming any particular person or any particular party. As I told 
the Maharani when she phoned to me, this is something which when one starts sometimes 
goes out of control. But a situation did arise where it was felt that it might not be managable; 
it could have been that nothing might have happened. But had we not acted, had certain 
incidents taken place afterwards on the 14th, resulting in firing, loss of life and so on, 
again Opposition Members would have been the first to accuse us and say “You should 
have foreseen this. Why did you not take prompt action?’ 


2k ak मंः मंद ak 2 मैः भर 


The Governor has instituted a judicial inquiry in which all these things will come out. 
We are all interested to know what is the truth of the matter, but until the report of the 
inquiry comes out I think it is not right really to lay the blame on one side or another. 
That is why I did not say anything more about that particular issue. 


278 


But I would like to say how deeply grieved I am at the loss of life in Jaipur, and 1 
wou’d like to express my very deep sympathy for the families of those who have lost their 
lives. 


One thing more. Many types of monopolies are talked about in this House. I would 
like to assure all hon. Members that the Congress Party does not seek a monopoly of power, 
nor does it think that it has a monopoly of wisdom; in fact, we are opposed to monopolies 
of all kinds, feudal monopolies, economic monopolies, personal or family monopolies, and 
even the distressing monopoly of shouting and interrupting of some sections of this House. 


As I said, what has happened in Rajasthan has greatly distressed us and it is unfortunate 
that things developed in this way. 


One charge was made by, I think, Mr. Ramamurti, which I must meet, which is that 
my meetings were arranged by the Government. There are certain security reasons, which 
I must confess that I personally consider entirely unnecessary, but unfortunately there are 
certain rules here about security and it is this security aspect which is dealt with by the 
District Magistrate. He does not organise meeting or anything like that, but even the cost 
of this is always borne by the party. 


मे 3 aK me 2K भर ae 2 ac 


As I said, in six States today we have non-Congress Ministries, and in three of these 
States the Congress has not lost, the number of Congressmen elected in the Assembly is 
very much larger than any other single party; nowhere else in the world would that be 
called a defeat or a loss, it is only here perhaps because you measure it with what the 
strength was before, that you think that it is a defeat in actual fact it is, you could say, a 
lessening of the votes, but it is certainly not a defeat. Where there are these non-Congress 
Governments, we intend to function as responsible and disciplined Opposition, working 
only for the good of the State. Actually, in Rajasthan also, as you very well know, the 
Congress is the largest single party. Anyway, I do not want to go into all those matters, 
and the time also is exceedingly short. I would like to express the earnest hope that at the 
earliest possible there would be a peaceful] atmosphere in Rajasthan...... 


a a ak kK Hoke ak 


...80 that responsible government can be formed as everywhere else in the country, 
and whichever group or party has majority will be asked to assume this responsibility. 


I would beg of all hon. Members of this House to look ahead in the spirit of true faith 
in democracy. 


One point was mentioned by the Maharani, which was that we were afraid because of 
some enquiry which might be held. You all know that this matter has been discussed in 
this House, and the Administrative Reforms Commission has made certain 
recommendations regarding such allegations. We are very anxious to implement these, and 
we are going into the matter. We had taken it up with the State Governments earlier. Now, 
of course, we shall discuss the matter with the new Chief Ministers. We do not want to 


279 


sleep on this matter; we want to take it up, to see that there 18 some regular machinery 
which can go into these allegations, both at the Centre and in the State. So, let us join 
hands in order to create conditions which would enable us to revoke the President’s 
Proclamation and restore responsible Government in Rajasthan at the earliest possible date. 
That is what I said in my broadcast. I assure you that, that is what I genuinely feel. It is 
now a question of all of us trying to work together. Earlier we were always the Government 
and most of you were on the other side, in the Opposition. Now we are both the Government 
and the Opposition in a way in different places. Therefore, unless we try to work together, 
especially where there is a difficult situation, it will not be easy to have smooth functioning 
and to find a way out of the many problems and difficulties which our country faces. 1 
sincerely hope that we will be able to create this atmosphere of working together and having 
normal conditions all over the country. 


ic 


Lies 
a 


Problems of Growth and Development’ 


Mr. Speaker, Sir, I have sat listening with great attention to the speeches which have 
been made, because nothing is so stimulating as good, sharp criticism. But what have we 
heard here ? We have heard some wool-gathering in the labyrinth of oft-repeated saws. 
Very little of what we have heard is new. I have thought that perhaps on the issue of West 
Bengal the Opposition would be united. 


But what did we see ? We heard that Professor Ranga approves of the action and, in 
fact, thinks that it was overdue. 


We find that even before the motion is moved, Shri Atal Bihari Vajpayee gets up to 
assure himself that it is not on any specific issue, that it does not in fact specially mention 
West Bengal. This is the nature of this no-confidence motion. What we have heard, we 
have heard since 1 have been this House, I forget how many times. The same old arguments 
about foreign policy. Not a single new argument has been made. . .(/nterruptions). Therefore, 
there was no sense in having several no-confidence motions tabled at the beginning of the 
session, then withdrawing them and then two days later feeling that the matter is very urgent 
and the same things have to be repeated about foreign policy, about economic policy, about 
food policy and about all other policies. 


Hon. Members will have to excuse me if I also repeat myself because obviously the 
same questions, when the situation remains the same, must have the same answers. I look 
forward to criticism not only in this House but anywhere. As I said before, I find it most 
stimulating. In a motion of no-confidence, what is it that we look for ? We look for some 
alternative policy, some broad framework at least of an alternative policy, which the 
Government can follow. But when we find not one alternative policy but as many alternative 
policies as there are parties, and sometimes as there are Members in the same party, then I 
very humbly submit that there is not much sense in such no-confidence motions. In fact, 
the only thing which hon. Members in the Opposition have in common is some kind of a 
conditioned reflex which comes into action at the very mention of the word ‘Congress’. 


ic af गुर ae ae और aK He मर 


Our hon. friend, Professor Ranga, was so impatient to hit out at me that he did not 
bother to wait to ascertain his facts. He accused me of going to Moscow for—I am going 


* Replying to the debate on the Motion of No-Confidence in the Council of Ministers, L.S. Deb., 24. November, 
1967, cc. 2732-43. 


281 


to quote his words—‘“‘the 50th anniversary of their Communist Party”. These were his 
. words. Actually, I was invited and I accepted the invitation to attend the 500 anniversary 
of the founding of the Soviet State which even Professor Ranga in this very same speech, 
very gencrously permitted me to do, saying—again I quote his words—‘‘the Pnme Minister 
should have gone for the 500 anniversary of the Socialist Republic”. The invitation was a 
specially warm one from a fnendly neighbour with whom we have very close relations. 


This is but one example that I am quoting of the incorrect statements and vague 
generalisations which are constantly being made by hon. Members of the Opposition 
without any regard for accuracy. 


ne 


Psat a en ७८ ० ०१८७ a a ४9 
2०104 aetna PVN ea eRe CE ied 


af ake of 0k Ok 2k ee 


That is beside the point.* I am glad hon. Member thinks that there are Congress 
governments in other parts of the world! In one thing they are correct, that there are 
governments which are friendly to the Congress Government in India. 


I went to the Soviet Union in the same spirit as our President went to attend the 
Centenary celebrations of Canada. And we propose, no matter how many people from the 
Opposition shout about this matter, to adhere to this civilised practice and not to be misled 
by out-of-date, cold war attitudes. Indeed, if this world had accepted or had adhered to 
this cold-war way of thinking, there would be today no hot lines....(/nterruptions). 


3K aK a 3 2 मु me ak 2c 


As I said, there would be today no hot lines, there would today be no meetings at 
Warsaw nor would there be other contacts which nations must maintain with friends and 
foes. 


In the last General Elections, governments of many different views emerged. This House 
is aware that I welcomed the emergence of these governments, I welcomed them publicly, 
and I welcomed them in my meetings with the Chief Ministers. It was not motivated by 
any narrow party motivation. I felt confident that our federal system would respond to the ee 
changed political situation and, in fact, I did every thing I could to discourage any attempt < 
to topple these governments. Not only 41 as the Prime Minister, but I can also speak for all : 
my colleagues, that in their respective departments they did their best to allow these 
governments not only to function effectively but to help them in every way that they could, 
because we believed that in so doing democracy would be strengthened. If all their demands 
could not be met, it was not that we did not wish to meet them but it was because of our 
very genuine difficulties, lack of resources, lack of foodgrains, lack of many other things. 
These difficulties were faced not merely by the non-Congress governments, they were faced 
equally by governments of the Congress Party, who were blaming us equally for not looking 
after their interests. We have been blamed on the 1100 of the House and outside for paying 
more attention to the non-Congress governments and not looking after the people in the 
Congress States because they do not make a noise about their difficulties. 


2 Hk ak ae He a OHO 


* Replying to‘Shri Bal Raj Madhok’s remark, ‘‘Was there the bead of any other non-Communist Government ?” 


282 न 


What did we see on the other side ? The non-Congress Governments were consistently 
trying to blame the Centre for anything which went wrong. The effort to make this different 
party system work was supposed to be entirely one-sided; 1 was only on the side of the 
Congress, the Central Government, that we were to make every effort to sec that things 
went smoothly while, on their side, they could say what they liked, when they liked and 
on whatever occasion they found suitable to make comments against the Congress 
governments, whether that was the occasion for such a comment or not. 


He भर a ai afc akc a ae afc 


Therefore, the effort to pull together was entirely one-sided and we saw the leaders of 
the State Governments often holding conventions to bring down the Congress governments 
in the Statcs and 1n the Centre, openly, without any secrecy or anything. 


a 2k ac ae aK aie और 2k 


We saw minimum programmes, strange alliances, coalitions and all other combinations 
healthy and unhealthy. But we wanted the people to judge for themselves. We still hold to 
that policy. But when the internal stresses and strains within coalition governments produce 
disarray and conflict, then the Centre should not be treated as a scapegoat for all the troubles 
that might arise from them. 


I must admit that political defections of the kind which we have marred our political 
life have tended to bring democratic processes to disrepute. All of us who have the well- 
being of the country and of democracy at heart cannot but feel deep concern that 
representatives elected on a particular party platform, on a particular party ideology, should 
with such ease and facility, cross over and re-cross without even making the effort of 
explaining what political principles were involved in such defections. 


All of us, on whatever side of the House, cannot but deplore this. I think, 1 15 pointless 
to apportion blame as to who started this, when, how or where. Let us look now to the 
future and deal with this in a manner so as to strengthen our democratic institutions. 


Now, certain allegations have been made about West Bengal. Just now before I was to 
speak, you, Mr. Speaker, informed us that we would get some latest information and I 
listened very carefully to the two or three Members who spoke just before me. But I found 
that, far from giving any information, they were expressing certain opinions. (Jnterruption). 
Prof. Mukerjee did ask one question as to whether we knew about a particular 
communication, which he mentioned. I must confess that I have no information about this. 


2 मे ae a मर Lt. 


Mr. Samar Guha made a very excited speech, but 1n the course of that speech, as you 
perhaps have noticed, he himself remarked that his group was preparing to fight the anti- 
national forces in the united front. These are not my words ; these are the words which 
the House heard just five minutes ago from Mr. Samar Guha. (/nterruption) Who, Sir, has 


been advocating violence in West Bengal ? Not now when these incidents have taken place, 
but for months! We have all been reading the speeches reported ॥ the newspapers. Mr. 
Samar Guha has obviously far more inner information about this matter than those of us 
who have been seeing only newspaper reports. We have read such things as a Minister 
saying that those who defected would be skinned alive....(/nterruptions). 


मैप भर मे FOC ae 2c 
Newspapers”*. 


I might add that perhaps we also share some of the sources which Mr. Samar Guha 
has at his disposal. 


My colleague, Prof. D.C. Sharma, was trying to read out Mr. Ajoy Mukerjee’s statement. 
I wish he had been allowed to do so because it is very illuminating. I would very much 
have liked to do so myself, but the time is short and, therefore, I shall read only a sentence 
of it. (Interruptions). In this statement, Mr. Ajoy Mukerjee clearly stated that the Left 
Communists’ allegation of a “desperate conspiracy” is baseless. I should like to remind 
the House that this is not the statement which he made on the eve of his resignation or, 
rather, proposed resignation, but it is the speech which he made on the 16th October, after 


he had decided to continue in Government. Please note the difference in date. In that he 
Says : 


“....a wing of a political party is openly inviting China to help the party in bringing 
about an armed revolution....” 


a मे मु afc a ae aK a मर 


.... Starting in West Bengal. Such a tendency should be nipped in the bud. 


Unfortunately, I got opposition in this matter even from some of my friends in the United 
Front.” 


Sir, I must state that I am not happy at what is happening; in fact, I am exceedingly 
sad. I have great admiration for the people of Bengal. In the history of India’s resurgent 
renaissance they have played a unique and distinctive role. They have given us our top 
leaders in many fields—in politics, in science, in literature, in art and in religion. They 
have given us our national anthem. I have no doubt that....(/nterruptions)....they will be 
able to go through these difficulties and that they will, as in the past, once again march 
towards progress 1n peaceful condition. 


Sir, I do not wish to go further into this matter because it was dealt with in detail by 
the Deputy Prime Minister yesterday and it has also been dealt with during the last two or 
three days by the Home Minister. (/nterruptions). 


मैप af ak मं मर मं oh मर 


* Replying to Shri Jyotirmoy Bosu’s question, ‘What is the source of information 7” 


asa nee 


The purpose of our Constitution is to provide a Government which preserves and 
promotes peace and order, a Government dedicated to the rule of law... (Interruptions)... 
and the welfare of the people. 


Some Members even in this House, even in the course of this debate, have talked of 
violence. I would appeal to them not to indulge in such talk. 


2 ae मंद ae मे 2 ak मे 


Shn Dange even talked of ‘gheraoing’ the High Court. Violence will not achieve any 
ends. There is no provision in the Constitution substituting orderly processes by mob 
violence in the streets. It is the duty of us all or to resist such violence. 


Sir, I was also disturbed when some Members, perhaps in the excitement of the debate, 
made what I can only call, somewhat irresponsible observations regarding our Army and 
what happened in Pakistan and so on. These, Sir, I submit, are the voices of despair. They 
are the voices of those who lack confidence in India and her people. They are the voices 
of those who do not believe in the validity of our democratic system. I have tremendous 
faith in the maturity and wisdom of the Indian people. I have confidence also in the valour 
and very high patriotism of our fighting forces. (/nterruptions). 


I deplore that they should be dragged into a political debate of this kind. (/nterruptions). 


I referred to the patriotic valour of our fighting forces. Does the hon. Member deny 
our fighting forces, their patriotic valour ? 


2c 2c भर ae 2K ok ac a 3h 


As I have already mentioned in the beginning, all the old views repeated many times 
on our foreign policy were again expressed in the course of this debate and specially, by 
the mover* of the motion. Sir, how much India is respected or India’s views are respected, 
cannot be judged by those who are completely cut off from the realities of the international 
situation... 


3 2 2 3K 2 ok ae a और 


...but by what attention is paid to our views in the councils of the world and the 
importance that is attached to our statements by the leaders of foreign countries. 


I strongly repudiate the statement made by Shn Madhu Limaye, which I consider 
irresponsible and false, regarding what I have said about Vietnam in various capitals. At 
no time has there been any inconsistency in my views on the Vietnam conflict, and I have 
always expressed them very frankly, no matter where I have gone. 


The Government of India’s policy is to live in freedom, political freedom and economic 
freedom, and we wish the same for others. That is why in all forums we have been against 
colonialism, racialism and other forms of domination. 


ae ae ae ae ak a मंध् a और 


* Shri Madhu Limaye. 


We are against interference in our internal affairs, and in the same way, we are against 
‘interference in other people's internal affairs. 


After political independence, economic independence is a must for us. The world is 
divided into rich and poor countries, and the gap is a widening one. We must, therefore, 
reconstruct the economic order so that an orderly transfer of resources 1s possible to enable 
developing countries to increase their rate of growth. 


2K 3 मं aie 9K मर मु मर अर 


For this, we want no charity, but opportunity for larger economic co-operation. 


Some hon. Members made reference to our economic situation and our development 
plans. The Deputy Prime Minister* ycsterday did touch upon this subject. It is not a faci 
that planning has been abandoned. The Planning Commission has been reconstituted, and 
is giving a fresh look to the problems facing the country and is considering ways and means 
for stabilising and reviving the economy in a planned manner. It is proposed to take up 
the work of the Fourth Plan in January, 1968 after the completion of the annual plan for 
1968-69. 


Due to the very difficult economic conditions in the last two years, of which hon. 
Members are well aware, and particularly because of the unprecedented drought, our 
industrial activity, national economic growth and demand were adversely affected. Prices 
went up and resources seriously rapped. 


2c afc कं ae kok 2 ak मं 


This threw the economy out of gear. It is hoped that with the revival of agriculture, 
the process of rehabilitation and growth will catch up and that we shall soon progressively 
go up the ladder of planned economic growth. 


I should like to point out that sometimes when we talk about our country, we tend to 
see it in isolation; we want certain ideal conditions for our country. We do not take 
cognizance of the experience of history and of other parts of the world. In the whole course 
of human history, it can be seen that in no country had the economy shown a continuous 
upward swing, not even in the best organised or even in the most advanced countries. 


There are always ups and downs, and there are very often backward movements. If 
we had drought or recession, these are problems which should be dea!t with on the plane 
Of constructive criticism. If we were to lose heart at the first taste of such a reverse on the 
economic front which is caused by factors often out of our control, there would be little 
inducement to go on working and struggling. 


Against the long and rather repetitive list of charges and failures, brought out by hon. 
Members of the Opposition which have not even been substantiated, let me say something 
about what we have been able to achieve in this short time. 


* Shri Morarji Desai. 


. 
ye aes 


— 


= 
See 


ee 0४७5 डा 
PER 


eet 
12207 


oe 2203 Be 


When the Government took office in March this year, the country was facing the bleak 
prospect of famine. There was an acute food shortage in many states and we had the 
tremendous task of providing food to over 500 million people. Never before in history 
has any government had to meet such a gigantic challenge. Yet we faced it boldly and 
with courage. 


2 ak मै जप मैप ak 2 ah 


The general elections brought about State Governments which were not wholly 
cohesive. They were in opposition to the Party in power at the Centre. But we collaborated 
with them fully to meet the challenge of starvation. Whatever else may be said by members 
on the other side, they cannot say that we did not succeed. Their own colleagues in the 
States have borne testimony to our success in saving millions of lives. 


The failure of the crops had placed a tremendous strain on the economy. Our resources 
were taxed to the maximum to import food. The buying power of our people went down, 
prices went up, unemployment had risen and we were in the midst of a recession. It cannot 
be said now that we are out of the woods; certainly not. We face a difficult situation, but I 
feel we have turned the corner. Our crop prospects are good, cash crops are also 
comparatively plentiful, prices are levelling out and exports, I see from statistics, are picking 
up (/nterruptions). Of course, nature has been bountiful this season. But let us not forget 
that we have also laboured hard to increase our agricultural yields. New types of seeds 
and fertilisers, better irrigation, all have greatly contributed to this improved picture. All I 
can say is that whether it was in the political field or in the economic field, this Government 
has acted firmly and courageously to meet the challenges that came up and to fulfill its 
responsibilities towards the people, I have no doubt that when the time comes, the people 


will judge us kindly. 


I was surprised to hear an old argument from Shri Prakash Vir Shastri. I doubt if this 
particular argument has been used in any other parliament of the world. The blame for the 
Opposition not being strong here is put on us, on the Government. Is it not 4 litde amusing 
that amongst our many tasks is also the one to undviiake to strengthen the Opposition ? 


One other Member mentioned something about slowing down of rail movement. I can 
assure him this : I know that it has been slowed down. But this is something which was 
done one whole year ago. It has been slowed down for various reasons. Obviously, I do 
not have time here to go into all the details. But many of these questions have been asked 
before and full answers have been given. If they have not been, questions can always be 
asked again. 


I should like, as I conclude to appeal to Members on both sides of the House to rise 
above the immediate and to think in terms of the larger perspective of history. We have 
entered the third decade of freedom. One half of the nation has been born after we have 
become free. They have, therefore, no knowledge of what bondage meant nor of the struggle 
to break through that bondage. What do we want them to feel ? What sort of picture do 
we want to give them of freedom ? Do we want them to think that feedom is merely the 


८2 pone 22772: 207: ty a 2: BONA ere ee rts 2 pipe हर “of 222 
oe ve 42222 5 22: PO ee EES z Bie 2222 28: 022 a WE a (222 
2४०४४ 77 SRG RR ah te CO 


greed for power ? Or do we want them to feel proud of their heritage and have some hope 
~ ip their future? 


Criticism, as I said, is welcome. But let us not try to check the springs of confidence. 
We have a tremendous job ahead of us and in the next five or ten years we can realise the 
fruits of our investments, our investment in development, our investment in democracy. It 


is in these coming years that we can become self-reliant, and, Sir, I am confident that we 
shall become self-reliant. 


Let not history record that this group of legislators spent their time in bickering and 
denigration and forget to water the roots of confidence and hope. 


With these words, I need hardly add that I ask this hon. House to reject the motion. 


‘oun « 
(५2 ०५ e Xe 
cote! ease ey : on = cht 
::0:2.4000:72.07::25727:%7/07777770 277 020/:72200:::00:0777:722% 02 ्र00:00/0%2 22:20 
२००००: ०००३१९०५ बा eee, ००८, Sy ee aio oe गगन pete Sr eta wa ७ 
६८::००२६०००८८२००८०००-०००८०००:००००००२००:०००००:००८०८०८०२०००-::०००००२०२०:-:८०००२०००८:०००००:२:००२:८८८८०८००००: ८८ 


ss 


27022: 5० 
= oe = 


2222 
mess 


2222: 


India and Pakistan : The Kutch Award* 


...Mr. Deputy Speaker, actually the Government’s point of view has been stated very 
clearly and cogently by my colleague, the Deputy Prime Minister**, yesterday. So it is 
‘not that I am making any new pronouncement just now. I want to say that I welcome this 
discussion and the opportunity we have had to deliberate on various aspects of this award 
and the agreement, and I am grateful to the hon. Members for the level of the debate. It is 
natural that there should be differences in our points of view and in our convictions, but it 
is not right for any hon. Member to claim a monopoly of patriotism which some of our 
hon. friends opposite have tried to do. Even when we differ with them we do not attribute 
motives to their remarks or their reasonings and arguments. We expect the same from them. 
We, on this side, have had a long record of service to the nation and we are second to 
none in our determination to uphold national honour and to work for the welfare of our 
people. We do not wear our patriotism on our sleeves so to speak. 


Mr. Deputy-Speaker, you will appreciate that when we are called upon to form a 
government, to provide a government, we are compelled to face the hard facts of life. We 
Cannot escape into emotion nor can we lay the blame on others and escape our 
responsibility. The approach of the Government, as I said earlier, was made very clear 
yesterday by the Deputy Prime Minister, and this morning my colleague the Home 
Minister*** also has spoken. 


When all is said and the patriotic fervour and emotion spent in very legitimate 
expression, we are left with the fact that the freely elected government of this country 
entered into an agreement, an international agreement.**** That agreement was placed 
before both Houses of Parliament which endorsed it by an overwhelming majority. I cannot 
understand how a democracy can function unless the Members are prepared to accept 
majority decisions. That is the whole point of democratic functioning. Nor can I understand 
the logic of the argument that the decision reached by Parliament, by a majority, is not 
binding on us all. 


A few hon. Members have argued that we can retreat from our obligation to implement 
the decision of the Tribunal, and references have been made: by some hon. Members to 


* Replying to the debate on the Motion of No-Confidence in the Council of Ministers, LS. Deb, 28 February, 
1968, cc, 448-54. 
** Shri Morarji Desai. 
*** Shri Y.B. Chavan. 
**** Swaran Singh—Sheikh Agreement. 


what they have called the compulsions of international public opinion. Naturally, we do 
not ignore international public opinion in many matters, but where national interest is 
concerned we think that it is national interest which. must come before everything else, 
and I should like to assure the House that international opinion 1s certainly not the guiding 
factor in whatever decision the Government has taken. What is important is that India 
should not do anything which is not right and proper. The Government must honour its 
commitments which is that the decision of the Tribunal—and I am now speaking in quotes, 
a single sentence which has been quoted by other hon. Members,—“‘shall be binding on 
both the governments and shall not be questioned on any grounds whatsoever’. Many hon. 
Members who have spoken from the Opposition, even though they have disagreed with 
us on other matters, have supported this view. 


The Tribunal had to determine the boundary alignment, and I might add that the 
alignment claimed by India has been substantially accepted. The opinion of the Chairman 
of the Tribunal, which was concurred in by Judge Entezam, contains the following sentence: 


“It might be added that the boundary proposed by me for the greater part of its length 
roughly coincides with the boundary proposed by my learned colleague, Mr. Bebler.” 


I cannot say that I am satisfied with the Award. I expressed my views the other day 
when I made a statement. I entirely agree with what the Home Minister said a little earlier. 
However, our natural disappointment at having succeeded only to the extent of 90 per cent, 
and not 100 per cent as we would naturally have liked, should not colour our judgement 
as to where our duty lies. We propose to honour our international commitment in the earnest 
hope that the settlement of this issue will close an unfortunate chapter of conflict and 
promote the development of normal relations between these two neighbouring countries. 


The assertion by some hon. Members that the dispute between India and Pakistan did 
not exist is somewhat strange. How can hon. Members forget that there was not only. a 
dispute but that there were bilateral talks about it and there was even a conflict ? Since 
these failed to produce the desired results, the matter was referred to arbitration with the 
approval of our Parliament. I should like to recall the words of the late Prime Minister, 
Shri Lal Bahadur Shastri, as to what the Tribunal was meant to do and has done. He had 
‘stated : 


“IT would, at this stage, like to explain why the agreement referred both to the 
determination and demarcation of the boundary. It has been the Government of India’s 
consistent stand that the boundary in question is already well established and officially 
settled and that what remains to be done is its demarcation on the ground. On this point, 
however, Pakistan has had a difference of opinion with us. Pakistan’s contention has 
been that the boundary is yet to be determined. This difference had to be resolved either 
by negotiations or by reference to an impartial tribunal.” 


He went on to say : 


“Once the boundary has been determined in this manner, the next step of demarcation 
on the ground will be taken.” 


NLD 11 पक 222 age tatty 
Wns UU RRR 
er 


गज 


का 2 
a 
mee 
४ 
pS tatty 
ox ४ 
ta 
tee 
Beri 
oa 
tt 
we 
Bo 
2289 Ney 
x 
>, 
9) 22222 
: 
ey 
> जब 
2५०४ 
गे 
224 
es 
oe 
& 5 
22 


The Tribunal has now determined the boundary alignment, and I should like to express 
our appreciation of Judge Bebler’s fine judgement. I should also like to place on record 
Government’s thanks to Secretary-General, U Thant for the help provided to the Tribunal 
by the United Nations and, finally, I should like to express our deep appreciation of the 
services rendered by all our eminent counsels and concerned officials. They have worked 
with great thoroughness and a deep sense of devotion and those who read the entire report 
of the Award will be impressed by their work. 


Some hon. Members referred to the views of the hon. Member, Shri N. Chatterjee. He 
is away in the Andamans. But when he heard certain radio reports of the views expressed 
he sent me a telegram. He has stated that the terms of the cease-fire agreement between 
India and Pakistan definitely commit them to two things—acceptance of the Award by 
both the countries and execution of the Award by the Tribunal in the event of any difficulty 
in the actual delineation of the boundary as declared by the Tribunal. He has further added 
that the presentation of India’s case was both comprehensive and cogent and full justice 
was done to India’s case by the members of the Indian Delegation. 


The hon. Member, Shn Pashabhai Patel, has spoken of the possibility of the utilisation 
of the Narmada project in reclamation work in Kutch. The position 1s that the Narmada 
Water Resources Development Committee has recommended a master plan for the optimum 
and integrated development of the water resources of the river Narmada. This envisages 
the irrigation of 4 lakhs of acres in the little Rann and 4.5 lakhs of acres in the Great 
Rann of Kutch. I appreciate the constructive suggestion made by the hon. Member. Now 
that the Award has settled the boundary, we should get down to work and develop this 
area so that it can also contribute to the prosperity of the country. 


The debate has raised the general issue of our relations with Pakistan. Shn Madhok 
contended that we could never have good relations with Pakistan. This at best, is a counsel 
of despair. The Government cannot proceed on the presumption of perpetual hostility. 
However distant the prospect might be of fashioning our relations with Pakistan so that 
they become peaceful, normal and friendly and however tortuous the route, it must always 
be our endeavour to work constantly to make Pakistan realise that its interests too lie in 
friendly and co-operative relations with India. 


I was glad to find that there was an understanding among some hon. Members of the 
Opposition that as a Government we must take a responsible and reasonable position in 
the matter of Indo-Pakistan relations. 


Some hon. Members have expressed concern regarding the defence and security of 
this important border area. I quite appreciate their concern and also, of course, the concern 
specially of the people of Gujarat. Once the Kutch boundary has been delineated after this 
award, no one should be in any doubt that border, like any other border of the country, 
shall be defended by the combined strength of the nation and by the valour of our valiant 
armed forces. 


ate he ak ae ae मं Me he fe 


eta 015, 


Toe 


० 
Dow 


wae letaTe 


291 


...Although the motion brought before the House purports to be a general one, the 
debate, in fact, has centred around the Kutch Award almost exclusively and very few other 
points. were raised. Anyhow, I have dealt with most of the economic and other matters 
just a few days ago when I was replying to the debate on the President’s Address. Hon. 
Members have talked of the unity and the integrity of the country. As I just now mentioned, 
we do not call their patriotism into question. I believe that they are sincerely concerned 
with these important questions and that is why I draw their attention to these issues time 
and time again. 


I was very glad to hear hon. Member, Shri Krishnamoorthy, denounce the burning of 
the national flag in Coimbatore, Madurai and other places and the insult to the national 
anthem on another occasion. What has happened, whether in Coimbatore or in Madurai 
or in Assam, is naturally something which saddens us all. I sincerely hope that the 
misguided young people will realise the folly of their actions and that all responsible leaders, 
no matter to what party they belong, will join together to uphold the dignity of our national 
emblems. 


All movements, all attitudes which create tension or fissiparous tendencies or separatist 
feelings, whether they are between people who speak different languages or live in different 
States or whether they are between people who profess different religions, castes and creeds, 
must be put down strongly. It is only then that we can build a firm base from which we 
can defend and strengthen our unity and our integrity. 


Unity of the Country* 


Mr. Speaker, Sir, it is after a long time that we have a motion of No-Confidence which 
is ON some specific issues. Even though such motions have become matters of routine, 
which was what my hon. friend Shri H.N. Mukerjee objected to, if you have them on 
specific issues it is certainly better than the usual omnibus ones. Although the motion is 
on specific issues there were many hon. Members, and some parties, who did not want to 
join in the censure motion, but they still took the opportunity to bring in issues of their 
own which had been deliberately left out by the movers of the motion. 


First of all, I would like to congratulate all those who have succeeded 1n these elections. 
We would certainly have liked our Congress colleagues to win but we accept the verdict 
of the electorate. And those who are sitting in this House or in the Assemblies should not 
fee] that we resent their presence. On the contrary, we welcome them and we hope they 
will make valuable contribution to the debates and the work of this House and of the various 
Assemblies. 


He मंप् मं ae i ae eK aK 


Somebody said ‘“‘very kind of you”.** Certainly, I am always kind. I will take this 
Opportunity to congratulate them. 


I do not know why Shri Vajpayee is hiding behind there. I was very unhappy about 
what he said yesterday. He said that I had abused his party during the elections, but I am 
glad to say that he took the right attitude with regard to abuses namely, that he did not 
mind abuses. However, I would like to make it very clear that I did not abuse his party or 
any others. I did not abuse, but I did speak very strongly about certain aspects, not only 
conceming his party but with regard to other parties also, which to my mind were not in 
the national interest. 


me aK a ae ae a we aR के 


Well, I will come to that point later.*** 


* Replying to the debate on the Motion of No-Confidence in the Council of Ministers, LS. Deb., 20 February, 1969, 
cc. 206-23. 
** A Member intervened to say, “Very kind of you”. 
*** Responding to Shri S. M. Banerjee’s remark, “Except the Congress”. 


293 


It was with regard to communalism. I do not want to deal with that matter now. I will 
- come to that also later. In respect of Jan Sangh, I said we are not against Jan Sangh; nor 
did I te!l anybody not to vote for Jan Sangh. But I did appeal to the public that in respect 
of the parties which had certain postures which were not conducive to national peace, 
harmony and unity, the public themselves should make these parties understand that this 
attitude must be discarded. On that I spoke strongly. I did not speak strongly against any 
particular party but against what I considered was a wrong attitude, and I certainly spoke 
very strongly about that. 


Now I do not really have to say anything against the hon. Member, Shri Dandeker. It 
was a little amusing to see what paper he chose to quote from, because we all know that 
amongst the newspapers which appear in England, The Daily Express is one which has 
been consistently anti-Indian. During our freedom struggle, after our freedom struggle, 
whether we were fighting with Pakistan or whatever we were doing, it has taken a very 
consistent anti-Indian stand, and it was a little amusing that of all the newspapers which 
appeared there, he should have chosen this particular one from which to quote. 


The main question raised by the mover of the motion was with regard to the Senas. 
When I spoke just now about the Jan Sangh, and in all the speeches I made a point not 
only to speak against the communal point of view, in an anti-communal stance, but also 
against any kind of attitude which promoted casteism, regionalism or parochialism which 
could make anybody who was an Indian citizen feel that he did not enjoy equal rights 
with any other citizen, regardless of where he was living. He might not be living at a place 
today but he might like to live there tomorrow. Today he may be living in Delhi, but 
tomorrow he may want to live in Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh, West Bengal or somewhere 
else. Every Indian citizen must have that freedom. 


I do not know what to say. We use strong words on all occasions and sometimes when 
we really want to stress something, we have to use’ the same words. What has happened 
recently in Bombay, what has happened between the people of Telengana and Andhra, or 
what has happened in other parts of India, is certainly most deplorable and absolutely 
indefensible. 


I have spoken out very strongly against Shiv Sena and all such senas on various 
occasions, and I have absolutely no hesitation in saying here also that such movements 
constitute a very serious threat to the development, progress and unity of the country. 


Yesterday the Home Minister dealt at length with the unfair charge that there had been 
either inaction or neglect in this matter by the State Government or by the Centre. It is not 
always easy to decide when action is to be taken. Sometimes when you take action a little 
earlier, it provokes agitation and the hon. Members are the first to ask ““Why was action 
taken merely when a person had said something, but actually nothing had been done ?” 
So, it is very difficult, sitting at a distance, to judge the time for taking action. I am very 
clear in my mind that, apart from this incident—and I want also to assure the many Members 
of the Opposition who took up this point yesterday—we must not think that the matter is 
over. We have now to consider how this should be dealt with. But this is not a matter which 


can be dealt with only by Government. This is a matter in which we must all do some 
heart-searching among ourselves... .(/nterruption). 


se fe ak He ak ek ak 


Certainly it is a responsibility of the Government but in the state of affairs and the 
politics of the country as they are today, I think, every party plays an important role.* 
Previously other parties were not in government and they could perhaps say that they had 
nothing to do with such issues, but now every party has a hand in government. Some of 
them have it today; some may not have it today. But it is not only a question of being in 
government; the question is when you find a solution what attitude will the people take, 
because if any party decides then to exploit the situation no matter how good the solution 
may be it cannot be a lasting solution and it can only bring forth new problems. This is 
what has been happening. Many solutions have been found but somehow the question gets 
re-opened. There are many in our country—we cannot deny it-who do feel very much 
emotionally involved whenever it is a question of community, region, language or caste. 
Conditions in the modern world are such that it is somewhat natural because people want 
things, and there are not enough things to go round. Therefore matters like caste, region 
and so on are exploited. 


I am very sorry that the name of one of our great and lion-hearted heroes has been 
associated with such a movement. | had the privilege of having part of my education in 
the part of the country where Shivaji operated, that is, Poona, and most of our excursions 
and so on were to some of the old forts which he captured. I grew up to regard him as a 
national hero and not as a Maharashtrian hero or as a hero of a particular region. Although 
I have not been connected in the same way with Sardar Lachit of Assam, he also had a 
great name in our history. These are people who belong to the nation and I think that it is 
very unfortunate that their names should in any way be associated with movements which 
are limited to a very small or particular part of the country. 


ae He मर me afc a a aie ae 


Obviously it is the Sena that is using his name.** His name should be for all-India 
movements which go towards building up the country and making the country greater. 


ae ok भर a fe मं af sh मर 


Bombay is a cosmopolitan city. All these big cities have been built by many 
communities. People from different parts of the country have brought in their money, their 
industry and their talent. This is how these cities have grown and prospered and any 
movement which aims at shutting out anybody from them will result in bringing the cities 
down; instead oftheir rising and growing and adding to the general strength of the country, 
they will become much narrower in character. 


* Replying to Shri Ranga’s observations, ‘What is the contribution of Government ? You have taken up the 
responsibility”’. 
** Replying to Shri Piloo Mody’s question, “‘Who did that ?” 


295 


I would like to make one brief point in passing and that 15, in all such debates, some 

hon. Members have a great deal to say about the police and we talk about them as if the 

- police belongs to some other country. Now, they may behave well or not well but they are 
‘Indians. Most of them are from relatively poor families also. They do not come from the 
top families or from what are called the ‘exploiting classes’ as some people call them. We 

all have to help in creating an atmosphere where they can have a more positive attitude 
and a more friendly attitude. I think, this also is the responsibility of all of us. Much has 
changed already. The police training is not as it was. There is a constant effort made to 
see that they view their job not only as a law and order job but also of helping the people. 


me afe ah 1 ae a eK I 


No, I am certainly not satisfied*. We have had plenty to say about that in this House. 
The Home Minister spoke about it. We have spoken about it in the House and outside. 
That is not the only occasion. There have been other occasions also which are not 
satisfactory. There are times when they lose their heads, or certain individuals amongst 
them lose their heads. That happens amongst many other people also, not only amongst 
the police. 


All that I am trying to say is that these issues should not be exploited for narrow party 
loyalties nor used for mutual recrimination or blaming one another. These are, as many 
Members have pointed out, larger national issues and we must all do some heart-searching 
about them. 


I was deeply touched by the manner in which the hon. Member, Shri Nath Pai, spoke 
yesterday because he, obviously, felt the matter very deeply and he was speaking with 
great emotion. We share that emotion and that deep distress. As I said, unless we raise 
these matters to a higher level, it will not be possible to solve them. I do not wish to indulge 
in any accusations because I am fully aware that these narrow-minded elements of one 
kind or the other do exist amongst us all. Perhaps, no party is free from them. But some 
parties have stressed various points. For instance, as I said earlier, the Jan Sangh has a 
point of view about minorities which I do not think is in the interest of the unity of the 
country. Then, we have other parties here who think that only some of the people are 
“people” and the others are somebody else. It is not being made clear at all as to who the 
others are. If they are not people of the country, who are they, where can they go, if they 
leave the country ? 


ek के tote ok a ah ak 


As | said earlier, there are still many people in the country who do fall prey to feelings 
of communalism, casteism, regionalism, etc. I have not said, neither during the elections 
nor in this House nor anywhere else, that the Congress Party 1s perfect. But we have made 
a constant effort to try and fight these divisive tendencies from the beginning. We do not 
deny them.... 


* Responding to Shri M.L. Sondhi’s question, “Are you satisfied with that the potice did in the Indraprastha Bhavan?” 


ae ni a He oe a Heo 


So, the question is of seeing how, if this kind of feelings persist in the country, we can 
see that, instead of their being exploited, they are channelised in a direction where they 
add to national strength.... 


मंद कं मे a मंध a ae जप के 


Government has done many things*. I do not think that I am expected now to take 
each item and say what the Government has done in the matter. Usually, when something 
has happened, each matter has been taken up for discussion and the Home Minister or 
whoever 18 in charge has dealt with it in great detail and every Member, or at least many 
Members, have been given full opportunity of expressing their views. This is not the time 
to go into those details.... 


ae a ak a ak Hea ak 


Unless we agree on the philosophy, it is very difficult to go on. The major philosophy 
to be now agreed upon is whether all parties represented in the House do consider this as 
a national problem and are, therefore, willing to help in its solution. This is the philosophy 
that has to be agreed upon. Government can, and does, deal with it through many methods. 
I have been in constant touch with the Chief Ministers of Maharashtra and Andhra Pradesh 
throughout these days, trying to find out what has been happening from day to day and 
what other measures could be taken. They are doing all they can. There are many problems 
which are not solved. I am not saying that all the problems are solved. But whenever any 
solution is found—there is no solution which can please everybody-, there is always room 
for creating a movement or creating a feeling or rousing emotion or rousing passions among 
the people to exploit whatever is not to their liking. That is why I am asking for the 
co-operation of all parties. There are many matters in which some of us are not involved; 
the people of some States are involved; there are other matters in which the people of 
other States are involved.... 


मंध् अं; मे मे: मंद और मंद afc he 


I had not thought of replying to such a point, but I do want to say that the whole House 
is aware that I am living, and quite happily living, in an exceedingly small house. But I 
do not think that it is the right house as permanent residence for a Prime Minister mainly 
because of the inconvenience which it causes to the people who come to visit the Prime 
Minister; I am not only talking of high dignitaries but also of all Members of Parliament. 
I might say that Members of Parliament from almost all parties—not the hon. Member’s 
Party but many other parties—have complained to me.... (Interruptions) 


ae He कं we aR me oh oe 


* Replying to Shri Ranga who wanted to know the positive contribution of the Government towards maintaining law 
and order. 


297 


The proposal is not to build a large house but to build a house which will be functional 
~ for the duties of the Prime Minister of this great country. 


eo ak ate a ak af a के 


I think the hon. Member had not heard what I had said. I said ‘permanent residence’ .* 


In the course of the debate it was perhaps natural that a lot should be said about the 
mid-term elections. In a democracy, parties do go up and do go down also. There is nothing 
strange about this. Yet, we seem to get very excited every time one seat goes here or goes 
there. The non-Congress parties are not used to winning. So, naturally, when they win, 
there 18 a great deal of excitement. We also are not used to losing; so, when we lose we 
also have a good deal of excitement. 


me मंध ae ae 2K गैर me ae ae 


It is time now that we take democracy in its stride, and we welcome those who win 
and sympathise with those who do not win. 


The political scene has changed. 1 think it is ndiculous to say, as some hon. Members 
have said, that nothing has been done for the last 20 years. Just before I started speaking, 
it was the tail end of the Question Hour, and I came into the House just in time to see here 
an hon. Member from the Swatantra Party talking about the improved economic picture, 
the going up of exports.... 


a मर मैर a oie मर ae मंद ak 


Whether the hon. Member from the Swatantra Party or the Jan Sangh would like to 
believe it or not,** the economic picture has improved. It has not improved a very great 
deal but it has improved and it has improved after a great deal of hardship and very many - 
hardships which the country faced. As the President has nghtly said in his Address, it is 
not the Government alone which has faced all these difficulties, but it is the people of 
India, and I think that every ttme we make these remarks that nothing has changed, we 
are Casting aspersions not merely on the Government but really on the people of India 
who have faced these difficulties with ttemendous courage and endurance. 


Recently, during these elections, I had the opportunity of going to many villages. Of 
course, no one will deny that there is poverty in this country, but no one will deny also 
that there have been vast changes, changes not only on the visible tangible things that one 
can see-these are also there—but changes in the outlook of the people. I do not want to 
depend upon the verdict of foreigners, but quite often our friends opposite are quoting 
from them. Recently, there was somebody who had lived in a certain village about seventeen 
years ago and who had worked there. He has returned there now and has now spoken about 
the many changes which have come about. This village is not one where there is any special 


* Replying to Shri Bal Raj Madhok who wanted to know whether the residence of the Prime Minister would change 
whenever the Prime Minister changed. 


** Responding to some Members’ remarks, “He was from the Jan Sangh and not from the Swatantra Party...”. 


programme or any special effort. It is just one of the ordinary villages of North India, and 
it is not a village in one of the advanced States like Punjab or any other State which is 
advanced in agriculture or in anything else. 


a oa मै मंध मंद ae a के 


What has changed the people ? It is democracy which has changed them. It is 
development which has changed them. It is progress which has changed them, and we 
have brought about these changes. We have to take cognizance of the fact that this has 
brought about an entire change in the outlook of the people because there is today a whole 
new post-Independence generation which takes freedom for granted, not only national 
freedom but freedom of speech and all the other freedoms that we have... 


ak ah ak ea के ak a ae 


They want the benefits of science and technology. They have new problems. They are 
facing new challenges and they seek new answers to them. I do not think that this is our 
failure. I think it 1s our success that the people to day are giving up their old sense of 
resignation and apathy. Today, they have new problems and they are seeking new answers 
and they are out to get them, and in that process they will try out many things; they may 
make mistakes; they may do something which we may not consider right, but nevertheless, 
they have the freedom to do it, and we accept that freedom. We certainly do not want our 
people to be resigned to poverty or want or to any of the other difficulties to which they 
are subject now. But we know that all those things cannot be done suddenly. 


I am not saying that there are no regional disparities. We do know that in every State, 
even in the so-called advanced States, there are pockets which are economically backward 
and where much needs to be done. We are making an effort in the Plan to see how it can 
be done. But it cannot be done even in the range of a plan because the problem is far too 
large. 


I think it was Shri George Fernandes who had made some remarks about illiteracy. I 
have got the census figures in regard to how literacy has grown. I am sorry that paper has 
got mixed up and I do not find it just now, but I am willing to send the information to him 
later. Again, I might say that I am saying this not because I am complacent or satisfied; I 
am not, I do not think that any of us can afford to be satisfied. But it is not night to keep 
on repeating that nothing has been done. I can say that things are being done, but they are 
not sufficient, and much more has to be done and that is a position with which nobody 
will quarrel. 


मंद afc ake मं: ak मं meh कं 


A tremendous deal has been done for those who are willing to see*; but if he keeps 
his eyes closed, it does not matter what amount of progress has been made... 


ae ok मै जप गंध मं Hea 


* Replying to Shri Kanwarlal Gupta’s question, “How much has been done?” 


pte 6० 


Yesterday, the Home Minister expressed our view by wishing well to the Opposition 
~ and to all the non-Congress Governments that may come into being and he added our wish 
that the United Front might also be able to keep their unity, whatever their friends, and = 
whatever their views and mixed persuasions may be. We know that last time they were . 
not able to stand the weight of their unity. I hope that now their friends are even larger in 
number and the weight is even greater they will have the strength and broad enough 
shoulders to keep them. oe 
I have said this on various occasions and I would like to repeat it here that we offer 
full co-operation to all those who have been elected and all the Governments which have 
come or will come into being. The Government of India will deal fairly with all the States. 
Here, you must realise that it is not only the non-Congress States that think we are unfair, 
but it is also the Congress States that think so, and that is due to something which is beyond 
our control, namely the very limited resources at our disposal. But within those limited 
resources, we shall certainly do whatever we can. Certainly, I must say here that whatever 
the Members of the various parties may say on the floor of the House, some of their leaders cs 
who were Chief Ministers in the States have tried to be helpful and co-operative, but of 
course on some matters they have not been, and I am sure the hon. Members are fully 
aware of this also. 


The Centre does want to co-operate. But co-operation is not so easy when it is unilateral. के 
In this, we have to sit together. We do expect some co-operation from the State : 
Governments also, specially on matters which concem not only that Government but have 
repercussions in other parts of the country. So I sincerely hope that since we are looking 


at some of these problems from the much larger national point of view, we will also keep 2 
this in view as to how we can co-operate. Hon. Members have remarked, the political : 
picture has changed and we have to see how to keep the unity of the country in this : 


changing picture where there are governments of different persuasion in different States S 
which have to work together, to keep the country together. This can only be if we all sit : 
together and find some way of co-operation. It may be that you cannot do it all at once : 
but if every party would like to lay stress on its own points then again it will be very difficult 
to keep the different States together. 


ae मं मे ae aK और ee se ae 


It is enough if the Chief Ministers decide, not all of us.* 


Talking of elections again, this time also there were many prophecies about them, but 
our people have belied the prophecies of cynics and prophets of doom. The House is aware 
that there was even an attempt to boycott the elections. Nevertheless, a large number of 
people did participate and only in 28 out of a lakh odd stations was a repoll found necessary. 


* Replying to Shri S.M. Banerjee's suggestion, “Let us al] decide”. 


I think we should take satisfaction from these results which do not belong to one party or 
another but to the great people of India and to this great country. 


मंच गंध मर a मर मर ek मे 


The matter of corruption also has been repeatedly discussed*. It is not limited to any 
one part of the country or another. 


aK i a ae aK a मै के के 


We have said repeatedly that wherever there is something wrong, certainly it should 
be looked into and a remedy found. What I am trying to say here is that I have not gone 
into some very specific issues raised because they are going to come up in this very budget 
session, whether during the budget debate or in the debate on the President’s Address. 
Therefore, I did not wish to take up time on that here now (/nterruptions). 


When we speak of unity, we have to see that we transcend our narrow party interests 
and reject any course intended to bring our system into contempt or bring about the slightest 
crack in the unity of the country or the slightest feeling of insecurity to any citizen of India. 
I am sure that with this all nghtminded people will agree. 


I know that sometimes people take up a cause which seems to them just. But we have 
found in every case that it is not possible to fully control these things. I am specially 
unhappy to hear from many places where there was trouble that a large number of children 
get involved. This is neither promoting the cause which they have at heart nor promoting 
the interests of these young people who are at an impressionable stage of their lives. We 
must all see how we can keep them out of such disturbances. 


aK Ae ae ae ae 3 Mok ak 


We have never started anything like this**. When the country was not free, it was an 
entirely different situation. At that time, all citizens had to get together to free the country. 
I am glad that we did it. I am glad during the fighting on our borders, the entire country 
got together. But this is not the way to solve problems between one State and another or 
between Indians living in the same State. 


It is this kind of violence and disturbance which must be deplored and condemned in 
the strongest possible terms. I have no hesitation in doing so. I should like to assure 
members from all parts of the country—in this we seek the co-operation of all the parties— 
that it is the Government’s endeavour to enable all the Indian nationals—to live and work 
freely in any part of the country. We must work for an India which is one and which is not 
fragmented, as our great poet Tagore said, by narrow domestic walls, an India in which 
there are no high or low, no privileged or under-privileged, and no ‘sons of the soil’ other 
than free and equal citizens. 


* Replying to Shri Om Prakash Tyagi’s question, “What about the corruption going on in the country?" 
** Replying to Shri Girraj Saran Singh’s remark, “She herself started it.” 


31 


Wi 21 


We should take up these problems at this level. We have been discussing various 

_ problems. If in this session we can narrow them down to specific problems, I am sure it 

will be possible to deal with them in a way which would be satisfactory to all people and 

which would be helpful to the State Governments. I should like to express my deep sorrow 
at what happened in certain places... 


ae ak ak 1 मर मं sem मंद 


I have touched upon the basic causes. They are partly economic, partly political and 
partly social. 


मर मै ae ek मं ae ah a 


Unemployment comes within the economic problems**. That is why I say that we must 
sit together and try to work out some solutions... (Jnterruptions) 


aie 2 2c a गंध 2k 3K 2K 3k 


I do not think that this is the nght place to take up all these matters***. I have made 
an indirect reference to all these matters, though I have not mentioned them specifically. 
When a solution is found to a difficult problem, it cannot please everybody; it leaves a 
loophole over which some sections of the people are aroused and they are exploited by 
different parties... (/nterruptions.) | am sorry we cannot have a dialogue here in this way... 
(Interruptions. ) 


ae 2 a ie मं a aK मंद 3c 


Any solution that is found leaves some cause for dissatisfaction for some sections of 
our people. We must get together and find the largest measure of agreement and arrive at 
a basis and all the political parties should help in this role. Then only can difficult problems 
be solved. Otherwise, no matter what report is accepted, the way is left open for some 
kind of disturbance and agitation. All problems cannot be solved merely by the Government; 
they can only be solved if all the parties agree to a common understanding since the country 
is facing such serious problems. We may have different views with regard to economic 
‘development and so on, but on other matters which affect us all we should get together. 


ae a a ae a oe मंद अर मं 


This is not the place to discuss the whole matter****. It had been discussed and some 
criteria was suggested. We have to see that everybody accepts the criteria. I request my 
hon. friends to withdraw their motion of no-confidence and decide to get together and try 
to find solutions to our great national problems. 


* Replying to Shri Hem Barua’s question, “What have you done to remove the basic cause of this unrest.” 


** Responding to Shri Hem Barua’s observation, “In Assam the number of unemployed is four lakhs.” 
*** A Member asked, “What about the implementation of Mahajan report 7” 
**** Responding to Shri Bal Raj Madhok’s observation, “When there are disputes among States, there should be some 
national criteria on the basis of which a settlement can be made. You do rot lay down any criteria but work up 
the regional feelings.” | 


aera Beara re a a Ra aa नए dee a a a 


Accountability of the Executive to Parliament* 


Mr. Speaker, Sir, it is very difficult to know how to reply to this motion of no-confidence 
because, whereas certain items have been mentioned in the actual motion, many of the 
speeches have touched upon very much wider fields, bringing in, as usual, the public sector, 
socialism and all kinds of other matters which were not in the motion. Some of the speeches 
were in a very light-hearted vein and I should have liked to reply in like manner except 
that 1t 1s necessary to put straight certain facts so as to remove misunderstandings from 
the public mind. 


As far as Congo is concerned, I have only one thing to say. I have been indeed amused 
as some hon. Members remarked from the other side, because once I did listen to Shri 
Asoka Mehta. The result was not one of my most conspicuously successful actions. 


Since yesterday there has been a pitiful effort to put Humpty-Dumpty together again. 
Some people had seen visions of a grand alliance but evidently they could not win a vote 
of confidence even from their own people. So, Humpty-Dumpty had a fall and except for 
Shri Piloo Mody, who always sound well even when he talks utter nonsense, the others 
could not even work up any fervour or eloquence in their speeches in order to put together 
the pieces. Even though Shri Dange came to their rescue and gave them suggestions as to 
who should hold what portfolio, in their shadow Cabinet, their hopes for their shadow 
Cabinet have been completely shattered and I am afraid there is not even a shadow of a 


shadow Cabinet. 


The motion broadly lists four grounds. The first is the charge that the elections in Kerala 
are being rigged. As we have been told by my colleague the Law Minister and others the 
electoral rolls were revised in January of this year. Bye-elections were held after that and 
no complaints were made that these elections were not fair. Mention has been made here 


about the Governor’s visit to me. 


ate मंद मर ae aie अप ae hc मर 


The Government is not here to interfere with the Electuon Commission or the Election 
Commissioner. And I should like to say that one of the things about which we can 
legitimately be proud in India since our independence 1s the fact that, except for occasional 
isolated cases, our elections have been free and fair and have given the people unfettered 
Opportunity to express their wish. The very fact that almost every party has had the 


* Replying to the debate on the Motion of No-Confidence in the Council of Ministers, LS. Deb, 29 July, 1970, 
cc. 351-65. 


303 


opportunity of being elected to form a government, elected to power and also removed 
~ from power, is a proof if proof is needed, of the strength and justice of our electoral system. aes 


ae मर me ie a मेष मंद a 


We have not only an independent Election Commission, but the law courts also exercise 
full vigilance to ensure the fairness of our elections. It 1s rather unfortunate that any kind 
of doubt is cast on the election system which has worked effectively all these years. 


It is also difficult to believe that all of a sudden a State Government in a part of India 
which is known for its high political consciousness and literacy should meddle with the 
electoral system. However, as I said to Shri Gopalan when he came to see me about this, I 
have referred this matter to the Election Commissioner that such a complaint had been 
made and I was told that he had looked into the matter. There is, as you all know, still 
time for any objections to be raised in this matter. But I can assure the hon. House that we 
stand fully for free and fair elections. We are not concerned with what party comes into 
power. Naturally everybody would like their party to win but not at the cost of fair play or 
damage to the electoral system. We will never stand for. As you all know, as the Central 
Government we have given support and cooperation to all governments of whatever hue 
they were, which came into power anywhere in the country. 


For the first time there was something new in this No-confidence Motion and that was 
the strange alliance which we witnessed. As was effectively pointed out by Shn Chandra 
Jeet Yadav, the cat was let out of the bag by the hon. Member, the Swatantra spokesman, 
when he delivered a broadside against socialism and nationalisation, which of course they 
always call State capitalism. 


As usual, all kinds of other baseless charges and insinuations have been made. Reckless 
personal charges were made against some of my colleagues and against my Secretariat. I . 
do not need to defend them because they are capable of taking care of themselves, but I 
can only feel sorry that some hon. Members simply cannot get away from this kind of 
vituperation and also from giving a casteist or a regional bias to anything that happens in 
the country. 


poet 
oN, 
ats 
De 
rd 004 
Py 
% 
22: ws 
= 
ce x 
रा 
fa 
Ate oA 
१241 
बु् 
By 
vy 
ae 
275 


af मैट ak a af af HOH ak 


Although the question of the Kerala elections has been brought in as a bait to the 
Members of the CPI (M), it is obvious that the entire motion is designed as a personal 
attack on me on the supposed concentration of power in my hands. In fact, reference has 
been made to the recent reshuffle of the Cabinet and the transfer of some departments to 
the Cabinet Secretariat. I did not create the Cabinet Secretariat. It has long been in existence. 
I did not invent the Prime Minister’s Secretariat either. Contrary to what some member 
has said, the Prime Minister’s Secretariat in its present form was not designed by me but 
by my distinguished predecessor, Shri Lal Bahadurji Shastri. Since then we have answered 
questions in this House on the Secretariat, giving the numbers of officials. There has been 
no addition to the Secretariat nor is any addition contemplated because of any of the changes 
which have taken place because no extra work has come to that Secretariat. 


The function of the Cabinet Secretariat is to provide effective coordination between 
the ministries of Government. It also takes up certain items of study, analysis and research. 
When the Planning Commission shed its executive function in response to the desire of 
this honourable House, the Cabinet Secretariat took on some of this work. It has to take 
‘initiative in several matters of economic coordination which were previously being attended 
to by the Planning Commission. The three Departments which have been transferred to 
the Cabinet Secretariat are the Personnel Department, the Electronics Department and the 
Scientific and Industrial Research Department. The Department of Personnel has been 
newly constituted and placed under the Cabinet Secretariat, as the House knows, on the 
recommendation of the A.R.C. 


Regarding the intelligence agencies, I had thought that there were several experts in 
this House on public administration and at least they should have set the records straight. 
As is well-known, in England as well as in many other countries, Intelligence is directly 
with the Prime Minister and I am sure that these countries did not take inspiration from 
the Cabinet reshuffle in this country. 


The C.B.I. and the Special Police Establishment have been mainly concerned ‘with the 
eradication of corruption from public service. It has necessarily to be a part of the Personnel 
Department. Even in the Home Ministry, the work was being looked after on the Services 
side under a separate Secretary (Services). 


The Directorate of Revenue Intelligence was transferred from the Ministry of Finance 
to the Cabinet Secretariat in order to ensure better coordination with the Central Bureau 
of Investigation. The C.B.I. has already a wing dealing with economic offences and the 
work of the Directorate of Revenue Intelligence is very largely related to such offences. 


Some members made a remark about the committee of Appointments saying that 
previously there was the Home Minister, the Prime Minister and the Minister concerned 
but now, since the Home and the Prime Minister was the same person, there would only 
be two persons. So, I should like to inform the House that the Committees of the Cabinet 
were formed soon after the reshuffle, but unfortunately, they were not declared 
immediately—that I had decided that Shri Chavanji should remain on that Committee, since 
he was dealing with this question and with the people who would be concerned will be in 
these Committees. Apart from that, I would like to point out that none of these Committees 
works on the basis of voting. The persons sit together and it is always a question of having 


discussion and coming to a decision. 


So far as the transfer of the C.S.IR. to the Cabinet Secretariat is concerned, the hon. 
Members will remember that the Prime Minister, from the very beginning of its existence 
has been the ex-officio President. Therefore, this does not really change the situation. 


As for the future development of electronics in India, this also has been a subject of 
long and anxious debate in both Houses ever since the publication of the Bhabha Report 
on Electronics. The future development of electronics, has such wide ranging application 
not only in defence but also with regard to communications, radio television, etc., hence 
the fast development of the industry has become a matter of crucial importance to the 


305 


.country. Several Ministries and Departments of the Governments as well as the private 
séctor are consumers of the product of the electronics industry. It was in order to give a 
special impetus to the development of electronics that the Government have been 
considering the setting up of a special organisational structure. The allocation of the 
electronics Department to the Cabinet Secretariat was made to enable this structure to be 
built which, we hope, will be very soon. 


ae ae ok ie और अर me ae और 


It may seem amusing to you*. But for most such organisations that have to be set up, 
with which many Ministries are concermed, it is more convenient for coordinated working 
if at this stage the Prime Minister is there. Similarly a great deal was said about ministerial 
responsibility being diluted and collective responsibility being discounted. Nothing could 
be farther from the fact. Many hon. Members do not seem to have a correct appreciation 
of what is meant by collective responsibility. All Cabinet decisions are collectively taken. 
(Interruptions). Some decisions are taken by individual Ministers but we are all collectively 
responsible and these decisions are collectively supported and defended by the entire 
Government. In modern Government, several spot decisions must also be taken and 
Ministers who take them do so in the full knowledge that they will have to defend them 
on the floor of the House and in the full trust that they will have the full support of their 
colleagues. All controversial matters are brought to the Cabinet itself or to one of its 
Committees. I do not have to point out that throughout last year my colleagues have come 
to this House and given the reasons for their decisions. They have won an open vote of 
the House. They have withstood many determined efforts to shake them and challenge 
them. Hon. Members from the Opposition had wrongly imagined that we on this side would 
not stand together. They have spent days and nights planning strategies and offering prayers 
to divide us. (/nterruptions) 


a ac अं मैप 2K a a He > 


They have set afloat all kinds of rumours of dissension but we have stood together 
with loyalty to one another and faith in our Party and full conviction in our policies. I 
may tel] the hon. Member opposite that what they could too achieve during this difficult 
year, they will certainly not be able to achieve in the coming months. 


Sir, I have respect for my colleagues, respect for their ability c<nd respect for their 
dedication to the welfare of the people and to the progress of this great nation. 
(Interruptions). That is why we have been able to work together and to introduce certain 
far-reaching changes in our national life. 1 do agree with the hon. Member, Shn Dwivedy, 
that much that we wanted to do we have not been able to do. We have not been able to 
proceed as fast as we would like to do. We have not said that we have done everything. 
But when you go ahead in a democratic way, it is a slower path than the other. I am not 
saying this to excuse ourselves because I fully realise that we must work more speedily 
and reach our goals more effectively. 


* Responding to a Member’s remark “It is all amusing”. 


Cabinet Government and Parliamentary Democracy are built on the principle that the 
overriding power and responsibility rests in the Legislature. Parliament is the master of 
Ministers and if you could put it that way, Ministers in turn are—I do not like the word 
‘master’—in a way over civil servants. Those who are propagating the myth of a powerful 
bureaucracy are in fact running down this Parliament and the work which it has been doing 
to guard the people’s interests. Now you can give the civil service any name you like, but 
the fact remains that whether you have a capitalist government or a socialist government 
or any other form of government, it has to have some kind of a civil service. 


If it is a large country, obviously that civil service will be large. And a country in which 
society itself takes upon itself the power and the duty to regulate economic and social life 
has to have the appropriate machinery to do it. But the hon. Member is right when he said 
that in a socialist State there will be more servants of the State, but they are servants of 
the people, not masters of the people. 


There may be, and there is, some inefficiency and there may also be some deadwood 
in the Administrative organisation. But we cannot deny that there are also fine people who 
are as good as any in the world. They are doing their work with ability and dedication. It 
would be a pity if the House were to do anything which would blunt these tools. This 1s 
not peculiar to our country, because, almost everywhere there is sometimes criticism against 
bureaucrats and even in countries and Governments which have far more advanced method 
than we can afford today. 


A statement of mine or rather a speech was quoted and in the attempt to show that 
there was some contradiction between that and a letter which I had written about our 
administrative service to a newly selected IAS officer. I don’t think that there is any 
contradiction between the two. Because, I do believe that we must give better status to 
Specialists. All over the world it has been realised that technical jobs must go to technician. 
But everywhere administrators and business managers also are being given more intensive 
training in new and modern methods. We have been choosing specialists for our technical 
posts so far as possible, but at no time has this meant that we should dispense with the 
administrative service. On the contrary, the administrative service must be given greater 
social orientation so as to be able to discharge its responsibilities effectively. 


Something has been said about the communal problem. But this problem has been 
thoroughly debated on earlier occasions and I leave it to the country to judge whose 
speeches have been provocative or have added to the tension in any particular area. 


The problem of the refugees is naturally one which is uppermost in the minds of most 
of us. They are facing very genuine hardships and this is a matter of grave concern and 
deep distress. The Government has indeed a heavy responsibility to settle and rehabilitate 
them with great speed. We are doing everything possible towards this end. Shn Samar 
Guha’s excitement was understandable. I entirely agree with what he said this morning 
about the political side of the problem. He mentioned also my visit to Calcutta. But, as I 
told him when I met him there that particular visit was for a limited purpose, that is to 
look into the implementation of the various decisions which had been taken earlier in Delhi. 


307 


And, the steps being taken for the refugees and their rehabilitation formed a considerable 

# part of this discussion, whether it was with political parties, whether it was with 
administrators or some of the other publicmen and-‘women whom I met, I have promised 
our friends from Bengal to visit the transit camps soon. 1 am sorry 1 could not go there on 
that occasion. 


This is hardly the occasion on which to speak about Manipur. But, since the matter 
was brought up, I would just like to say that this House is fully aware of the law and order 
situation there. It is obvious, whether it is Manipur or elsewhere, that the restoration of 
normal conditions is an essential precondition for any fair election. Yet we all know that 
this part of the country faces many difficult problems. We are looking into them. 


ae fe He We he अर ae मंच fe 


Shri Surendranath Dwivedy also spoke heatedly about land reforms. I do not think that 
it 1S Correct to say that our programmes are not making any headway even in the States 
where we are in control. I think there has never been greater consciousness at the Centre 
an in the States of the great importance of creating an equitable agrarian structure within 
the shortest possible time. 


In Bengal, we announced some months ago that the occupiers of land belonging to 
eligible categories would not be evicted and that their position would be regularised very 
soon. Earlier this month, the West Bengal Land Reforms Amendment Act was enacted. 
Its result will be to increase the burgadar’s share of the produce from 60 to 75 per cent, in 
cases where they themselves provide all the inputs. The conditions under which land owners 
are permitted to resume lands have been made more favourable to burgadars, and the nght 
of cultivation by them has been made hereditary. It has also been decided to enact fresh 
legislation on ceiling, fixing the ceiling in terms of family rather than individual units. 
The details are now being finalised. The Government of West Bengal have been told ta 
give this work the highest priority, that is, the re-distribution of waste and surplus land to 
eligible cultivator. In this matter, the State Government are reviewing the ceiling law and 
enforcing the existing ceilings with much greater rigour. (/nterruptions).. Detailed 
instructions have already gone out to district collectors, and notices have been served on 
several thousands of the largest owners of surplus land. The amendments to the Bihar 
Tenancy Act, carried out during President’s rule, are being implemented, so that even 
bataidars on oral lease are not liable to eviction. 


In UP, the ceiling laws are being reviewed. In Maharashtra, the rent payable by tenants 
to land-owners has been reduced to one-sixth of the produce, which 18 perhaps the lowest 
in the country. After many years, there is now real hope that land reforms, which have so 
long been talked about, are at last under way. 


The examples of Bihar and West Bengal during President’s rule conclusively show that 
the Central Government is earnestly engaged in carrying through the measures which it 
has been urging on other State Governments. 


The other problem which is very much on everybody’s mind is naturally that of 
unemployment. I fully share the concern expressed in this House and outside about this 


growing problem. But the only lasting remedy for unemployment and under-employment, 
particularly of skilled personnel such as engineers and technicians, lies in vigorous 
implementation of the plan and inclusion of specially labour-intensive programmes. 


224k ae 2k a ae ak 


The plan outlay for the current year has been stepped up by about Rs. 400 crore 
especially with a view to bring some improvement in the employment situation. We are 
examining how to speedily organise a land army, that is, enrolling cadres of skilled and 
unskilled workers to be put to work on specific projects of public utility. 


There was reference to the performance of nationalised banks. It may be that we did 
proceed a bit slowly for many reasons. But there is no basis for the criticism that benefits 
have not accrued to the small persons or the small farmers, although I concede that much 
remains to be done and must be done speedily. 


The number of borrowal accounts in the case of direct loans to agriculture went up 
from Rs. 1,34,849 at the end of June, 1969 to Rs. 2,97,670 by the end of March, 1970. 
The number of accounts for advances to retail traders and small business increased from 
28,037 at the end of June, 1969 to 70, 607 by the end of March, 1970. Similarly, the number 
of loans to self-employed persons increased impressively from 422 at the end of June, 
1969 to 22,030 by the end of March, 1970. The share of advances to neglected sectors, 
namely, agriculture, small scale industries, road transport operators, retail traders, small 
business etc. in the aggregate advances of the public sector banks increased from 14.6 per 
cent at the end of June, 1969 to 20.3 per cent by the end of March, 1970. 


There were some entirely false charges made regarding issuing of licences. Perhaps 
the House knows that the decision in all important cases is taken not by any individual 
Minister or by the Prime Minister but by the Cabinet as a whole. A ridiculous statement 
was made alleging that I had taken over licensing in my own hands. Nothing could be 
farther from the truth. All that has been decided is that the grant of licences in certain 
defined cases should be considered by the Committee on Economic Co-ordination on which 
all Ministers dealing with economic matters are represented. This is largely because this 
is a controversial matter, and many cases come within the purview of different Ministries 
also. Therefore, the question is not of concentration of power but of sharing responsibility 
and decision making power and bringing the collective judgment of a ministerial group to 
bear on these important problems of licensing. 

aie अर मर a ae भर me i a 


It has been alleged that the decisions taken on the grant of industrial licences have 
been inspired by dishonest motives. I have no hesitation in saying that this is a mischievous 
and reckless charge, and also an entirely dishonest charge. I have no hesitation in 
maintaining that the interest of the national economy and not narrow or party or personal 
interest guides our decisions. 

I have been compared, not for the first time, to Hitler, Stalin and Mussolini. If they 
had perhaps read more books, they could have used more names. I think the people will 
laugh at the preposterousness of these comparisons. 


सात 


It was somewhat dramatically stated that this country would not tolerate Hitler. I entirely 
dgree with this. In fact, this is what I myself have been saying. I have said it in the House; 
I have said it outside also. This country will not tolerate Hitler and what Hitlerism stands 
for. But we should know what it stands for, namely, the preaching of hatred against sections 
of the people, the building up of para-military organisations, the use of the lie, the big lie 
and the biggest lie and the readiness to use any and every method capture power. We do 
not believe in such methods ; we leave such methods to others. 


The biggest lie that has been told in this House on this occasion is the one that is now 
being constantly repeated about our subservience, as they say, to the Soviet Union. This, 
as the House and those Members who have been in the House for some time, will 
remember, is not a new charge. It was also made against my father. Some called him a 
Soviet stooge and others called him an American camp-follower, but he was an Indian, a 
proud Indian. Now, the same charge is being levelled against me. My concern is only for 
the people of India. These charges are not going to deflect us from seeking friendship with 
all nations because the country’s good requires it. And when the national interests demand 
it, we shall not hesitate to stand up against all nations. Somebody said : let us have one 
example. There is a very recent example, which is our not signing the NPT. 


मंध मंद मं aK 2 of aK 2K मे 


I trust the country will treat this charge with the contempt which it deserves. India, 
free, sovereign, democratic India, shall never be a satellite of any country, however great 
or powerful. 


Hea ak ae ak ak a ae ak 


Those who bandy about this charge show a singular lack of confidence in themselves 
or in the country. All the chanceries of the world know and respect the fact that our country. 
has steadfastly pursued its own course of action. 


2 मंद मं | मंधज मं 


And I shall continue to do it so long as I have anything to do with the Government of 
this country. The consistent and steadfast adherence of our policy of non-alignment is 
absolutely non-negotiable. Many people thought that we should succumb, they have tried 
to browbeat us here many a time, but we have not gone back from anything for which we 
stand, nor shall we ever do so in foreign policy or in domestic policy. 


I hope that this House will reject....this motion and will continue to show its confidence 
in this Government. 


310 ‘ 


Democracy in India* 


Mr. Speaker, Sir, I think the House knows that in all my fifty-six years, I have never 
shirked a battle nor a debate nor a difficult situation. And, therefore, normally, I have 
welcomed No-confidence Motions because they have allowed us to put forward our point 
of view. They have also shown us that in all these years the Opposition has not been able 
to come up with a single new point. 


All of us remember just a few months ago when we used to have a No-confidence 
Motion at the beginning of every single session of Parliament. When was that ? When 
they were expecting an election to come. And now, again, because there is an election in 
the offing, the habit is starting all over again. Well, it does not matter. While I am talking 
of elections, I might as well answer a point raised by Shri Shyamnandan Mishra, and 
perhaps Shri Samar Guha about our so-called promise that there would not be an election. 
Now, Sir, we did have a meeting of the Opposition leaders when we were in the midst of 
a war. We did say that while a war is on, it would not be proper to have an election. But 
once the war was over, what excuse did we have not to have an election?... 


ek भर HOw ak ee a 


I repeat what excuse could we offer to the country for avoiding an election in peace 
time? (Interruptions). There was no question of understanding. We had said that because 
there was a war, it would not be proper to have an election. 


Now, just by shaking your head you cannot change facts. 


Sir, it was said that there were deficiencies in the speeches on this side. I personally 
do not know by what standards these matters are weighed. I also have listened very carefully 
and in this debate, I have not missed a single speech. Even though I was not present in 
this room while the hon. Member, Shri Vajpayee was speaking, I heard him from my room. 
But, I can affirm very strongly that the speeches from our side answered every criticism 
and every point that was raised from the Opposition side. 


I should like to congratulate the Finance Minister who has had to deal with identical 
points, twice over within a few days, which can be a frightful bore, and specially the 
Defence Minister for his brilliant speech which was full of humour yet had depth. 


* Participating in the debate on the Motion of No-Confidence in the Council of Ministers, L.S. Deb., 22 November, 
1973, cc. 373-93. 


311 


as 


Much has been spoken about democracy. My colleague, Shrimati Maya Ray has dealt 
with the vision of the democracy that West Bengal experienced just a short while ago. 
Hence I do not think that we need to take very seriously the remarks made by certain 
Members on the other side. Regarding this matter we know also—perhaps the hon. Members 
might contradict me—but I would request all of you to read the records of the House-that 
some speeches may have been made in this House, but certainly, they were made to me in 
my room by Members of some opposition parties. Some people who were, at that time, in 
our party also blamed us time and again for being far too soft with the then West Bengal 
Government; urging that it should be dismissed because of its undemocratic character, that 
some strong action should be taken. It was I who insisted that while the Government was 
there, unless it fell on its own, we were not going to take any such step. 


Now, the entire Opposition is together in raising the cry of protecting democracy. Our 
party is the one that has brought democracy to India; which has laid the solid foundations 
of democracy, and to-day also is determined and pledged to strengthen democracy and to 
widen it and deepen its roots in our country. 


But democracy is not the licence to abuse, to make false allegations, to weaken the 
confidence of the country or to denigrate its achievements. This House knows the meaning 
of democracy. It has had an unsurpassed reputation of being a custodian of democracy in 
a world where in many countries, one after another, the democratic method is being given 
up. 


In India not only in this House but on outside platforms and other forums, parties and 
individuals have complete freedom of expression. Government has done nothing at all to 
abridge this freedom Nor does it have any intention of doing so in the future. I have made 
this commitment at every single public meeting. And I shall continue to make it. Not only 
to make it in words but I shall continue to act accordingly, because this is an article of 
faith with us. We do not just talk about it; we have lived upto it and we have worked for 
it. That is the reason why there is democracy in this country today. 


But, democracy does impose certain responsibilities. There 18 certainly responsibility 
on the majority party to ensure that the voice of the minority is not suppressed. But, at the 
same time, there is also a responsibility on the minority, which is the Opposition. Does it 
accept the verdict of the majority of our people or-does it not? I submit, Sir, with all 
humility, that from the day that we have been elected to this House, we have heard voices 
from the opposite side claiming that they are the ones who represent the people; they are 
the ones who were elected to this House by the people; perhaps we on this side have 
somehow got in through a backdoor ! According to them, it seems that we have not been 
elected at all. Please read the records to refresh your memory about what has been said. 


ae ak और a ae a ae 


Democracy imposes responsibilities at all times on the Opposition, but more, specially, 
in times of crisis, not to create further difficulties or to block programmes which have 
been accepted and passed by Parliament. These programmes are not the whims of the Prime 
Minister or her colleagues; these are programmes which have been brought to Parliament 


312 


2००5० 


oe = 22 2 


PERS eee 


23: ८20०० 


e 
2५ चर व 
be a ne 


pasa 
eS 


ON 


22: 
1०८ ee 
eta 
: 


and accepted by Parliament. There should not be opposition for the sake of opposition. I 
am not going to dwell on the question of how responsible or irresponsible have been the 
actions or certain Opposition Parties during this period of acute economic crisis. This is 
something which the public is well aware of. 


‘Fascist’ is another word that is bandied about. I have explained on previous occasions 
that I have had some experience of fascism. I have visited Fascist countries during this 
sort of rule and, I think, we have some knowledge now of what is happening in certain 
countries. I do not think anybody in the world will contradict that our party has had the 
most consistent record of fighting against fascism, more than perhaps any other country. 


An hon. Member* has dwelt on the question of security. I am one of those who do not 
believe in this sort of security arrangements. Hardly a day passes without my trying to 
fight them. Yet in spite of my security arrangements, can you name today any single leader 
of Government who Is so often so close to so many people for so many days in the year, 
year after year, security or no security ? How close are the people with me when I tour 
the various parts of the country ! We have been close in our relations with the people. We 
take them into confidence and that is why they have given us their confidence. 


We may not always be able to protect them from all hardships, due to events beyond 
our control or perhaps due to our own failings, our own shortcomings. We have not cut 
ourselves off from the people, we have gone to them, at least I can say for myself that I 
have gone to them and I have admitted the mistake, when we have committed one. We 
know we have committed mistakes. But we know also that nobody in the world can run a 
country of this size without committing mistakes. Even experts from other countries have 
had occasion to exclaim that they have never “‘seen a problem of this size’! For instance, 
we have had an expert to advise us on the Brahmaputra. He turned to me to say that he 
had dealt with river problems but that “this was a sea, not an ordinary river. We are trying 
to chart uncharted seas. Similar problems have been faced by some countries but never 
on such a gigantic scale, never in a democratic system, never with these different levels 
of development where we have a wide range of people from the tribal areas who so far 
had little opportunity for development, who were cut off from education and from every 
other kind of amenity even from administration, to various other sophisticated sections. 
Never at the level of poverty in which our foreign rulers had left us. 


We do make mistakes, and perhaps so long as we are human, we shall continue to 
make mistakes. All we can promise the people is that when we have made a mistake, we 
should try to rectify it. We do not wish to cover it up. Some people do try to cover up. I 
am not saying that they do not. But it is our effort that shortcomings should be revealed 


and we should attempt to find a new way, if necessary. 


My friend, Shri Shyamnandan Mishra, seemed to be allergic to the words ‘character 
assassination’. But how else do we describe the remarks that are made from the other side 
? If there is another appellation for it, we can certainly use it, but the meaning would be 
the same. You may give this name or another, but it means the same thing. 


* Shri Jyotirmoy Bosu. 


313 


What we have said is that if there 1s a prima facie case against any person, there must 
be an inquiry. But there cannot be an inquiry on every irresponsible allegation that is made. 
“Sbn H.N. Mukerjee insisted that because allegations were made, replies should be given. 
With ali due respect to him, I would say, as Babu Jagjivan Ramji has said, that all these 
questions have been asked not once but week after week, session after session, and every 
time a reply has been given by the Minister in charge. Sometimes when I have been there, 
I have also spoken. Even in the course of this debate, when allegations were made, they 
were promptly refuted. 


There is a concerted move to try and spread this atmosphere of-I can only call 1t—dirt. 
Maybe it is in the hope that some of it will stick. And some of it may stick, but if there is 
no truth in it, what can we do ? There is nothing that we can do about it. 


मंप्मंः्जंः 2 मर और ae मंद 2k 


And how much time and energy is spent in this witch-hunting. No matter how many 
times a lie 1s repeated, it does not become truth, nor do facts change just because the 
Opposition would like them to be otherwise. 


On the opposite side there is a measure of paucity of ideas, of work, of programmes. 
Perhaps that is why, as somebody remarked just now, the Opposition is reduced to the 
dire strait of concentrating their fire on this aspect of our public life. 


I do not want to talk about Maruti, because all the questions that have been asked have 
been replied to, time and again. What I have said and my Ministers have said-I have said 
it in public meetings—is that no favour has been shown, no rules have been violated, no 
injustice has been done to anyone. Whatever salary or consulting service is there, is 
according to the rules. Those rules may be wrong. Then let us decide that we change the 


rules. But while those rules exist, you cannot say that different rules should be applied to _ 


different people. 


Babu Jagjivan Ram has already dealt with the land question. For months, although the 
Opposition has gone all out to discover something wrong, they have not been able to do 
so. Nothing irregular has been done. 1 can assure you that I shall not countenance any 
violation of the law or of rules or of procedure. 


To give another example of the manner in which such malicious ard false talk or writing 
is indulged in, the party to which one hon. Member opposite belongs started, at the very 
time that I gave away the only house I have ever owned, a canard of my owning a house 
in every State, may be in every country in the world! When an hon. Member who 
questioned me about it in the corridor, wrote to them, they replied: “916 has only said it 1s 
mischievous and malicious; she had not said that it is not true!”” When a specific question 
had been asked of me in Parliament, “Did I own a house anywhere ?” and I had said ‘No’, 
obviously that includes a villa in Rome or anywhere. As everybody very well knows, ५ do 

not have a foreign account either. 


Cael eee 


314 


Teese ip ae 
Toca 


It was also sought to establish that I had land, vast stretches of land, in every State. 
Such questions are also asked—‘Have you not got land in such and such State ?’ Such 
wrong accusations go on and on and on. 


Another story that is being spread nothing to do with land or anything-is that I am 
passing away with cancer. I received this news from a number of Chief Ministers, that the 
workers of a political party have been spreading such rumours in the villages. 


मै ak ak ae ak मं ak मर और 


Some people now speak of the INA who at the crucial moment were on the wrong 
side of the fence. (Interruptions). 


There are parties who have not started denigrating the Government only today. They 
have tried to denigrate the national image, they have spoken against Gandhiji, they have 
spoken against Jawaharlal Nehru, they have spoken against all our policies, all our 
programmes from the very beginning. So, for them this is nothing new. For them, everything 
has been wrong. In fact, a large number of them, those who were old enough, denounced 
us for pursuing wrong path even before independence and for the manner in which we 
own independence. Even in this House very recently an insinuation was made that it was 
not the people’s movement which won freedom. I hope that all of you noted that remark. 
I hope that you will go and inform the people. 


We have talked of law and order. An hon. Member-I think it was either Dr. Karni Singh 
or perhaps Shri H.M. Patel-spoke about leaving the students alone. 


मंद मंर ak fod मै he ak 


I am in entire agreement with him that students should not be exploited for any purpose, 
political or otherwise. What is happening today ? I got a message just a little while ago 
regarding the ITT, Delhi. A political party is holding meetings within the compound of the 
institution—and this was one of the very good technical institutions—inciting the workers 
to beat up the heads of departments. Is this the way that we are going to deal with law and 
order ? Is this the way that we are going to encourage education in our country ? The 
same situation exists elsewhere also. I do not want to name the institution. In another city 
the ITT was the very best in India until a particular party established a unit there. Today it 
is in constant trouble and hardly any worthwhile work is being done there. One could 
duplicate these instances any number of times. This would be bad enough at any time, but 
what is worse is that this is the party that talks in the name of Indian culture. This is the 
party that talks in the name of the Hindu religion. 


It is the same regarding their talk of democracy. Hon. Members have heard of the attack 
on a newspaper. 1 do not know what the newspaper wrote. I did not even know that such a 
newspaper existed in Shahdara till this news came, but there was an attack on it. Shri 
Vajpavee mentioned that he was very deeply concerned but obviously not about the attack. 
(Interruptions). 


315 


Talking of amenities for the people, just 10 minutes ago, I received a report of a 
lightning strike from this moming by a Jan Sangh controlled union at the Wazirabad Head 
Works: Most areas of Delhi are without water. (Interruptions). Everybody knows the 
Capacity for mischief. Just two people can make mischief anywhere. May I know what 
control could one have over them ? To set fire to a house, to set fire to a bus, to destroy 
something, you do not need a large number of people there nor a union. It is constructive 
work which is difficult. 


ae a मर ae a मं aK he मर 


We have never supported either the Communist Party, or any other party. We here are 
supporting Congress programmes. We welcome support from anybody who gives support 
to our policies, but we have never moved a millimetre, or whatever is less than a millimetre, 
from our declared programmes. Most Congress programmes are not new programmes. We 
may couch them in new works but these programmes were accepted by the Congress Party 
a long time ago, even before the split. Therefore, there is no question of any flux or 
indecision on our part. It is true that we cannot always go ahead as fast as we should like 
to do, but our direction is clear for all to see, whether it is in regard to our industrial policy 
or another policy. Sometimes a little adjustment has to be made. For instance, we thought 
we would not give licences to the Big Houses. But when we found that the development 
of some of the backward areas was stagnating, we decided to give licences for those areas. 
But I may tell this House that this has not helped much. Even the Big Houses are reluctant 
to go to places where the best facilities are not available. Of course, this does not apply to 
all Big Concerns. You have all heard an hon. Member speak of his experience regarding a 
factory which was to have come up in his constituency about four years ago. 


...A question has been posed whether there should be legislation or the Gandhian way 
of persuasion. I can assure this House that I am all for persuasion. But has persuasion 
worked in a single case ? Only the other day there was a meeting on the whole concept of 
trusteeship. How many of the businessmen who attended it are willing to adopt what 
Gandhiji meant by trusteeship ? On the contrary, they consider it to be an extreme view, 
going to a limit which businessmen found impossible to follow. | 


Mention was made of my Mathura speech. Babuji has already replied to the DMK. 
He has taken the words out of my mouth for that was what I was going to say to my fnends 
of the DMK. What I stated in that speech was for that particular occas:on. One or two 
political parties were shouting slogans. My remarks did not apply to a party which was 
hundreds of miles away from Mathura. I have not accused the DMK of demanding 
Separation. What I did say clearly was that the DMK were very close to a person who is 
advocating it, yet I had not heard any Member of the DMK announce that “we are with 
this person, but we differ with him on this specific point’. That is the small point I had 
made. 


We have the support of the Communist Party on some matters, but we differ from them 
on a number of other matters and do not hesitate to clarify the position. The hon. leader of 


5३ Aone पा कक Meni vanes Sitar आप Ue है अर के 


the DMK also drew a picturesque metaphor about the Ship of State not progressing fast 
enough. 


2 ee a eae ake he af 


Somebody made the comparison. You quoted it.* I thought that you approved of the 
phrase when you quoted it. As we all know, quotations are used with a motive, sometimes 
leaving out those portions which do not support one’s argument. I do not know whether 
you did so in this case. 


मर मंद मर a fe 2k ak ak मर 


Now the only question is, if a ship is not going fast enough, do we speed it up or do 
we sink it ? This is the question before the country. It is obvious that there is an attempt 
by some people-I am not saying, by you** or any particular party—to sink the ship, in the 
hope that another ship will crop up from the bottom of the sea or may fall from the heavens. 


We were also reminded, as we are in most such debates, that the Congress is a motley 
crowd. So it is. We are rather proud of our diversity. Within this diversity, there is a great 
deal of unity. We know that sometimes some people indulge in groupism or talk against 
one another. But once a policy 18 decided, we go ahead. However, we have to deal not 
only with statistics but with human beings. Human beings in our party are the same as 
outside—after all, we are not a different race. I think, you will at least concede us that. 
Some of our Members may want to retard a particular programme that they do not approve 
of; they may want to modify it in some way. But I do not think that anybody can doubt 
our intentions, our dedication to our programmes and our determination to put them through. 


Most of our States have implemented them. I concede that sometimes when we pursue 
them, their implementation leaves much to be desired in single sphere. This 1s unfortunate. 
I am deeply concerned about it. We must do all we can to see that implementation is 
improved all along the line. But to compare the internal differences of our party with the 
type of differences which exist on your side is in my view absolutely ridiculous. 


I now come to my good friend, Shn Shyamnandan Babu’s remarks—you are also my 
friend even though you may be somebody else’s. When I spoke about the necessity of a 
financial wizard, perhaps the hon. Member thought I had him in mind. Actually, as I have 
explained on another occasion, I was not speaking about India at all. I was trying to analyse 
the world situation and saying that there was hardly a country in the world today which 
had managed to escape from some kind of financial crisis. What can this be due to ? 
Something must be wrong in the system. Something is wrong in our system here. | am 
not denying it. I would be the first person to admit the need for very radical changes. But 
to some extent we are tied to world currencies and trends. This is not an excuse nor am I 
saying that this is the whole of our trouble here. I am not, in any way, trying to shirk our 
responsibility. Our responsibility is considerable. When one makes an assessment of a 
situation, one has to mention all the relevant factors which are contributing to it. 


* Replying to Shri Sezhiyan who said : “I did not make it; it was a quotation from Patriot”. 
“* Shri Sezhiyan. 


317 


One of the factors is that in almost every country-Shn Jyotirmoy Bosu or somebody 
else may claim that this does not exist in socialist countries. Probably, it is because they 
have an entirely different system and we do not have that system. We know that in those 
countries also, they went through hell before they emerged; they went through starvation 
before they emerged; they went through every kind of difficulty, every kind of repression, 
before they came upto the stage where they are now. 


ake a ae ak oe भर ak ak ak 


So, even though the reasons may be quite different, the effects may be quite different, 
there is no doubt that what is happening in the world is having its effect in India. No matter 
how much we try, it will continue to have an impact on us. 


When I spoke about things getting better, I did not say that the entire situation was 
changing. But I did say that the food situation was slightly better than various other items. 
For instance, there is no doubt—I do not want to go into details of public sector functioning— 
that some of our public sector undertakings which were not functioning well have improved 
considerably. There are also many other aspects which could be called the silver lining in 
our difficult situation. 


One point to which I forgot to refer earlier concerns the complaint that I had not 
appreciated the help of the Opposition during the Bangladesh crisis. I do not think this is 
true. Even in my public meetings I did mention that, in this matter, the Opposition parties 
and all the people of India had stood as solid as a rock and that was how we achieved our 
wonderful victory and we could withstand the great challenge. 


Hon. Member Shn H.M. Patel spoke about offshore drilling. His reference I think, was 
to the Tenneco offer. So far as I remember, the proposal was not accepted because it meant 
that half the 01 which was produced would go to the collaborating company. This was 
what weighed with us at that time. There was no question of any ideology standing in the 
way. In the Bombay High exploration, the collaboration for a survey is with a French firm, 
the platform ‘Sagar Samrat’ was made by Mitsubishi of Japan, and the dnilling contract 
has been taken up by an American company, M/s. Offshore International. But it is true 
that, in items like oil, which can vitally affect not only the economy but which in other 
countries has interfered with politics, economics and so on, one has to be very careful and 
I do not think that one can entirely ignore ideology in such a case. As a matter of fact, 
even in the present situation, this is very relevant. 


Criticism has been voiced about the President’s Rule in different States. So far as Uttar 
Pradesh was concerned, this came about with reference to a very specific situation. As 
was explained in this House, the ruling party had a big majority. There was no doubt 
whatsoever about the majority. However, the situation created by police indiscipline was 
not an ordinary one. And we could not at that moment guess what its ramifications would 
be, not only in U.P. but perhaps in other parts of the country also and therefore, we thought 
it wiser to play safe. We have to compliment the State leadership. They could have said, 
‘No; we are going to stick on to the Government’—but they viewed the entire situation in 
the national perspective. And that is why the then Chief Minister advised the temporary 


: ०८. Seppe. 
हे He meee Patna 
2. ee 
Sone ES: 
rate tated 22:22 ee 
४7222: 

2. aes 


318 : 


oe 4 
eer 


imposition of Central rule. It is now being alleged that the installation of the popular 
Government is with a view to utilise official machinery for election purposes. We knew 
that election was coming. So what was the need of removing the Ministry, if it was only a 
question of using it ? The Ministry could very well have remained until the elections. 
Obviously, this criticism is politically motivated. 


So far as Andhra is concerned, the situation in which the President’s rule had to be 
imposed was entirely different. There was a breakdown of law and order in which all 
parties—and I am very sorry to say that our party was also one of them—had a hand in 
Creating this situation. The administration had come to a complete standstill. The period 
of President’s Rule has been utilised to try and find a consensus in respect of the overall 
political and economic problems of the State, and I am sure that there will soon be a popular 
Government even though no elections are in sight. 


A reference has been made to the High Court judgment in Orissa. I do not wish to 
refer to the judgment, but I should like to say that the Governor was justified in entertaining 
a doubt about the reliability of the majority of the Opposition because of the manner in 
which the fall of the government had been about. And this doubt was further strengthened 
by the statements of prominent leaders of the Opposition themselves when they insisted 
upon an early formation of the government because they felt that otherwise some of their 
followers might defect. 


The third point is that the budget has not been passed and in view of the above doubt, 
it had to be assured that it should be passed in accordance with the constitutional provisions 
which might not have been possible through an unstable government. Hon. Members 
Opposite have understandably overlooked the case of Manipur where in a similar situation, 
where our Party could have formed the Government, we did not allow them to do so. 


I do not want to take more time of the House. But I should like to make just one point. 
No one has said and certainly I have never done so, that all our troubles are due to 
Bangladesh or the war. But can any one in this House or anywhere in the world deny that, 
that was a major crisis whose seriousness cannot be gauged by the amount spent ? It was 
a major crisis which dislocated every part of the administration and imposed a very heavy 
burden on us. A burden of this dimension cannot simply be shaken off in a year or so. 
Hon. Members will remember that I said so in this House even before the burden fell on 
us. I said that the people wanted certain actions to be taken. We were conscious of our 
duty and would certainly help the people of Bangladesh but that we would have to pay 
the price for it later on. This is not the whole of the story, so far as our present problems 
are concerned but it is an important part of the story and when you are assessing the 
situation, you cannot leave out any part of the assessment merely because it is inconvenient 
or took place some time ago. 


As I said earlier, there have been failings in our functioning and nobody will deny 
that the economic situation is a serious onc. I do believe that it is not as serious as it was 
sometime ago because of the improving food situation. On the other hand we have other 
more serious problems, such as petroleum, we could not possibly have foreseen or the 
manner in which the Middle East situation erupted. These events are beyond our control. 


319 


___ We have other serious and urgent problems. I do not want to go into economic questions 
-Siace Shri Chavan has dealt with them not merely now but as late as last week in reply to 
the Adjournment Motion and when the same points were raised 1n Question Hour. 


Sir, I am the daughter of a historian. I have had the privilege of seeing history being 
made and I have also had some small hand in the making of history myself as part of our 
remarkable national movement. I do not live for one or two elections. In every single 
speech, whether to my party or to the public, I have made it clear that elections come and 
go, but our duty is not merely to win—any political party wants to win elections—but that 
should not be our goal and that should not be the focus of our attention...... (Interruptions). 
We do not work for the present. We are looking ahead to the future. India has had a long 
history but it has a still longer way to go. 


We have dreamt dreams for India. We have seen visions of the future that we wanted 
for our people and it is for them we work and struggle. We are not going to be diverted by 
men of little faith and no vision, people who talk of India’s civilisation but visualise it 
only in terms of narrowness and communalism. We have not been diverted and we are 
not going to be diverted from our path and our duty. 


Those who swear by the caste system lecture to us about the conditions of the Harijans. 
Our own concern is for the Hanyans and J must express my agony and deep distress at the 
fact that, in spite of all our laws, we have not been able to change the attitudes of our 
people. 


An atrocity here or an atrocity there is deplorable. It is to be condemned. But, by itself 
it can be dealt with. The real problem 1s the attitude of thinking and this has not changed. 


a मंच् a ME KO ae ae मर 


Well, whether it is Government or whether it is political parties, that particular question 
has nothing to do with Harijans.* That is a question of land, which I believe is being sorted 
out. The land problem has not arisen because the people are Harijans. But there are parties, 
there are groups who believe ardently in the caste system and that is what is perpetuating 
the divisions in our society and preventing integration. 


Hon. Members opposite are fond of urging the people to reject me. Now, if this happens, 
it will not be the first time in history, our own history or of the wor'd, that some one has 
been falsely charged and falsely implicated or that people have been made to believe such 
falsehood. But I have not the shadow of a doubt that whatever may be said now, whatever 
may be done, history will vindicate me, history will vindicate our party. 


Hon. Members have loudly called for elections. If we take our minds back to the last 
time-I am talking of the time before the last Parliamentary elections—the same demand 
was voiced. Yet when we opted for election, the very same people accused us of being 
undemocratic. This is the first time in the world, I think, that anybody has equated the 


* Replying to Shri Atal Bihari Vajpayee’s question : “What about the attitude of the Haryana Government ?” 


: 
32202 


= 
10%: 
io ‘eo! be 
५०९०5 
Aa) 
*e « 
Parte ed 
Hott ५.६ 
te 
९, 
०१०१५, ee 
22:72: 
tated 


ore 
Se 
af 

<> 
५३ 1 

a 


Pe 
Seats 


222 


मे 
72 
eR 77222 7:22 
pe RES २०72० 


०००८ 
ae eee 


४“ ४ 
४:22: 


holding of elections with negation of democracy. We took the Opposition at their word. 
They resented this deeply but all of us are here, including ‘non. Members opposite, because 
of those elections and the people’s verdict. 


Now, Sir, I have finished. I should like to draw attention to the one more rather sarcastic 
comment of an hon. Member about unilateral love for the people. 


2 मंध मं ek कं mek मे 


If the hon. Member believes in democracy, he should accept the people’s right to decide 
whom they should love.* It is for the people to judge everybody's weaknesses and faults, 
to weigh them, and decide, what, in the ultimate analysis, they believe to be in their 
interests; who, no matter what their shortcomings and faults may be, can maintain the 
stability and the unity of the country and go ahead towards the declared goal. If it is a 
question of one-sided love, as for as the people are concerned, we shall always give them 
our love, whether they are with us or not. We shall give them our love, we shall give them 
our service, and I am sure that the people will also stand by us. 


So, I appeal to the hon. Members to reject this No-confidence move which is obviously 
entirely politically motivated and, although they have resented Prof. Mukerjee’s statement, 
I must say that the timing does seem highly suspicious. 


* Replying to Shri Shyamnandan Mishra’s remarks, “People have unilateral love for you. You are giving them 
unemployment. You are giving them high prices. So, people have unilateral love for you”. 


321 


Struggle of Railway Employees* 


Mr. Speaker, Sir, we have listened, I do not know for how many hours, whether 10 
hours are over or not... But the time you have finished, it will be well over 10 hours. 


ate ake मं ate fe ak af afc a 


We have heard, more or less, the same arguments which had been made day before 
yesterday, the day before that and, perhaps even the day before that—I do not know; I 
have not been in the House during several of those occasions. I really did not understand 
the purpose of this no-confidence motion except perhaps that there was a need for the 
Opposition to show that they are united. Rather than blaming us for creating this unity, if 
they want to say anything about it, they should have applauded it. It is a laudable thing if 
they are united. If they had been united for a positive purpose, I would be the first to 
welcome it. I do not know what positive results they expected from the no-confidence 
motion. 


To say that our policy is anti-labour is the most preposterous statement that anybody 
could make. I would like to know-all these people have formed the Government at one 
time or the other—which of them have done anything more for labour than we have done 
during our time. The last speaker spoke just now about the way शा which they had fought 
for the rights of the landless, about land-grabbing and all that, but when they formed the 
Government, how many of them passed any laws about land ceilings? We have passed 
them. In the last year we have not done anything to stop strikes. There have been far more 
strikes. There have been far more strikes than ever before. 


We have always negotiated; we have always spoken and, in many cases, we have 
conceded what was asked for. 


Did that create an atmosphere of cooperation? Did that create an atmosphere of greater 
production? Did that create an atmosphere of the Opposition leaders saying, “You have 
made concessions; you have done something good and, on this, at least we can applaud 


you’? On the contrary, the concessions we have made have led to further demands almost 
immediately. 


Today, we are not considering merely what is to be given to Railwaymen. We are 
considering whether we can go along this road of giving more and more at a time when 


* Replying to the debate on the Motion of No-Confidence in the Council of Ministers, L.S. Deb., 9 May, 1974, 
cc. §20-38. 


Soe 
xe 
es 

oN 


AN a 
ENS 
Ses 


322 5 


ns 
ENO 
५०772 

2522 


SS 


PESTS 
Rs 
Paes 


we have less and less. This is the question. It is not a question of only the Railways. If we 
have made a mistake previously, that is no reason to continue to make such mistakes. We 
have always acknowledged our mistakes. We have tried to correct them. If we have made 
mistakes, we shall certainly, not only try but I hope to succeed in correcting them. 


Enough has been said about the Railways all these days. I do not think any new idea 
can be thought of. Many persons from our side, my colleagues, have expressed our deep 
appreciation of the sense of patriotism and dedication of railway workers. They have run, 
our trains in times of danger, in times of war, in the midst of bullets and bombs. I personally 
shared the excitement in 1965 when I was going by train to see that effect of bombing in 
Punjab and our train was also shelled. 


I agree with what hon. Member Mr. Frank Anthony has said about the devoted work 
of railway engine drivers and others. I myself have seen the special feeling almost personal 
attachment they have to the engines of which they were in charge. All this we appreciate. 
I do not say that Railways should be denied a higher wage that some other sections are 
getting. As many of our speakers have mentioned, our society is not divided into only two 
sections; bank workers and Railway workers. There are many crore or millions in between 
or rather, below them all. 


I am not expressing my inner feelings now, because I do not wish unnecessarily to 
irritate you all. I am not attributing any motives. But what is the result? A few days ago, 
and even today, some people came to me and appealed to me to intervene. Many Members, 
Shri H.M. Patel and others, have lectured to us; they have given us the lectures which 
they should have aimed at the other side. Have Government threatened the strike? Have 
Government provoked the strike? (Jnterruptions) I am afraid that it does not matter how 
much you shout; it does not change facts. (Interruptions) 


2 ek ae fe मं 2K ee 


That is exactly what I am doing. *I am telling you the truth. There was no indication 
at any time of any desire on the other side to withdrew the strike. Even though negotiations 
were going on, nobody there gave the impression that the strike would not take place. We 
were doing our utmost to try and prevent it until the very last moment... 


ak मैप मं 3c 2K 3k mK he akc 


Arrests came at a very late stage**. When it was obvious—Some people have tried to 
make fun of what Shri Lalit Narayan quoted. But that was not the only newspaper that 
has published such speeches. I have not heard about the Dhanbad paper. But I know that 
the news has appeared in English and language newspapers in other parts of the country 
also. I do not have the newspapers here; even if I had them, I have no intention of quoting 
them. But that does not change that fact of those reports, those speeches appearing and 
giving an indication of exactly what the labour leaders had in mind. 


* Replying to a Member who said, “Tell us the facts”. 
** Responding to a Member's remark, “89 arresting’. 


We are genuinely concerned about the interest of railway workers, but we have to be 
. more concerned about the larger interests of the country. And if, at any moment, a strike 
18 going to affect the larger interests, then action has to be taken. I am not talking about 
this strike or any particular strike. But when the larger welfare of our people is in stake, 
when sabotage is threatened—even today we have the news of a train being derailed—, 
we have to take action. Had we not taken the action which we considered appropriate, 
then the nation as a whole would have blamed us. (/nterruptions) It was our assessment 
that this was one way in which the situation could be helped, and we acted. I personally 
fee] that it had the mght result—not in the sense that the strike has taken place because the 
strike was coming anyhow. Had we felt that there was even a one per cent chance of the 
strike being averted, believe me, the arrests would not have taken place and a lot of other 
things would not have taken place... 


me a ae मं मर ae मंद मर 


How do you know the feelings that I had?* I am telling you my information and my 
feelings. How can you say that I am wrong? You can talk about your feelings. 


There was one point on which we are agreed on all sides, and that is that the country 
is passing through an extremely difficult economic situation.... You have been saying so 
since the split. You have said it here, almost every week. Shri Mishra, I have no doubt 
you will continue to Say it, but it will have no effect on the people.** 


ae a मं He मंच mK fe मर 


The second point was that the strike is bound to bring about a deterioration in the 
situation and worsen it. These were the two points on which everybody agreed. Now, 
knowing that, the strike notice was given. Knowing that all preparations, open and covert 
... Interruptions). Yes, overt and covert, whatever it is. Iam not a Professor in English... 


foto ae ae और मैट a af 


The stnke is affecting the poorest and the weakest sections of the country. Now, you 
look to us to stop the strike. How can we stop the strike? We did not give notice of the 
strike. The strike was. not called by the Government not caused by the Government, not 
precipitated by the Government. 


aK 3K Ik mK ae oe 3K 2K मं 
I am not concerned with the number of strikers. I do not want to debate how many 
trains are running or are not running. At least we heard one Member who had a ride by 


train and obviously he could not have arrived had the trains not been running. It was an 
Opposition Member... 


me IK जुर we aK मे मं के a 


* Responding to Shri Shyamnandan Mishra’s remark, *ऐैंएए are wrong”. 
** Replying to Shri Shyamnandan Mishra’s comment, “Of your making”. 


324 


Even among those who have refrained from coming to work there are several if not 
many—because it depends on what ‘several’—means and what ‘many’ means—who would 
not have refrained, had they not been intimidated. Only yesterday we heard an hon. 
Member of the Opposition who is not favourably disposed to us, telling this House of the 
large number of telegrams he was receiving from railway workers in different parts of the 
country informing him of threats, intimidation and so on... 


mK aie ae ae मंद ae ae कं मर 


It does not matter whom he talked about. *What he stated was that these people—whether 
they are anglo-Indians or Christians or Muslims or Hindus or anybody else, the fact 1s 
that they were intimidated, that they sent him telegrams asking that they be given protection. 
That is the point. That come at a much later stage when there was the question of sabotage, 
when there was... I do not want to go into the details because there has been sabotage 
already and we know that it was planned.** 


4K a ak a a4 


The strike is an unfortunate one. Again I repeat that we on this side are not against 
strikes. In fact, we are for strikes if they are legitimate strikes. But there comes a time in 
the life of a nation when other things are more important and urgent and it is such a time 
today. This is a time when each must see how the present situation cannot be improved. 
There is no doubt that the strike will not really help railwaymen. It is going to adversely 
affect the poorer people. It is going to cause inconvenience to the general public. And it 
will equally touch the future of the railwaymen and their children. 


ek IK We ae a OK a 


We have tried our best to settle it.*** We think it will worsen the situation and if the 
situation worsens, so does the inconvenience to the poor people of the country. As Babuji 
said, lakhs and lakhs of people will not get food, will not get coal and all their other 
necessities. I am aware of the difficulties of railwaymen. These difficulties are not only 
theirs, they are shared by practically all sections. But the burden is far greater on those 
who are not organised today those whose voice cannot be heard so loudly and as Shn Priya 
Ranjan said, on the unemployed youth of the country. The more that is given to any 
organised section, the less is available for the unemployed and for all other sectors. 


we ae a me afc ae ae ok मर 


The problem can be solved if everybody sits down together to see how it can be solved. 
Our problem is not that of the railway strike isolated from the rest of the country. The 
problem is a much larger one. On our part we are ready to talk and to reach agreement on 


* Responding to Shri Jyotirmoy Bosu’s remark, “Why talk about anglo-Indians?’ 
** Replying to Shri Indrajit Gupta’s question, “...Was not your Railway Minister everyday threatening to sack 
them?”’ 
*** Responding to Shri Indrajit Gupta’s remark, “Why not try to settle it?” 


all that is reasonable and in the interest of the country. That is why even after the strike 
- notice was given in the midst of negotiations, we continued the talks. We were always 
ready for talks. 


But we have to consider who is threatening whom. The strike was a threat to us. It 
was hitting at the very foundation of our economy. The whole talk was one of threatening 
us. We were not threatening anybody. We were threatened that certain consequences would 
take place. (Interruptions) 


It was only the Unions sitting there which were in a position to threaten and act. All 
we could do was to be on the defensive which we did. We took the actions which we 
consider necessary. We do not wish to use the B.S.F. or the police or the army against 
strikers as some hon. Members have alleged. We use them only to safeguard the interests 
of the railways, which are closely linked with the interests of the people at large. 


Peter er eS er NE hee tre 


My colleague, the Railway Minister, has explained the extra burden which we have Re 
agreed to bear. That increase is over and above that which was due to the pay revision 


and the grant of D.A. to neutralise the rise in prices. But hon. Members know that the 
demands now made are far more sweeping. In fact, I think some Members have said in 
private that they know that these demands would be extremely difficult for Government 
to agree to. (/nterruptions) 


It is my information. Again, yours may be quite different. I must tell you that one 
particular group at one time or another has mentioned this. 


We know that the wage structure in the country is not what it should be. We know that 
there 1s a great deal of injustice in it and that it is riddled with anomalies and contradictions. 
In the olden days, there was a bias against labourers and workers. We have done a great * 
deal to correct this. This does not mean that we have got rid of the contradictions or that 
we have reached a satisfactory stage, I do realise that it is absolutely necessary to bring 
about some rationality in the wage structure. But this is a tremendous task which cannot 
be achieved overnight. It has to be done without causing too much dislocation. The matter 
is under the earnest consideration of the Government, and I shall certainly welcome any 
constructive suggestions which the hon. Members or others would like to give. I do think 
that this is one of the most urgent problems which we face. But it carnot be settled unless 
we stop adding to the wage bill at least for a short time. There are real difficulties and we 
must do our utmost to solve them. We have to keep in view the repercussions of each 
action. We have agreed to other demands. Whether those demands were just or not merely 
because we have agreed to some this has led to other demands. Each section says that 
since we have given increases to a particular section, why should we not also give to them”? 
This is a continuing process. We have come to a stage when we do not have the 
wherewithal. Even if we had it, I do not think that it would be a nght thing to do at this 
stage of our development, which is extremely critical and delicate. 


Hohe मे ae 2 a eae ak 


326 


Well for my hon. friend opposite, probably the whole purpose of his participating in 
this debate was not so much to talk about the railway strike but to get in some words about 
the Plan.* 


If it had not been so late I could have entered into a discussion on that matter also. 


afc 24 2c oie जद ae mK ae a 


This is the time when our undivided energies should be devoted to overcome the 
economic crisis. | personally do not think that the Plan is dead. We do have to make certain 
adjustments, because the increase in the price of fuel and various other items is bound to 
change the picture, but programmes have been taken in hand to increase our own power 
resources, fuel resources. Other programmes which are just as much part of the Plan are 
continuing. We are going ahead in spite of these obstacles and we are going to overcome 
them. The way to lighten the hardship is not by causing new hardships, not by preventing 
food movements, and coal movements, not by damaging production and exports and the 
country’s economic wherewithal. It is a time when our undivided energies should be 
devoted to overcome this crisis, to increase production and to ensure fairer distribution. I 
do realise that distribution at this point is not at all fair, but this cannot be done immediately, 
especially at a time of economic difficulty. When it is a time to unite—although the 
Opposition seem to be united amongst themselves on this issue—on the whole, they have 
chosen this moment to divide the country to set group against group, and to sow distrust 
and cynicism. 


fe 2c 2 ac 2 ak afc aie ake 


But our party elections have not sown cynicism or distrust of any kind.** They have 
been peaceful and friendly and we congratulate all those who have won, and even those 
who have not won. This is how democracy functions. 


Opposition leaders have not hesitated to proclaim that their aim is to weaken the 
Government and it is not just one person’s speech. You have only to see the newspapers 
of any single day, and you will see a number of such statements in magazines and 
newspapers. It does not matter if it is only the Government or the Congress Party which 
is weakened or which suffers, but it does matter if the country is weakened. 


From the day that the Congress took office immediately after independence, it has 
devoted itself to the promotion of the workers’ right and the workers’ welfare. In the last 
few years, our policies have been even more pro-labour than earlier. I would even say 
that more has been done for the workers in the last five years than ever before in the history 
of our country. But to be pro-labour does not mean that one accepts all demands that are 
made—whether they are reasonable or not. We are pro-labour, but we are even more for 
the country. The country’s interests come first and they are above the interests of any one 
section. Today we cannot afford the exorbitant demands that have been made, or the others 


* Responding to Shri Shyamnandan Mishra’s remark, “You have given a go by to development.” 
** Responding to Shri Piloo Mody’s remark, “You had your party elections today.” 


327 


= are being hinted on behalf of other sections. Should we agree to these demands ....If 


we agree to these demands, it would be satisfying a few lakh people at the expense of 
Many crore. ..(/nterruptions). 


Shri I'ndrajit Gupta normally makes quite balanced speeches but I was astonished -to 
hear hira make a remark referring to Government going all out to please big business in 
India ‘and the United States Ambassador or the United States administration or some such 
thing. 


ae कं: aK ae a a we aie 3 


It is needless to say, if I may use a para of my father’s that “It is fantastic nonsense”’. 


ae a के eK a aie ae a 


That just shows how little the hon’ble Member had to say about the subject under 
discussions, when he resorted to such allegations.* 


The Government and my party are always being accused of seeking scapegoats. Much 
vocal vehemence 1s spent on developing this theme and gallons of ink are used up in our 
newspapers and other areas for this purpose. They seem to find plenty of it.** I do not see 


any shortage in the newspapers either for advertisements or for abusing; both have plenty 
of them. 


aie मर 3c ae he ae ae a और 


Now, I would like to put another point of view. Does not the Opposition make a 


scapegoat of me for everything, their lack of initiative and inability to provide an alternative 
programme ? 


eh ak 2 2 a af ac मै 
That is quite true.*** He will find that all the newspapers in India are all supporting 


the Congress and not one newspaper has even mentioned a word about the 
Opposition....What nonsense such statements are. 


ek ak ae ate मै ek 


Our party does not have its own newspapers amongst. all the millions of newspapers 
that come out... 


ae a ak 4K Hk मं 


We certainly have the All India Radio, and we shall «continue to have it, and I want to 
State that the purpose of the radio is to project the policies of the Government****. Let 
me put it very clearly here. They are not the policies of the Congress. They are the policies 
which are accepted and passed by this Parliament and the State Assemblies. 


* Responding to Shri Indrajit Gupta’s remark, “I am absolutely dumb-founded at this.” 
** Responding to Shri Piloo Mody’s comment, ‘That is, if you find newsprint.” 
*** Replying to Shri Shyamnandan Mishra who said, ‘We are blacked out. They are full of praises for you”. 
**** Replying to Shri S.A. Shamim’s remark, * She has All India Radio’. 


eee 
oe 


. 
55% 


is ae 


Mr. Mody is free to have any idea he likes. * But normally legislation is passed by a 
majority and not by a minority anywhere in the world. 


a ae ak 2 ak a kak 


Governments are committed and pleaged to follow the policies that are passed in 
Parliament and in the Legislatures. **That is Government’s major job. 


ak ak 9k a2 कं eke ak 


It is not blacked out. ***But that is the major job. It is not blacked out. It is not true to 
say that it is blacked out...... 


a ae ak atk मं 2 ak ak 


The very fact that they are all saying ‘Do it’ means that it has not been done so far.**** 


मंद 9k > 2 ak ak ae a मै 


You are saying that as an after thought; anyhow, we are not going to be bullied into 
doing any wrong by your shouting*****, 


The Motion criticises Government for failure; in reality, it is a confession of the 
Opposition’s frustration at their own failure and Government’s ability to handle and 
overcome all the obstacles that they are constantly putting in our path. (/nterruptions) 


eK जर me ak afc aie ae मर 


Some difficulties are created by our mistakes. I have admitted it. But a lot are not created 
by our mistakes but by circumstances beyond our control, by outside aggression, by 
international crisis. There is a combination of many things. It 1s not any one of these things. 
I am not claiming that Government have made no mistakes. We have made mistakes. We 
are human. One mistake we have just admitted. When we find that we have made a mistake, 
we always try to rectify it. I have never stood on prestige or pride or anything of that kind. 
(Interruptions) 1 have said very clearly that if I were sure that by releasing those who have 
been imprisoned this problem would be solved, then there would be no hesitation. 


2 ak 2k 2 मंद a मर मंद मै 


I do not want to prolong this debate. I repeat that we have full sympathy with the 
suffering of the railway people. We do not want them to suffer in any way or their families 
to suffer. We have always been prepared to talk and to alleviate their grievances. What we 


* Responding to Shri Piloo Mody's remarks, “According to the Prime Minister, Parliament consists of only 
Government or the majority. I am sorry that is not my idea of Parliament.” 
** Responding to Shri Piloo Mody’s remarks, “] am not talking about legislation. When she talks about Government 
policies, there is a policy in the Opposition also, and both policies should be put squarely before the people.” 
*** Replying to Shri Shyamnadan Mishra’s comment “ All other points of view must be blacked out?” 
**** Referring some members who said, “Do it.” 
**#** Replying to Shri Shyamnandan Mishra who said, “Go on doing it”. 


329 


have done to meet their grievances has been explained by the Railway Minister, by Shri 
Qureshi and others. Many of their points have been met. I know they have been met. I 
‘think this will go a long way in removing some of the basic hardship. 


There are one or two points on which Government are not able to agree. I think 
everyone of you, if you consider the matter in depth, will realize that those are things we 
simply cannot think about now. We cannot even say that we agree on principle because 
then it would open the door to further demands by other sections. But we are thinking 
about the entire wage structure. With all our effort not to create dislocation I am afraid 
any basic change will create dislocation. At that moment, all honourable members opposite 
will be there to exploit the situation which will arise because of that dislocation. And if 
there is someone who is not getting a raise or may be getting a little less than others, then 
their unions-they are not our unions—will be incited to go on strike. So this is the situation. 
This is what I mean when I say that the Opposition creates trouble. I do not mean that 
they are creating the shortages or they are responsible for all developments. 


Many hon. Members themselves confessed that the main purport of the no-confidence 
motion was not no-confidence at all, and that the motion was brought merely because 
yesterday a debate was not allowed—actually, this had nothing to do with the Government, 
because we were not asked.... (/nterruptions) No, we did not interfere with the Speakers 
ruling in this case. He looked up the rules and several Members, including those of the 
Opposition, aided him about what the rules said. So, I hope that all these considerations.... 
(Interruptions) We are not at this moment discussing the ruling. All I am saying is that 
several hon. Members from Opposition began their speeches yesterday by saying that this 
no-confidence motion would not have come, had an adjournment motion or a debate been 
allowed the day before.... 


a मर अर ae a 2k ae 2c aie 
Not yesterday but the day before, because it is already the 10 Unterruptions). Therefore, 


now that they have had their debate, and they have all had their say, I hope they will 
withdraw their no-confidence motion. 


CC a १. ८.०, ९.९, . 


Anti-inflationary Programmes* 


Mr. Speaker, Sir, many Members have called this a ritual performance and, as my 
colleague said earlier, it has indeed become regular... 


ok ok 2 ae मंद tot 


Feature... We have come to expect a no-confidence motion in every session of the 
House. I am not, as one hon. Member of the Opposition has claimed, allergic to such a 
motion; none of us 1s, ॥ fact, I welcome them. It is one of the few occasions I get to 
speak in the House. It gives us an opportunity of telling the House what determined efforts 
we are making to face the present situation. But listening to many of the speeches of the 
Members opposite, it did not seem to me that they were taking their own motion very 
seriously. We do take it seriously. We welcome this opportunity. But I would also say that 
I was a little surprised that this motion should come up when it did. Only the day before, 
we had a very friendly meeting with the leaders of the Opposition. 


me fe गुर i 2c मं 4c अप kc 


For the first time after a long time it was not acrimonious and in that meeting we 
discussed what subjects should be further discussed, and also whether they were all willing 
to try to find some areas in which we could cooperate. The very next day, after this friendly 
beginning, it came as a surprise to me when J heard that there was a No-confidence Motion.. 


How little faith you have in this No-confidence Motion was displayed by a chivalrous 
friend opposite when, far from trying to remove us, he wanted to help us to remain by his 
good advice. 


2K ak a ak मंद ae ak ak 


Apart from all this joking**, the situation is indeed serious. At no time have we said 
that it is not serious. At no time have we tried to absolve ourselves from all responsibility. 
It is obvious that the government of the day is responsible for whatever happens. But 


4 Replying to the debate on the Motion of No-Confidence in the Council of Ministers, L.S. Deb., 25 July, 1974, 
cc. 296-317. 

** Commenting upon Shri Piloo Mody’s remarks, “What I implied was that this Government should go and a new 
Government be reconstituted. This is what the No-Confidence Motion is about” and also on Shri Shyamnandan 
Mishra’s comment, ‘That means, you have faith in the Prime Minister and she is to re-constitute the Cabinet’’ in 
response to which Shri Piloo Mody further said, ' have reconstituted the Cabinet.” 


331 


Opposition Members are in the habit of taking out any one statement out of the speeches 
that my colleagues or I make and then projecting it as if that was the only point made at 
that particular meeting. Usually, in speeches, we mention many aspects. If I said that 
inflation was a global phenomenon—it is a global phenomenon—but I did not say it was 
entirely due to that. In fact, I explained the differences also. I am only giving this as an 
instance. 


Twenty years ago, in the United States, a particular Senator created a situation when 
everyone was suspected, and even honest and upright people of all sections were persecuted 
in the name of supposed loyalty to the country. At that time, this shadow fell on us also. 
At one time, there were loud voices of criticism from people who saw communism lurking 
not only in the communist party but also in our party. 


Today, everything is made to look corrupt. Everyone is painted in black colours in the 
hope that at least a few people will believe some of these false charges. 


Several of the speeches made by hon. Members of the Opposition have been full of 
insinuations and fabrications. Again many matters have been raised not for the first time 
but which have come up during Question Hour, during Half-an-Hour Discussions and on 
other occasions, and full replies have been given. 


I have enough faith in the good sense of our people. I know that they will not be misled. 
I do not have to defend myself. I think, the people of the country will defend me if they 
so choose and, if they do not so choose, I shall still abide by their verdict. We believe in 
democracy and we always accept the people’s verdict. It is very strange to say that if some 
of us win the elections, we do it only through black money but if somebody on the other 
side wins it, then the people have really, and truly, elected him ! (Jnterruptions) Please do 
not go into all those things. We can also take many names if we wish to do so. But I do 
not want to make any allegations, nor do I want to go into all those matters as to who was 
associated with whom, who collected money and such other matters. This Government, 
this Party and I shall always abide by the people’s verdict. We shall be judged by how we 
serve the people, what we do to lighten their burden of ancient wrongs, injustices and 
inequalities, to what extent we are able to help them to defend their freedoms and how far 
we can harness their inner strength towards a more meaningful life. I think, these are the 
matters on which the country will judge us, and if they want to throw us out, we shall 
take it in that spirit and we shall not behave like all the present opposition parties alleging 
that somebody came in through false methods and so on. 


I would only ask the hon. Members of the Opposition not to underrate the strength of 
our people, because in spite of all the present hardships—we are not minimising the 
hardships by any means—the nation is far stronger than it has ever been ; it is certainly 
far stronger than what it was in 1947. In fact, it is this strength and this self-confidence 
which has enabled us to meet the political burdens of 1971 or the economic burdens of 
today. 


Much has been said about the railway strike. I do not want to go into details because 
we had a motion on it on the last day of the last Session and this time also several people 


ir A 5 


332 


on our side have spoken about it; the Railway Minister has spoken; and most of the points 
made on the other side were made on the previous occasion also. 


कं के हैः me और और ae ae ae 


At that time also you spoke about it. Now you say that it came afterwards*. But at 
that time you said that it was taking place. On any such occasions, there are cases of 
excesses. I cannot say to what extent this has happened in this particular case. But knowing 
the situation, I know that somehow some excesses do take place in spite of our best 
intentions. However, nobody has ever been told to victimise or harass any person. ....So 
far as I know, considering the very large numbers of people involved, considering the 
gravity of the situation, one can say that there was hardly any victimisation. We are 
treating—-and I would like to assure the hon. Members that we shall continue to treat— 
with sympathy those amongst the railwaymen who were misguided into going on the strike. 
And it is only the intention of those politicians who forced the strike which we consider 
to be frankly partisan and political. They did the worst they could do. (/nterruptions) I 
know that a large number of railwaymen did go on strike. Nobody says that they did not. 
But I also know that a much larger number did not go on strike and they managed, in 
spite of tremendous odds, to keep the trains running. 


Fortunately, supplies to key industrial installations and feed movements were 
maintained. ..(/nterruptions). The country is aware of the great harm that was inflicted upon 
the national economy. It is not easy to absorb the damage of round-about Rs. 600 crore. 


a मर ae ae a और eK मं 


I think before you came here. I have already said that I do not shirk any responsibility.** 
I am willing to take the responsibility for what we have done, if you want, even for what 
we have not done and even for what you have done; but let us not waste time in arguing 
about it. 


One hon. Member referred—I think he used the word ‘delight’—that we were delighted 
or that we were crowing over the victory. I should like to sincerely assure him that this is 
a rather strange word to use. None of us could view the problem in that light. We were 

not delighted at crushing the strike. We were not crowing over, nor did we regard it as a 
victory... 


a ak मर fea aL. 


We were greatly saddened and distressed over the whole situation and at the hardship 
of the railwaymen and their families, the inconveniences to which the common man and 
the poorer sections of the people were put, and the grave consequences to the nation’s 
economy and strength. There was no question of delight, but, as I said, the situation was 
so serious that it was a relief that the strike was over and this relief was shared by the vast 


majority of the Indian people. 


* Replying to a Member’s remark, “Victimisation came afterwards.” 
** Replying to Shri Jyotirmoy Bosu’s remark, “Rs. 1000 crore.” 


333 


One of the other misconceptions created by the other side is the constant use of the 
word ‘wage-freeze’. My colleague, the Finance Minister, I think, the Defence Minister 
also as well as various members from this side have already clarified the point. But if I 
also do not state my viewpoint, then you will accuse me—‘You did not say’. Therefore, 
some of it I have to repeat. 


What the Government proposes is not a wage-freeze, as hon. Members have alleged. 
A wage-freeze would mean a ban on negotiations or on revision of wages. This is not 
what we have done. What we have done is not to impose any embargo on negotiations for 
wage revision either in the public or in the private sector. What we have done to enforce 
through these ordinances is that if as a result of wage revision, the workers become entitled 
to some increase in the emoluments, such increase should be deposited in a special account 
Carrying a special rate of interest. 


oC aK ae ak अर 2c a a 


The ordinance only asks the labour to save the increase in their emoluments for a certain 
limited period so as to give some respite to bring the inflationary situation under control. 
The amount saved by the workers is theirs and it will not be used by the Government, 
even temporarily, either for its current expenditure or for industries. 


ae ae मर ae मर OK mi भर और 


Our workers have been actuated by patriotic motives. In the past they have loaned 
money to the Government under various schemes. There is the small savings scheme. There 
is the pay-roll savings scheme, cumulative deposits scheme etc., to meet the emergencies 
posed by war or by influx of refugees and so on. 


The present inflationary situation poses, as my friend opposite, Dr. Rao, said, a grave 
threat to our social and political systems as the invasion we have faced. 


etek a ae a ae i ae 


We all know, and everybody here has commented on the fact, that inflation is the 
worst enemy of social justice. So, any step we take to curb inflation can be considered 
egalitarian. 


The ordinance provides for the payment of dearness allowance int» a special account, 
that is, only half the additional dearness allowance falling due for payment. The idea of 
compensating labour for the increase in the cost of living through the periodical adjustment 
of the dearness allowance was evolved during the second world war. Has this system really 
provided an effective safeguard ? This is the question which arises. Labour representatives 
and others are aware that an increase in dearness allowance is often only an invitation to 
traders to push up their prices. It is a spiral or vicious circle. As soon as dearness allowance 
is given, prices rise and more dearness allowance is demanded. 


Many factors contribute to the rise in prices and all these have to be tackled together. 
You cannot look at only one side of the problem. A pertinent point made by Dr. Rao was 


334 


that in recent months, an inflationary psychology has been building up. Traders and hoarders 
profit in such an atmosphere. People expect prices to rise continually and since income 
can only rise partially, they can never catch up with this rise in prices. So, this psychology 
has to be effectively countered. Slowing down the process of the continuous injection of 
money into the economy is one of the important steps by which we can hope to defeat the 
expectations of traders and hoarders. This steep reduction in the expansion of money supply 
has been accompanied and is going to be followed further by other energetic measures 
such as curtailing unnecessary Government expenditure and by augmenting production in 
strategic sectors of our economy. 


The House will perhaps remember that this is not the first time that either a part or the 
whole of the dearness allowance has been impounded in the form of contributions of 
provident fund or otherwise. Many State Governments, in fact eight, from different regions 
of the country, have also done likewise for several years. The Government of India also 
took similar steps in 1967-68 when we were just recovering from an unprecedented drought. 


So, all that we have now done is to extend the scheme So as to cover employees of the 
private sector, in the interest of parity of treatment. This is the only new thing that has 
come about. The amounts paid into a special account may be retained for a slightly longer 
period than in the case of the scheme enforced in the past, but, at the same time, if the 
period of retention is longer, the rate of interest is also appreciably higher. 


I should like to appeal to workers to try to understand that an increase in money wages 
will not help them unless an effective anti-inflationary campaign is launched and is 
successful. 


ic ak मर a 24 मर aK He मं 


An increase in wages to workers will not help them. As regards welfare of the workers, 
a very large number of them are unorganised labour. Their welfare depends on our success 
in bringing the prices under control. I have no doubt about that. We have brought forward 
all these measures in order to try to deal with this situation. (/nterruptions). There can be 
growth in the economy if the extreme measures we have taken succeed. At the same time, 
I am sure, hon. Members are aware that every sanctioning or giving of Dearness Allowance 
has an immediate effect on the finances of State Governments and their capacity to continue 
their programmes, whether of development or of helping the weaker sections. Many 
essential programmes are affected, because more and more money goes into administrative 
costs. 


मर मंद मर 2 मै मं 4K 


We cannot do that through an Ordinance*. We can only take certain steps. We are trying 
to arrest the inflation as a first step. Only then, can we think of checking the price rise. 


(Interruptions). 


* Replying to Shri Indrajit Gupta’s question, “Why don’t you freeze the price 7” 


335 


Members of the Opposition want to have the cake and eat it too. Everyone wants 
Oppesite things to happen simultaneously. They want Government to curb the money supply 
and at the same time criticize Government when it takes concrete steps to do so. I fully 
realise that logical consistency is not the strong point of the Opposition, especially when 
each party has 15 own theory of politics and economics and its own point of view. | 


Now, some Members of the Opposition, particularly, those claiming to be radical, have 
often pointed out that it is no use trying to control Government’s budgetary deficit alone. 
Bank credit to the commercial sector should also be brought under strict surveillance. The 
rise in the bank rate and corresponding adjustments in rates of interest charged by the banks 
on loans to different categories of borrowers will slow down the pace of expansion of credits 
to the commercial sector. The rise in interest rates will discourage the build-up of 
inventories. At the same time, the rise in deposit rates will benefit savers and enable the 
banks to mobilize savings both in urban and in rural areas. You have probably heard that 
the Reserve Bank is arranging a strict scrutiny of the top accounts of all the banks. This 
scrutiny will strengthen our attempts to control the use of bank money for building 
inventories or for other purposes which are of a lower priority. (Interruptions). The private 
sector has to be subjected to the same degree of fiscal discipline which the people nghtly 
expect the Government to observe in the present difficult situation. 


We have to enforce discipline not merely in the use of financial resources but also in 
the use of other scarce materials such as steel and cement. These proposals are being worked 
out in some detail. All these measures relating to wages, dearness allowance, dividends 
and compulsory savings for the higher income groups, control of credit to the private sector 
and discipline in the use of the scarce material should be viewed together. 


At the same time, I agree with all the Members who have raised the point—many of 
them have—that we have to take care of the necessary supplies; in particular, we have to 
augment supply of articles of mass consumption, of what the economists call wage goods, 
that is, foodgrains, common cloth...edible 01 and so on. 


et ak ak 2 ak मर 


Equally important at this moment, in fact, of the utmost importance, is agricultural 
production. That holds the key to the success of our efforts at controlling prices. 


2 ak ak Heke ok whe oe ak 


Fertiliser is in a class by itself, and I do not think that it can be nixed up with other 
items*. It is essential for our farmers and we are doing everything possible not only to 
increase its production in India but to get whatever is available from outside and 
simultaneously to maximise the utilisation of composit and organic fertiliser. 


me ae मं ae aie a we ae a 
It is not a going-back. These are two different situations**. One type of simple life is 
where you have not known anything like science or sophistication, and the other 1s that 


* Replying to Shri Madhu Limaye’s question, ‘What about increase in fertiliser prices ?” 
** Replying to Shri B.N. Reddy’s remark, “We go back to Ramrajya”’. 


having the knowledge and the experience you go to a simple life, using what you have 
learnt in the meantime. That is the type of simplicity that we want. So, it is not going 
back to the old. 


a मं मर He अर eho 


I was just talking about agricultural production. Hon. Members are aware that I have 
been going round with my colleagues and with other experts and officials to various States. 
We have asked the Chief Ministers to immediately personally direct, guide and supervise 
agricultural production programmes in their States.... 


a 2 मे a aie मं ae ale oc 


Perhaps, he can go and ask the other people who attended the conference*. I have found 
great enthusiasm amongst our young and other older workers also at district and other levels 
in the States, and I have found that this exchange of views has been extremely useful to 
the Centre as well as to the States. There has unfortunately not been adequate co-ordination 
between the experience of one State and the experience of another. This is going to be 
very useful. 


In the whole world, whether it is in agriculture or in other subjects, our knowledge is 
increasing all the time and there has to be proper application of it. 


Recently I also met some of the heads of our agricultural colleges. We have to give 
the greatest priority to our extension work. Their extension workers are doing extremely 
good work, but this has to be strengthened and expanded. 


A great deal has been said about black money. My colleague, the Finance Minister, 
has explained the steps that are being taken. Some important aspects of the problem are 
often ignored. 

2: ie भर ic afc और oi oc ae 


In a sense, black money is a creature of shortages. So one of the effective means of 
dealing with the problem is to remove the vested interests in shortages and to increase 
production. Some of the steps taken to increase production such as higher procurement 
prices for foodgrains themselves tend to effect a rise in prices. It is also true that some of 
the controls to check prices have bred corruption. We simply cannot say that all controls 
can be removed. If they could be removed without increasing the growth of economic 
monopoly, then we could do so.We have to see how to minimise malpractices and see that 
nobody takes advantage of the situation. 

2 2c मर me akc मै me और और 


We have acknowledged that some monopoly houses or all monopoly houses have taken 
advantage of the situation and this is one of the problems which we have to face. Certainly 


they have to be dealt with very strongly**. 


* Responding to Sbri Shyamnandan Mishra’s question, ‘What did the Prime Minister do in the conferences which 


she had ? She added only culture to agriculture 7” 
** Replying to Shri Bhogendra Jha's remark, “Except the monopoiists”’. 


337 


So this is the paradox of the situation underlying the complexity of the problem we 
face. It is easy for the Opposition to speak different things at different times and in different 
voices. They demand higher procurement price for one section and lower prices for another 
section, continuance of subsidy for one section and so on and so forth. But it is just not 
possible to have all these things simultaneously. In the circumstances in which we find 
ourselves today, larger production of essential goods and an efficient public distribution 
system should be the most essential components of our programme against black money. 
Of course, this must be supplemented by the firmest action against hoarders and tax evaders. 


Something must also be said about smuggling. This is also an evil. It must be combated 
with all our strength. On an earlier occasion, I spoke about it somewhere. The Defence 
Minister has also spoken about it though not here. One hon. Member quoted his speech 
misinterpreting it that Government wanted to put all the responsibility on the people. That 
is not the point at all. The point is that in these matters unless we have the co-operation of 
the people, we cannot tackle it. This is not a matter. which the army can deal with; it is not 
a matter which the police can deal with. It is a matter where the neighbours of those who 
indulge in anti-social acts are the first people who can help to solve this. This I think, is, 
what the Defence Minister said. : 


ae ak 2k 2 oi a af ak ak 


I have been talking about this subject long ago. But Shri Madhu Mehta has added his 
voice to this and I welcome it.* He is taking interest in this anti-smuggling campaign. As 
a part of this campaign, he has also suggested that at least everybody should boycott all 
smuggled goods. That is the least that everybody can do. I would like very strongly to 
commend that. 


4k मर मं मर ake मर 


I have also said—this was said by the Defence Minister too—that there should be a social 
boycott of all those people whether they are smugglers, tax evaders, hoarders or black 
marketeers. ** 


a कं 2 me मर me ae मं 


A group of Ministers is trying to recast our textile policy because it is true that although 
the textile producers and millowners have made very large profits, they have not abided 
by our rules for producing larger quantities of the type of cloth that is nezded by the people. 
So, we are going to impose definite obligations on the textile mills to produce common 
cloth of coarse and medium varieties. This policy will be vigorously imposed, and all those 
who come in the way of effective implementation of this policy will be dealt with ruthlessly. 
The textile industry, which is our most important industry, has to accept certain social 
obligations. If it defaults in the fulfilment of these obligations, the full force of Government 
will be brought to bear on the defaulting mills. 


* Replying to Shri Piloo Mody’s question, “Why don’t you join Madhu Mehta ?” 
** Answering Shri Indrajit Gupta’s question, “What about boycotting of smugglers who are in respectable positions?” 


नाक 


Several Members have talked about transport and power bottlenecks. These are really 
of grave concern to all of us and we are trying to remove the difficulties which have come 
in the way. Last year there was a big shortfall in production, but this year, there has been 
significant improvement in the movement of vital raw materials like coal. Even during 
a railway strike, this improvement was evident. We are grateful to the railway workers 

r this. 


With regard to power also, I have been in close touch with the Chief Ministers and we 
are all looking into the problems of generation as well as distribution of power. There are 
some signs of significant improvement. 


I should like to tell the House that adequate imports of foodgrains to supplement 
domestic availability have been arranged. I do not think it would help to give figures here, 
because we know that our food statistics have been distorted by traders at home and for 
manipulation in foreign markets. This had an immediate effect on the prices. So, the import 
of foodgrains should enable us to maintain the public distribution system at a satisfactory 
level. At the same time, vigorous action will be taken against hoarders and profiteers. But 
again this is a matter in which public co-operation and co-operation of all parties is very 
much needed. I know there have been cases where the district authorities have not taken 
kindly to such help, but wherever such instances have been brought to our notice, we have 
looked into them and J think the situation in this regard has improved, and the Government’s 
performance has improved. I am sorry to hear that in Bihar there are some students involved 
in the agitation who have tried to prevent anti-hoarding activities. 


2K aK ok ae 2c और mie 2c मं 


These are the reports which we have received*. 


मैप he मै fc ok मर te aie ac 


Just now we are talking about foodgrains and suddenly you jump to examination*™. | 
am informing them about one or two incidents which came to our notice. So far as my 
knowledge goes, this information has appeared in the Press, but it has not been denied. 


i should like to go back to what I was saying, namely, we have to fight the menace of 
inflation with united will and determination. We seek the co-operation of all sections of 
society, of our workers in factories, on the land and in farms, even of the businessman 
and industrialists-because, we want to say to them this is not the time to take advantage 
of the difficulties of the people—and the civil servants at all levels in implementing our 
anti-inflationary programme. I appeal to the Opposition also to help and not hinder these 


attempts of ours. 


* Responding to Shri Shyamnandan Mishra’s remark, “Completely wrong”. 
** Replying to Shri Shyamnandan Mishra who intervened and said that he wanted to bring to the notice of the Prime 
Minister one Circular which showed how unfair means had been permitted by the University in the examination 
halls and remarked, “That is how you are conducting the examinations.” 


ON 


कर oe A 


DU Ss iets ised nies Bas 


ENS 


SEA Ne Stearn eh Tt Mauna 


“९८२० 


obs 


(८ 

a") 

15 
+ 
4 
tae 
ie 

४ iJ 
“1 
oe) 
2५ 
pi 
¥ 
27; ५ 
2 
an 
“35 
4 
aa 


I have been twitted by some opposition leader for referring to inflation in other 
Couptries. I should like to say that I have never over-simplified our inflation by saying 
that it is wholly due to what happens outside. But no one can deny that parts of our economy 
are directly affected by the rise in prices of vital imports. There is a steep rise in the prices 
of petroleum products and of fertilizers and we have to pay more for our imports, wherever 
they come from. This is an economic reality. Foreign exchange resources which could have 
been used to import other essential goods in short supply have been absorbed by the 
mounting bill on imports of oil and one or two other commodities. 


So, to the Opposition I would only say: do criticise us to your heart’s content, as often 
as you like, with all the vehemence and oratory at your command. 


He मं मं मु! अर ak mK गंध मं 


We will go the way which we consider night.* If you are able to convince us on some 
points, we shall not stand on prestige; we shall accept your suggestion. We rarely get any 
alternative formulations. There has been advice as to how to change the government, when 
to change it and so on. 


afc ake ak ok 22h मर 


We certainly do not object, as I think one hon. Member alleged, to one or more 
Opposition parties. But what saddens us is that the Opposition is obsessed by only one 
thing, and that is the Congress party, what is the Congress Party doing, what is it saying 
in its party forums, what is being said in Central Hall. They are far more occupied with 
these matters than by the basic problems of the country. This is what pains us. 


ae ah ak a ae मर Weak ae 


If you were not so obsessed with us you would not bother about our circulars to our 
own members**. Since you have given so much advice, may I give you advice on how to 
strengthen the Opposition ? 


If you get rid of this obsession with the Congress party and deal with your own 
problems, deal with the problems of the country, you will find that you will gather more 
strength. We shall not be able to erode that strength. 


We have also been accused of doing everything for votes. Simultaneously, the same 
people tell us that our Ordinances are very unpopular. How can both the statements be 
true ? It is not that we disregard the people’s verdict. As I have already said, we will always 
regard the people’s verdict. We have the greatest respect and faith in the people. But we 
do take steps which we consider necessary even though they may annoy one section or 
another or are misunderstood by one section or another. I have said this publicly. Every 
political party would like to remain in power. But I can assure hon. Members opposite 


* Responding to Shri Shyamnandan Mishra’s comment, “But you will go your own way.” 
** Replying to Shri Shyamnandan Mishra’s observation, “Your party issued a circular even about your members 
hobnobbing with Members of the Opposition”. _ 


७ 


|" 
०, pa 
settee 


that I personally have no desire that I should remain permanently in power or even that 
the Congress Party should remain permanently in power. 


What I should like to say is that while we would certainly like to have the people’s 
support it is more important for us to do the right thing today even if by doing so, we 
create a better atmosphere for the Opposition to win in the future. 


af a मर ae af के ae मं a 


Not solicitous*. What I am saying is that we are concerned for the future of the country, 
even though it may make us do something which may be misunderstood by certain people 
today and it may even turn them against us. Even then, we have to do what will strengthen 
the foundation of this country and what we consider to be for the people’s welfare and for 
a better future. 


One thing more. Let the opposition parties not make out that the Indian people are a 
race of mean men and women. This is not a selfish nation; this is not a corrupt nation. 
This 1s a nation which has seen visions of greatness, greatness not of conventional armed 
might or economic arrogance, but a greatness measured in terms of human worth. What 
can we ever achieve if we erode the people’s pride in their own country, pride in themselves, 
pride in their capacity to do things. There are people who run down themselves. But the 
future is not going to be built by them. So, I would only request the hon. Members opposite 
not to weaken the people’s will to face this challenge. 


As I have said earlier, the people have shown determination; they have shown 
tremendous forbearance, the capacity to face hardships, the capacity to face danger. And 
today we face all these things. There is a tremendous challenge to us on the economic 
front and on many other front. We can face them only if the people are convinced that 
they are able to face them. Saying all the time that nothing has happened, that the nation 
is going down-hill which, of course, is not a fact at all and in spite of the many hardships 
and difficulties, it is not going down-hill, it is not in a state of ruin or chaos...(/nterruptions). 


a fe भर 44 मं ae ok a 


I am not entering into any confrontation with you. I am not going to be provoked by 
anything that you say**. It is not a question of using particular words. It is the day-in and 
day-out sayings which weaken the people’s will in their own ability. This has been told to 
me by young scientists, this has been said by engineers, this has been said by farmers; 
almost every section says day-in and day-out the country is being denigrated. If this country 
is going down-hill, let some of us, those who can afford it at least, leave it and go to other 
countries. This is the type of atmosphere that has been built. So I would only urge on this 
House to demonstrate our will and our determination to face this challenge with courage, 


determination and humour by rejecting this motion. 


* Replying to Shri Shyarnnandan Mishra’s remark, “Solicitous”’. 
** Replying to Shri Shyamnandan Mishra, who said, ‘I challenge. Can you give me even a single instance?” 


341 


Decline in Economic Growth Rate* 


Mr. Speaker, if I may start with the last speaker’s** remarks, it was rather astonishing 
and amazing—TI do not know what word to use—to hear the words corruption and our 
taking people away from one party to another used in connection with Gujarat. Perhaps 
the hon. Member remembers that when the movement started in Gujarat, it started because 
one particular individual—I am not blaming him, nor am I judging him here, I am only 
Saying what was said... 


ae ie af mie 2h मं ae afc ae 


There was one individual who was blamed by the entire Opposition. He was blamed 
by the press, and various allegations were made against him. Now, we were prepared to 
look into these allegations provided we had full information. Various individuals came to 
me and said that they would give the information so that we could enquire into them. We 
asked this person to resign from Chief Ministership because of the allegations. 


se ie a We 2c भर we 3c और 


I do not know***, I am not judging him, I said, but when he resigned and formed 
another party, he seemed to suddenly become blameless and all these people were making 
arrangements with him and his party (/nterruptions). | am not giving him a certificate 
(Interruptions). Because hon. Members are in the habit of misquoting. They imagine that 
I do the same. I always give what I consider an honest assessment (/nterruptions). I should 
like to say that I had given an earlier assessment of the internal situation. I have heard 
similar remarks passed in this House before the previous elections also. I gave my 
assessment then, and I would like to know whose assessment came true ? 1 have given 
my assessment about the international situation. I have been ridiculed and abused; 1 have 
been criticised. But I should like to know whose assessment has come true ultimately ? 
Whatever we have said about any part of the world... 


Whether it was West Asia, or whether it was Vietnam...(/nterruptions). 


That is the reason why, no matter what hon. Members opposite may say, India’s voice 
is heard with respect in every part of the globe, in every international gathering. Your saying 
that it 1s not true, does not change the truth (/nterruptions). 


* Replying to the debate on the Motion of No-Confidence in the Council of Ministers, 
LS. Deb., 9 May, 1975. cc. 523-84. 


** Shri 7. 6. Mavalankar. 
*** Replying to Shri Shyamnandan Mishra’s remark, “So, he was a lily-white !” 


342 


I am prepared to bear and I have borne all types of abuses, false allegations and the 
sort of language that one sometimes hears in this House. Whenever we try to reply, even 
in a very small way the entire Opposition gets so upset that they cannot bear it; they could 
not bear even the mild speech of my colleague Shri Jagjivan Ram... (Interruptions) 


I do not claim brilliance ; I do not claim sincerity. I do speak from the heart; I do say 
what I really think. 


I did not make a noise when any Member from the opposite side was speaking. I did 
interrupt a few times, because Shyamnandan Babu said, he was enjoying it (Interruptions) 
and felt happy ! This was the only reason why I imterrupted him a couple of times. I did 
not interrupt anybody else. 


These years have been exceedingly difficult not only for our country, but for the whole 
world, for every country. It is not true to say that it is only the capitalist world which is 
free from these difficulties. We have had leaders from other countries as well. It is not as 
if they did not talk of these matters. All of them said that the inflation had hit their 
economies. That is why none of their newspapers, none of those countries, has exploited 
this crisis to malign the capitalist countries as one might have expected them to do. They 
appreciated the fact that any kind of instability in Europe, any kind of upsetting of the 
European economy was bound to affect their economies and their countries. 


Today, the world is not divided and isolated into separate islands. It is one world. Some 
people may say that their is a second world, a third world or a fourth world. It is one world. 
Each, country has its own policies, difficulties, problems and view points, yet it is one 
world, and every country is affected by what happens in other countries. It 1s not true to 
say that our problems are the same as those of other countries. It is perfectly true ag hon. 
Members have said that when there was inflation in European countries, they were able 
to help the unemployed, they were able to give higher wages. But this does not mean that 
the basic situation is different or that the causes are entirely within our control. I am not 
saying that we are faultless. Nobody has said that. Nobody has claimed that there would 
be a miraculous change either in the poverty of India or the economic standards of India 
or in the lessening of disparities. These are the objectives towards which we are working. 
We are struggling. We do fall in the struggle, but we also get up again and again and keep 
going ahead. 


Time and again, we have had aggression. There are few countries in the world which 
have faced so many difficult problems and challenges. After Independence and more 
specially in the last few years, India has faced many problems and challenges. Some were 
due to our own mistakes; some because we did not foresee the difficulties and we could 
not make a correct assessment. Certainly, we are not faultless; we are human. But many 
difficulties arose because of events which were beyond our control. The hon. Member very 
grandly asked : What has been achieved in these last few years ? Has he forgotten what 
has been achieved ? Have the House forgotten it ? Has the world forgotten it ? Was it a 
small thing for us to face the Bangladesh crisis as we did ? Was it a small thing to face 
tremendous droughts as we did ? (Interruptions) Certainly, we shall capitalise on any good 


achievement. 


Ea a 


Let us not compare our country with countries which started at higher levels of 
development. Let us compare ourselves, as Shri Priya Ranjan Das Munsi or somebody 
- else here said, with countries which are around us. How much democracy do we see here 
9 (Interruptions) | am not yielding poverty is there. It is not a poverty that suddenly errupted. 
May be, our young people do not know what poverty was like in India before Independence 
(Interruptions). 1 have travelled in this country, in the villages and in the cities. I have no 
hesitation in saying that there is not the sort of poverty which we used to see 10 or 15 
years ago. There 1s absolutely no doubt about it. Anybody, whether he has come from 
outside or anybody जा our own country who has taken the trouble to go round the country 
will agree. This does not mean that we do not have pockets of poverty and hardship. Of 
course, they exist. But the question is : Could we have changed this situation in a few : 
years ? We simply could not. : 


Do you think a few years is much in the life of a nation ? This nation was under : 
feudalism and it was under colonialism for so long. Immediately after we became free, : 
we had all the troubles of Partition and immediately afterwards we had aggression. It was 
not an ordinary thing. I should like you to know that even in those countries where a certain 
amount of equality has been achieved, if you go to see the standard of the people in the 
interior pockets of those countries, you will see what people eat and how they live. 


aie भर मं a HK मर मंच मैप मर 


I do not think that the standard there is much higher for all the people* (#/207771075) . 
You may like the system that China has. I think, most of us here would not tolerate that 
system. Specially those who dare to talk about democracy, would they like to have the 
kind of system that China has, where nobody is allowed to speak ? I do know something 
about China and of Vietnam. In fact, I had the great privilege of considering Dr. Ho Chi : 
Minh as a friend (/nterruptions). Just shouting like this does not change the situation. I 
happen to be on my legs. If I have to be heard, I have to raise my voice. Itdoes not mean —_ *£ 
that those who are sitting should shout at the same time. 


Se eR RE rane BOE DERI बी 


As it has been said, this No-confidence Motion has become a nitual. 


ek ok eke ok ok ok a 


Every time they feel that they must have a no-confidence motion at the beginning, 
somehow every time there is a noise that it is going to take place in the beginning, but I 3 
do not know what happens, whether they cannot muster the number of people so quickly 
or what; this time also we were informed, at least I was informed, that it would be on the 
8th; I reorganized my programme to enable me to be here that day; then suddenly we were | 
told that it was not on the 8th, it was the 9th... 


eK ae mK 3K अर me ic मं 


* Replying to a Member's question, ‘What about Korea ?” 


The Minister told me.* I was given in writing (/nterruptions). It is not a figment of 
imagination. 


This 1s no consultation**. Surely, if there is a motion of no-confidence, it has to be 
conveyed to the Prime Minister. It has nothing to do with one secretariat or 
another...(/nterruptions). 1 do not know why he is getting so excited. One of the charms 
of Shyamnandan Babu used to be his sense of humour, but sometimes he seems to lose it, 
and this is one of those occasions. 


मंद a ak ae ok ak 040K 


...[ have said this many times, but I have to repeat it because the allegations are 
repeated. What are the norms which we use in judging whether this is democracy or 
anything else ? I heard one hon. Member there taunting my colleague whether he knows 
of this change or that change whether I changed anybody as I liked? Now, as it has 
happened, I do consult my colleagues. But if you see how democracy works in other 
countries including the U.K. which is supposed to be the mother of Parliaments or any 
other country, does the Prime Minister not reshuffle the Cabinet or drop any member of 
it? Does he consult people to say who will be there ? As a matter of fact, my friend here 
will bear me out. Once we were sitting with a Minister from another country, a democratic 
European country who exclaimed that such and such Minister in his country had been there 
for a long time and that he had been changed; when asked after how long, he said that he 
was there for three years and that his portfolio was being changed. I don’t think his opinion 
was taken for changing the portfolio. When we consider these things, we have to have 
some norms, how democracy works in other countries...(/nterruptions). I do not want to 
argue on this point, because it is self-evident. There is freedom of speech. I think, Mr. 
Frank Anthony spoke of the Fundamental Rights... 


oe oe 2 2k a मंध भर 


Is it not an insult to an hon. Member to accuse him in this manner*** ? He is a senior 
Member of this House...(/nterruptions) 


What greater proof is there of freedom of speech, than the meetings that are held and 
-the speeches that are made and what appears in our newspapers and other publications ? 
What greater evidence could one need of freedom of association than is 


there...(/nterruptions). 


It is only in respect of those people who indulge in violence or some such thing that 
any action has been taken. If there is any wrong action, we shall certainly correct it. There 
is no doubt about it. The MISA etc., are not political instruments. The country has gone 
through and is going through an extremely difficult period. We have not suppressed any 


agitation...(Interruptions). 


* Replying to a Member’s question, “Who told you ?” 
** Commenting upon Shri Shyamnandan Mishra’s intervention, “It is our sweet will, our privilege, our prerogative. 
We do not depend on anybody else. Sir, let your office not act in concert with the Prime Minister’s office in many 
matters; we have many papers being passed on by your office to the Prime Minister's office. (Interruptions)”’. 


*“** Reacting to Shri Jyotirmoy Bosu's remark, “He was specially sent for over the telephone to make a speech”. 


Shri Mavalankar spoke about electoral reforms in Gujarat. You have discussed the 
matter while I was away and I think, a great deal was decided. A meeting was supposed 
to be held after my return. 


ae He मर ae a ae ae a fc 


We are not responsible for that*. I got a message from the Minister that he had received 
a letter asking that the meeting be postponed. That is why it was not held. We are not 
responsible for postponing it...(/nterruptions). 


I am glad that a dialogue has begun and I do hope, we shall try to keep acrimony 
out of it. There are many areas in which there can be a dialogue and working together and 
we should always try for it...... (Interruptions) 


The tasks for the Government are many, but the first and foremost task is to hold this 
land of great diversity together and to give it stability. This is what we are trying to do. I 
was not here, when the hon. Member opposite spoke. He tried to say that we were trying 
to create chaos. Nobody who watches the Indian scene can say that the Government is 
creating chaos. It is obviously these agitations which started non-violently which have 
always created violence around them. Certain institutions.... are responsible for this. 


Meat मर Hak ak emi मं 


The people have given full support to our endeavour to check inflation in spite of 
tremendous difficulties. We are aware that these measures were unpopular measures. We 
are aware that they did impose hardship on the workers, the farmers, the salary earners 
the housewives and everybody. And yet, I think people tried to see the bigger question 
that more inflation would create greater difficulty in future and that is why I think they 
bore these difficulties. We are not complacent. We know that inflationary pressures have 
not been fully contained, but, unfortunately, already the Opposition is bullying us to 
withdraw some of these measures. But we cannot afford to relax cur efforts. 


I have already spoken of how economic development has been slowed down because 
of these forces. Unemployment is there. We do not deny it. But our revised Plan will 
stumulate industry and overall, production and will lead to the generation of jobs, specially, 
for skilled hands. If the nation is to find more employment, the wage demands of those 
already employed will have to be held in check. The Opposition encourages workers to 
demand higher emoluments and, at the same time, they pay lip service to the unemployed. 


There is no question of any slackening of our efforts against smuggling and other 
economic crimes. We have to pursue these matters. Sometimes, in the beginning, such news 
sound more spectacular and now it has become a little stale, but the work is continuing. I 
wish the Opposition would live not in an imaginary world of its own fabrication but try to 
see the reality of to-day. 


We have been accused of serving the interests of foreign monopolists or the Indian 
monopolists. There are some advocates of Indian capital and monopolists in this very House 


* Responding to Shri Jyotirmoy Bosu’s remark, “It was.never held”. 


and most of them are in the Opposition...(/nterruptions). They always try to run down 
our public sector and praise the efficiency of the capitalist system. Our objective is clear 
and our record is straight. We want to run the economy in such a way that the interests of 
the masses are safeguarded and the power of monopoly is curtailed whenever it grows. 


2 ok ak ae oe ak we oe a 


Many tales have been told and many charges have been repeated. I am not going to go 
into them because the concerned Ministers have replied to them in both Houses. The habit 
of naming officials is unfortunate. I thought there was a rule that officials who cannot defend 
themselves here should not be named in the House. Something was said about an official 
in my Secretariat. If there are certain problems, meetings are held. But it is absolutely untrue 
to say that any deal was struck with businessmen or any industrialists were present at any 
meeting in his room or, so far as I am aware, at any other place in my Secretariat... 


ae oe मंद 2 ak ak ate a ak 


Obviously, I am sure there are occasions when, for instance, members of Chambers of 
Commerce or other associations come to me in groups everytime they get elected and 
various other organisations such as labour unions, also come and see me*. 


Much has been said about the emergency. I think anybody who 1s following international 
trends and the news of the world can see that the whole world situation is in a flux and 
that means that it is a period when anything can happen. Arms have accumulated in our 
region. There are new pressures in the seas around us and we should not weaken the 
government at such a time... 


a a मर mie 2c 2c mK a मं 


Our independence of thinking and action are accepted the world over. There is no doubt 
about it, whatever some people here may say and whatever some people abroad may like 


to propagate. 


A most peculiar point was made by someone saying that although there is the fear—-we 
have never named any country and we just do not know from where a threat may come— 
it was said : Why are we having trade talks with Pakistan?’ This seems to be a most peculiar 
thinking... 


a aie ak eK HOH He 


We always believe that we must try to be friends with every country and at the same 
time, we must be prepared for any threat of aggression... 


Our policy is to continue friendship with all. Infiltration and subversion still continue 
on our border and we cannot take chances. The only purpose of the emergency is to guard 
the country’s security. It is preposterous to suggest that we are gaining benefit from it or 


* Replying to Shri Jyotirmoy Bosu’s remark, “So far as you know”. 


347 


that legitimate political activity of the Opposition is curbed. The House is aware of the 
desperate attempt made by a small section of misguided elements in Nagland to seek foreign 
asSistance and to bring foreign arms and foreign intervention in our internal affairs. No 
Government can disown its obligation and responsibility under the Constitution to uphold 
the integrity of the country and to provide security to law abiding citizens of Nagaland to 
maintian peace. We know that the security forces in Nagaland as well as Mizoram are 
facing an extremely difficult task. They have secured the cooperation of large sections of 
people—patriotic citizens—in Nagaland and also in Mizoram. 


There is a strange talk of semi-—fascist'terror in Bengal. I think, Shr. Das Munsi has 
dealt with the question. But I can say that there is no terror in West Bengal today, either 
semi or quarter. But there was a reign of terror in Bengal when the CPM was in power. 
Women were afraid to move about. Women and youth brought down their rule. 


There was also talk of the suppression of. tribals and Harijans. No party or no 
Government has tried its utmost as ours to see that a better deal is given to these people. I 
know that what has been done is not adequate. I am fully aware of the incidents involving 
loss of their property which we greatly deplore. Some of this is due to the increasing 
economic tension as well as social obscurantism and certain prejudices. We must all together 
fight to eliminate this evil from our society. There is greater need for ‘official alertness but 
it 1s not true to say that there is unabated repression by the Government. Sometimes officials 
at lower levels neglect their duties or misuse their authority. But whenever this has come 
to our notice, we have come down strongly on them. 


Sir, as I said I do not want to go into the various allegations because they have been 
replied to and contradicted time and again. A letter has been tried to be read out and we 
also have clearly spoken about it. Nothing improper has been done. But I can say that 
those who pretend to be asleep cannot be woken up. A person who makes false charges 
knowingly cannot be convinced. 


Sir, I have done nothing to be afraid of, nothing to be ashamed of and nothing that has 
harmed the country. The people know it. They will not be misled by charges made by bitter 
individuals who are united only in anger and frustration. 


Much that should have been done has not been achieved. We fully realise this and we 
feel humble that such great challenges are still to be overcome. They cannot be dealt with 
by Government or individuals but by a united move to eradicate all these evils, whether 
social or economic. Let us fight each other in elections; let us fight each other on matters 
on which we do not agree not by violence but by peacefully talking together, by meeting 
together and not by trying to exploit the situation in Parliament and outside Parliament. 
Let us not use the occasions in such a way as to harm the country and delay the progress 
of the country. 


utah ae Sele 5 ate 


Defeat the Forces of Destabilisation* 


Mr. Speaker, Sir, it is rather difficult to know how to reply to this debate. Nothing 
new was said. Most of the issues have been raised earlier. Towards the end of the debate, 
the question concerning Shn Antulay was raised. It can be called the Antulay debate and 
not a no-confidence debate. Hon. Members of the Opposition were trying to find new 
reasons to clothe the same old thing arguments. I am not a lawyer but, I have had occasion 
to read something about the law—the last years compelled me to do so! I noticed that he 
who was defending a case that had no defence was the loudest in his arguments. This is 
what we have heard here. 


I am not going into the question of corruption. Those who were on the Treasury Benches 
in the years just before are hardly the people to throw stones. It is their good fortune that 
we do not want to be vindictive. We do not want to labour these issues. There is hardly a 
person against whom his own colleagues have not brought forward serious and cogent 
allegations. There are hardly a few whose reputations were not the subject of talk not only 
in Jndia but in far corners of the world, as for instance I was told when I went to London, 
in 1978. Now to pretend to be clothed in innocence neither rings true nor is it even funny. 


Motions of No-Confidence are brought to discuss serious questions. What were the 
issues raised here ? Have they not been discussed, in the last few days, not just in passing 
but for hours and hours and hours ? Did the Essential Services Maintenance Bill not go 
on into the early hours of the next day ? You, Sir, yourself corrected Shri Stephen informing 
him that the debate lasted for 22 hours or something like that. Was that an issue to bring 
up in a No-confidence Motion almost immediately afterwards? And it is the same with 
the other questions. Take the Antulay issue; has it not been discussed day after day ever 


since it came up? 


ee भर ak ak मं 2 hak 


Unemployment has been mentioned already**. Perhaps an hon. Member did speak of 
unemployment, saying that ‘I had not solved unemployment’. With great respect may I 
ask if he can tell me who has solved the unemployment problem and in which country 
except those which are grossly under-populated and have to import labour. If we had a 
population of only six million or so, we would certainly not have unemployment. But who 


* Replying to the debate on the Motion of No-Confidence in the Council of Ministers, LS. Deb., 17 September, 


1981, cc. 471-95. है 
** Replying to the remark of a Member : “What about unemployment ? 


349 


is not aware of our population problem ? As my friend, Mohsina Kidwai, pointed out, when 
.we were trying to convince people of the importance of the population problem and 
promoting programmes, the Opposition went all out to jettison the project. 


Two or three people seem to have coordinated their policy to say that we have given 
up our old policy and that we do not have the will. Sir, there is a party there—I am not 
taking the name because they will only make a noise and I know everybody is tired and 
wants to go home. 


a मेष ok me ie भर eK 


But there are parties who have made it their main strategy to spread falsehood. What 
nonsense was not spread about the Family Planning programme? How many people did 
they unearth who were forcibly sterilised? How many of them had to be helped ? You had 
said that you would give Rs. 5,000 or Rs. 10,000 ? How many people came forward ? 
Nothing was heard about it afterwards when your Government came in power. This is only 
one instance. 


What did the then Government do to our industry ? Some eloquent words were spoken 
about our not having faith in industrial labour and industrial labour not having faith in us. 
What happened during the Janata Party period ? Did they have faith in them ? Why then 
did they vote for us if they had faith in them ? And how many times—I should like to ask 
my hon. friend who initiated the debate, he said he had participated in no-confidence debates 
against the Janata Party—I have looked up the records. I am sorry to say that I did not 
find any evidence of this. I have looked up two instances of such motions in 1978. You 


may not have spoken for the Janata Party but you did not support the No-confidence motion. 
In fact.... 


ak ak ak OK af भर 


I could not come across it. If you have done so then I accept your word. But I was 
shown the records a short while ago... 


I कं eo मर me Heo 


This is something which can be easily checked. As I said, I have only looked at the 
records sitting here now. I do not know what happened before. But from what I read, it 
seems very clearly to me that the no-confidence motion was not supported. To the world 
outside and to the people of India it seemed as if both the communist parties, broadly 
speaking—they may or may not have voted, that is immaterial—sometimes they did speak 
against the Janata Party but broadly speaking in every important issue—they supported 
their policies...(/nterruptions). No, no, I do not accept it. 


मंः ae ae ae ak 2k ea 


As today they are also siding with the rightist elements; *you were siding with them 
then, you are siding with them now, and you are doing everything possible to weaken our 


* Responding to Shri Ramavatar Shastri’s remark, “CPI never supported the Janata Party...” 


effort, knowing that your feeble movements will strengthen the rightists. You may not want 
to be rightist; I am not concerned with whether you do or do not. But your actions brought 
in the Rightists before and today you are strengthening them. And I might tell you what 
an hon. Member has told me. I asked : Do you think that bringing in the Rightists is going 
to help the country ? He said : “No. It will disrupt ine country; it will destroy the country. 
But they won’t be able to touch us!” 


ak a 2 a af ek ज॑ 


I am not mentioning any names. (Jnterruptions) But I am not interested in what you 
think about me. All of you have poured the worst venom, not only on me now, but on my 
father whilst he was alive. Don’t think that I have forgotten all that nor have I forgotten 
what anybody said. Don’t tell me now what you said then, and what you have been saying 
since, and what you are saying now. 1 have read 1. I have ears to hear and eyes to see and 
if some of you don’t know your own history I am sorry. I was with my father. I know 
what he had to go through. (/nterruptions) Don’t make me go into that history because 
you will be sorry for it. Once before I said it and then you went on and on criticising me 
for going into such matters. He was called a stooge of the British. He was told by the 
Communist Party, a stooge of the British. (Interruptions). It is no use shaking your head. 
If you don’t know, keep quiet. I am not distorting facts. I am not used to distorting them. I 
have never in my life distorted anything knowingly. I may make a mistake if I don’t know 
but this is something I do know, because I was very close to the scene of action. 
(Interruptions) | am not bothered about what you think of me. We have had enough 
experience of these groupings, people hopping from party to party for a long time, not 
just in 1977. It has happened in different States. But in 1977, not only the Indian people, 
but the people of the world had the opportunity to see how devoted the various parties 
were to their names, to their ideologies and to their policies. Everything was swept aside 
by just one desire : ‘Let us throw Indira Gandhi out. Let us somehow get hold of the chair 
of power.’ Our party alone stood up against all the attacks, all the venom, all the hardship. 
We kept to our name, our ideals and our programmes (/nterruptions). 


We have been wedded to certain basic policies. We have not changed those. If we 
consider those policies irrelevant to the new India we may have to change something but 
I don’t think that is ever going to happen. Because, they are the basic guidelines which 
are relevant to the Indian condition, the Indian situation and Indian circumstances. But, as 
we go along, we do have to take some new steps. If something is torn, you have to repair 
it. And this is what we have to do now. It is not some little thing that was torn. The entire 
structure was dislocated, the Railways, the Industry and other programmes. They were all 
totally dislocated. 1 did not want to repeat all these things but one just has to have the 
correct picture. I have been taunted that I promised a Government that works. Do you 
imagine that if we were not working, we could have made such progress in coal and the 
other items. I have the figures here, I can read them. Those who discredited India’s name 
abroad, when they see that India once more counts, are the ones to tell us that our foreign 


policy 1s wrong. (Interruptions) 


351 


When people sleep, you can wake them up. You can try to tell them. But when they 

. deliberately shut their eyes, then it is not possible to convince them, of anything. Whether 

it be in the economic field, foreign policy or the overall domestic scene, Government has 

been acting with clarity, decisiveness and vigour. The world knows that today in India 

there is a Government, not a collection of disparate groups, some moving from party to 
party and ultimately landing themselves where they are...(/nterruptions). 


ek ak kak HO a 


In 1980, we inherited an economy which was heading towards total collapse. The 
decline in our G.N.P. in 1979-80 was 4.5 per cent and the percentage rise in the wholesale 
price was 23 per cent. Today, according to the impartial assessment of the World Bank 
our GNP has registered a growth rate of 7 to 8 per cent. The increase in the wholesale 
price index over the year has come down from 23 per cent in January 1980 to 15 per cent 
in January 1981 and to less than 9 per cent today. I entirely agree that unless this has an 
effect on the prices in the market there is not much use quoting figures to an ordinary 
man in the street. But this is the first step. Unless the wholesale prices come down you 
cannot bring the others down. The Janata Party did not even bring the rate of growth of 
inflation down, the rate of growth of inflation was going up during the Janata Party 
Government regime. At least this is one item that we have curbed. 


न anes ee ae! a sree oe a 0 00 xy 
epee ee: enc eR ingen 


ek मं sho a मं - 

As I said, when prices were sky-rocketing then, I heard no voice of criticism from the : 
other side. Only towards the end when the Janata Party was cracking did some people ee 
pick up the courage to speak and of course when the Party broke, they loudly spoke one 
against the other. But before that nobody mentioned these matters, although prices had - 
started increasing soon after they came to power. ce 


a 


en 
SR 


; 
८ 
५ 


There has been persistent misrepresentation about inflation in India. Nobody with any 
sense of responsibility can claim that there could be a zero rate of growth in inflation in 
present day world conditions. The average world rate of inflation—these figures have been 
quoted but I am going to repeat them—was 15 per cent during 1980. The average for Latin 
America was 56.6 per cent; for West Asia it was 57.6 per cent ; for Africa 17.6 per cent. 
Even for industrialised countries the average rate of inflation has been around 11.3. If we : 
have been able to contain the rate of inflation in India by a series of prudent steps to less j 
than 9 per cent, certainly it is an achievement for which we can take credit. Me 


Sees 


Now take our economic infrastructure. In 1980, we inherited an infrastructure, which 
was in shambles. We have now brought the key sectors—power, coal and railways—back 
to work. (Interruptions) who did accident, sabotage ? 


2:22226९४2४:४ 


RPL, 
mene 


When you take back people to work who had earlier committed sabotage, who had 
been dismissed for good reasons, do you expect that service to work properly ? 


a oe a ae मंद मर ae ai ak 


352 


No.* In everything you had good movement in the beginning. That was the momentum 
which we had left; just as we have had difficulty in picking it up because of the slide black 
after you left. If the country had not we would have gone much faster. 


In the Railways the Budget for the current financial year envisages a loading of 20 
million tonnes more than last year i.e. 215 million tonnes against 195 million tonnes. Out 
of the additional 10 million tonnes, nearly 12.5 million tonnes of additional traffic has 
already been loaded in the first five months of the current financial year. Therefore, we 
are confident that we will exceed the Budget estimates of 215 million tonnes and make it 
a year of the highest revenue originating loading ever achieved in Indian Railways. 


Now with regard to coal, it has registered an increase of 9 per cent over the same period 
last year. 


About railways, I think I did not give this figure before, the railways moved 15 per 
cent more freight during the first quarter of this year compared with the same per:od of 
last year; and power generation increased by 17 per cent compared with the same period 
last year. 


It is for the people to decide whether the Government is working or not. 


Now, take industrial production. We have brought the key industrial sectors from a 
stage of stupor to a dynamic growth track as will be evident from the fact about production. 
In the first quarter of the current year, there was 26 per cent increase in the production of 
saleable steel, 46 per cent in fertiliser and 20 per cent in cement. From a level of minus 
1.4 per cent growth rate in 1979-80, the growth rate for industrial sector today is 11.1 per 
cent plus. In the face of these facts, again it is for the people to decide. 


We are tightening up the public sector. Its professional management is being improved. 
We have placed the highest stress on maximizing internal production of oil. As you know, 
the Petroleum Minister has just announced that we have succeeded in cutting down our 
oil imports by Rs. 1,000 crores. This is not an ordinary achievement. 


Many people have referred to the fact that less man-days have been lost this year; that 
is also an achievement. That is not a bad thing. Still, we had to have the Essential Services 
(Maintenance) Bill, not because, as somebody has tried to incite the workers by saying 
that we don’t have faith in them. (Jnterruptions) Well, may be that in your view. I am 
giving my view. An attempt—very deliberate, soft spoken attempt was made. The intention 
was to provoke certain people—to provoke workers into feeling that we are not interested 
in them, farmers into feeling that we are not interested in them, and also the Sikh 
community—which has so bravely fought for India’s freedom; on them rests much of the 
burden of industry as well as agriculture, nor do we have any doubts whatever about their 
loyalty or their efficiency. We have no doubt whatever about the patriotism of our workers. 


* Replying to Prof. Madhu Dandavate’s observations, ‘When those who were dismissed even in 1974 strixe were 
taken back; in the first year I projected a surplus of Rs. 65 crore; and it had gone to Rs. 124 crores. Please go 


tiieugh that.” 


353 


I do agree that in times of crisis, they have stood by us. Then what are we afraid of? We 
are afraid that there are enough people wanting to mislead them for political purposes— 
- not for any gain to the workers themselves. And that is what I am trying to answer, if you 
will listen patiently. 


During the recent strike in Defence Production installations we not only fell back in 
our production at a time when we desperately needed to increase production, but we lost 
Rs. 137 crores. This is the problem. The man-days lost may have been fewer in other areas, 
but in certain key areas, there was a situation which could cause great harm should any 
other type of crisis develop—the man-days lost in Defence production were 36.20 lakhs— 
knowing how important defence works are for our country. 


Indian Airlines, in the year 1980-81 made a profit of Rs. 248 crores. Air India not only 
covered up their losses, but during the first three months of 1981-82 made a profit of Rs. 
1.98 crores. 


Even in agriculture, in spite of many uncertainties of the monsoon, we hope to have a 
comfortable year. It is as an insurance against uncertainties of rain that we decided it was 
better to import grain at a time when it was easily available, rather than later being held to 
ransom by unscrupulous people. 


It was interesting to see that having found no other valid point, several Members of 
the Opposition spoke of the rain showers to reinforce their arguments. I should like to 
know how many of you have been able to attract rain in any place where you have gone ? 


The public distribution system which had been completely disrupted, has been enlarged 
and improved; but I shall be the first to admit that it is by no means sausfactory and until 
it is strengthened and made more effective, neither our programmes nor goods will be able 
to reach every section of the people as they should. That is why all our efforts are towards 
this end. 


Our emphasis had been on improving the infrastructure because we felt that, that was 
basic for any other programme. It is not true to say that we are not concerned about 
unemployment; we are; but you cannot remove unemployment by wishing it away. We 
have concentrated on what we consider to be the basis and the foundation which is the 
infrastructure. That has improved and 1 is improving and it will improve. If all things go 
well and with the efforts that we are putting in, once the infrastructure is stabilised, as it is 
being done, it will be a sort of jumping of ground for many other programmes. It is only 
when you increase production that you can provide greater employment in industries. Each 
activity is linked; industry is linked with agriculture and agriculture is linked with industrial 
production. 


Several people had spoken about our loan from the IMF. They also raised this point 
earlier with the Finance Minister. I was rather surprised to hear some of the arguments 
used and long quotations from the Birla Institute. No country today can keep away from 
inter-dependence. Our point is not that there should not be inter-dependence, but that inter- 
dependence must rest on independence. This is the message which India is taking all over 
the world and which we are trying to implement here in our country. But when we found 
the economy in the state that it was, it was absolutely necessary that, with the huge 


354 


ee ५ 


नमी बाण म ४ ret वय्क बी ८०११० ०१ ०००१०००१०:०2०१०१० का व ९०००००५९०९५१०९५ 
mannan ८:22 शव एक १७७० २०० Aree 
ones s 


megane trea Seis 
3 aS Soe SERRA OMRON 720 


ae 
८ ra’ 


water 

ae y 
2300: 
aes 


mr 
>. 
ate 


220202:5 


५५ 
ron 


४2222: x 
20089 । 


iy 
. 

न 

* 

न \ Fe 
“ee 
cay 
: 
cs 
ay 
heat 
a 
al 
n 
". St 
as 
eae 
Ne 
vy 
at 
“tie, 
. % bs 
ae 
te 

५ 


ee 
es 
ne 


ot ee ete Ss ae a. 
Cn TR REG २० MARRERO BEC ESS 


4000 हट 


budgetary deficit which we never had before—it was the gift of the Janata Party—we should 
find funds. Either we do nothing or if we want to go ahead with our big plan, we must 
raise the resources. And as the Finance Minister had assured the House, I would also like 
to add my voice to say that there is no question whatsoever of giving in to any condition 
which can be against our declared policy, accepted by Parliament or against our national 
interest; there is absolutely no question. (/nterruptions). This we have definitely told to 
the Monetary Fund and to all else who have approached us on this matter. Because we 
feel that now conditions for development are favourable if only we can get this initial help 
that we have gone in for a big plan and for the IMF loan. 


Of the insinuations, some are ideological but most are ill-informed and irrelevant. This 
is not the first time that we have borrowed from abroad, but at no time was our economy 
intrinsically stronger or our own negotiating position better than it 1s now. 


Every country in the world knows that my Government is not one that can be 
pressurised or pushed round politically, economically and militarily. So far as the domestic 
scene is concerned, no one can accuse me of complacency. We are not at all complacent. 
We see the dangers of the situation and we have not lowered our guard. Weaknesses and 
dangers do abound and we must fight them, but, at the same time, we must not belittle 
our own strength. The danger of communalism is persistent and so long there are extremists 
and fanatics, whether they are Hindus, Muslims, Sikhs, Christians or any other, we simply 
Cannot rest; we must try and change the atmosphere in the country. This is not merely a 
question of law and order or of punishing people; what was needed is an atmosphere of 
brotherhood. Tolerance has to spread. There is now a new phenomenon to which my 
attention was drawn in Bihar Sharief. The people felt that the trouble there was politically 
motivated. Those who met me, were not my party people. I had gone at hardly a moments 
notice and people from all sections were there. They were doing different work, picking 
up dead bodies or whatever; and this was their spontaneous comment to me. (/nterruptions). 


tNow please keep quiet; enough has been done. 


The Jamshedpur Inquiry report clearly brings out the kind of evil doers that are at work; 
and you know that it is partly because I have fought against it all my life, not from today 
but even before independence. During the independence struggle and afterwards much of 
this attack and venom has been poured upon me by them and others. This, to me is the 
Jan Sangh. You can change the name a million times, but it will remain. Jan Sangh. Nothing 
can be more insulting to our great leader Mahatma Gandhi than to say that the Jan Sangh 
is adopting his ideology. Nothing can be more insulting to him or to India for that matter. 
Do they take us for fools? People have only to read the speeches of their earlier leaders of 
the RSS like Golwalkar, what did they speak about Mahatma Gandhi and Mahatma 
Gandhi’s ideas and policies. 


mK ok > ai fe ae a IK a 


1 Translated from Hindi. 


355 


I talk with deep conviction and with very deep anguish. It 1s not a nice thing for me to 
say this that, anybody, in this country should hold such views about a person like Mahatma 
,Gandhi. (Interruptions) 


ae ae ae we ake a ae ae और 


They think that we are the only people who should be tolerant and should listen to all 
kinds of abuse, character assassination and so on. They can’t listen to even one word. 
Talking about character assassination—I forget who it was, an hon. Member opposite Shri 
Dandavate, I think, who said that he 1s not interested, that he was least interested in character 
assassination. But he sat very quiet while it was being indulged in by all of you opposite 
during those years. 


I do not want to go into the cases against me. But one case I do want to mention. I 
wonder whether you know about it. I had to go all the way to Imphal, Manipur on a non- 
bailable warrant. Do you know what the charge was ?—I was supposed to be an abettor 
to a person who had stolen two chickens and six eggs? This was the high esteem in which 
the Janata Party held character and democracy. And the person in charge was the Judge, 
he was the Prosecutor, he was the persecutor, he was the Government Advocate-General 
of Manipur and the Chairman of the Commission as well! 


Now, I have no hesitation in saying that the communalists are worse than almost any 
other threat we have and also casteism. Both are two sides of the same coin and this is the 
most reprehensible of all antu-national elements. We can easily meet external threats. But 
communalists, as I have said many times, are like white ants who eat up the wood or the 
grain from within. And the RSS is not alone in this. It has good company, or bad company 
in communalists of different hues and denomination. I don’t say there are communalists 
in only one religion; they are there in all religions and anybody who is fanatical in that 
way, feeds the fires of fanaticism in the other extremists’ group. Therefore, we have to be 
warned against them all equally. 


Ever since the present Government assumed office, it has accorded high priority to ~ 
the maintenance of law and order, which 1s essential to ensure an orderly life to the 
community. We have addressed ourselves with earnestness to this primary task and as a 
result of concerted efforts, the situation has shown improvement in spite of attempts by 
certain elements, by certain political parties, to organise, agitations on every conceivable 
issue Or non-issue. In the past few months, there has been a perceptible fall in the incidence 
of violence, murders and intimidation. Of course, crime has not stopped. There are incidents 
of organised thefts and robbery in certain areas. But I think we can say that as a whole the 
law and order machinery has been successful in curbing the activities of anti-social 
elements. (/nterruptions). When the Janata Party came in, these people also—the anti-social 
elements, smugglers and all were released. It is not we who released them. It is the Janata 
Party who released them. Some of these anti-social elements were actually honoured at 
receptions and garlanded; pictures appeared in the newspapers. Now to suddenly say, when 
they have been let loose that we capture them all, is not realistic. Somebody mentioned 
Galadhar’s name. It might interest the hon. Member to know that it was in 1977 that these 
people were removed from the list of suspects. 


मंध्मंप मं ai 2c 2 ae भर 


356 


Offences against women are really a shame on all of us. I am told that they are showing 
a decrease and that the law and machinery is vigilant. But of course they still are occurring 
unfortunately. With the amendment of the Criminal Procedure Code, IPC and the Evidence 
Act, it is hoped that these will be under further control. This 1s an area in which public 
Opinion is very important and the opinion of the neighbours. 


Our friends opposite get very excited. They can talk about any State they like, but if 
we mentioned West Bengal or Kerala, all of them get up. I am not going to say anything 
more except, can you honestly say that the law and order situation in Kerala is all right? 
Our people are being killed, but so many as people of other parties. 


ak a 2k ake ok a 2k 


I am glad that you have such deep knowledge, but fortunately or unfortunately, not all 
of itis correct. *Just because your leaders repeat something in public, 1t does become true. 
But no one can deny, whether it is a foreigner or an Indian, who has been to Kerala, the 
large number of political murders. Never in any part of India have so many political murders 
taken place, not on this scale. (/nterruptions). 


There is no truth in the allegation that I want to topple Governments. Either it is a 
guilty feeling or they want to have it! I do not want to topple any Government and my 
going to the States has been welcomed by the Chief Ministers, where I have su far been, 
because it enables us to get a better understanding of the blocs or obstacles in the 
implementation of various accepted programmes, specially programmes which have to do 
with our plan. I go with central officials or they go earlier and sometimes stay on later, 
and then follow up these matters and try and help the States in whatever way they can. 


There seems to be a lot of rhetoric on moral values and code of ethics. And the question 
asked was whether my name was used in Shn Antulay’s Trust. I saw no reason for being 
in the House when it was addressed to the Finance Minister. When a question was asked 
to me in Bhubneswar, I did not hesitate, I answered it at once. Had they followed up with 
other questions, I would have answered those questions. I have answered all questions. 
When Mr. Antulay told me about this Trust—Shn Kaushal has read out its objects—I 
thought they were good objects. And I agreed that 1t was a good idea to help artists. When 
I was Minister for Information in 1965, many artists came to me with some such demand. 
So, when Shri Antulay told me that the Trust was going to help young artists, I thought it 
a good idea. In that sense I did give my blessings. When he asked for my name, I advised 
him not to use it not because the objective was bad or the Trust was bad but because I do 
not like to give permission for my name whether it is a Trust, hospital or any other 
institution. There are many such requests by Chief Ministers and other 


kak he aK ak ei ak 


* Responding to Shri M.M. Lawrence’s remark, “From 1959 onwards we know what happened.” 


357 


I have a single-minded purpose in life and I shall proceed towards it. And until my 
_last breath I will be going towards it regardless of what others may say. I am not interested 
whether we have this Government or that Government or who is in the chair. I kept working 
when I was out of power. I kept working when every attempt was made to finish me off. I 
did not deviate from my goal. I am not interested in whether I lose or gain. And those of 
us in the Congress Party who have gone through the crucible of Gandhian discipline are 
in no need of lectures on ethics and codes of conduct from the self-professed neoconverts 
to Gandhian principles. I am almost tempted to quote a biblical saying ‘Physician, heal 
thyself’. However, I do wish the House and the nation to know that my Government and 
my party will stand for the highest principles of conduct in public life and ensure that 
those principles and rectitude are not only followed by all those who are privileged to 
exercise power but also ensure that they seem to be followed (/nterruptions). In Garhwal 
I have seen with my own eyes who has been beating up whom, who has been bashing up 
whose cars. As 1 have said earlier, my own staff was threatened. 


aK 3 मं aK 2c मर a aie और 


I have been bashed up by your people a number of ttmes. Who the people were, I do 
not know. But there were attacks on me during those three years, attacks on my life in 
different parts of India (Interruptions). We have not indulged in such attacks (Interruptions). 


Now, unfortunately, provincialism was also given a push. And now there is an attempt 
to stir up Centre-State antagonism. We have an extra-ordinary situation in which a State 
Government says, we do not accept the plan but we will take its help. 


My visits to the States have been deliberately misinterpreted. Their purpose as I said 
was simply to bring about better understanding and coordination in regard to development 
programmes that involve the Central and State Governments. They are not inspection tours. 
We were not there to see how the State is doing its work. They were problem-solving 
visits and in a number of places the problems were solved and the situation improved almost ~ 
immediately. It certainly would be a sad day if the Prime Minister of India cannot take 
interest in the development programmes all over the country. 


The danger to peace comes not only from casteism and communalism but also from 
frustrated people and elements who somehow want to create trouble and give Government 
a bad name. As I said earlier, those who throw stones should not be surprised if some 
stones are thrown at them. Parties whose record while in office and conduct before, after 
or during, has been far from commendable are now trying to pick holes in our work. I do 
not say all of us are angels. No party consists only of angels. We have consistently tried, 
where we found wrong-doing, to correct it. I can certainly say that our party is in a far 
better shape as a party than any of those, (/nterruptions)... but that is your problem, not 
mine. 


So far as foreign policy is concerned, this is a time of exceptional difficulty, and I am 
sorry that you were not interested enough to have the debate on foreign policy today. It 
just shows that you are not interested enough. 


eh कं weak के 


358 


Tomorrow it may or may not come*. Nobody knows what you will rake up before 
this. 


Shri Vajpayee and some of his friends are very fond of saying that I am trying to rake 
up the foreign issue in order to hide some thing here. I have never wanted to hide anything. 
The advice my father gave me in my very early childhood was that everything should be 
open, and that is how I have always lived. Therefore, when I see a situation, I speak up 
about it, and that is why we sometimes get into trouble, because there are lots of people 
who do not like our type of frank speaking. 


There is no doubt that dangers have increased. This is acknowledged, by leaders all 
over the world. It 1s even more so in our immediate neighbourhood, though no fault of 
ours, but nevertheless the danger is there, and we have to prepare ourselves. 


You have probably seen this very morning the newspapers have reported that a final 
decision has been taken to accelerate the supply of F-16 to our neighbour. As I said before, 
it is not a question of whether a particular country should have more or less, but it is the 
whole attitude behind this and the tension which it is bound to cause, which it has already 
caused, by upsetting the balance which enjoins on us to be very careful and to see that the 
tranquility of our area, which is disturbed, should be somehow restored. 


Justifying the acquisition of sophisticated equipment which as I have earlier pointed 
out is a generation ahead of what we have, our neighbour has made unjustified charges of 
arms build-up by us. In the same statement they have also mentioned the Simla Agreement. 
We have been acting in the Simla spirit and we would welcome a similar policy on the 
part of Pakistan. But their actions do not seem to correspond to the concept of peaceful, 
bilateral discussion and eschewal of thoughts or policies of military solutions, nor do we 
think that the sophisticated weaponry which they are acquiring is compatible with the Simla 
spirit. Also, they lose no occasion to rake up bilateral matters. It was one of the first 
conditions of the Simla Agreement that such matters should be left for us to talk between 
ourselves. This is not the occasion to go deeper into a review of the foreign scene. I have 
referred to it because Parliament will adjourn very shortly and I thought I should put my 
anxiety before you. 


We all know the extreme seriousness and the delicacy of the international situation. | 
do not know whether the Opposition does not realise it, or whether it just thinks that making 
trouble is more important—I am not talking about the House, I am talking of what often 
happens outside. By all this you do not weaken the Government if that is what you hope 
to do. But you do try to create an atmosphere of frustration, of despair. This is the most 
weakening thing that can happen to any community or any boundary. If we take away 
hope from man—at no time have I said that I personally have been able to get better 
production. In every single speech I have emphasised that it is the farmers of India, who 
were willing to adopt new ideas, adopt new methods, were able to increase their production 
and to make us self-reliant. It is the industrial worker of India who has helped by his sweat 


* Replying to a Member's remark, ‘Tomorrow we will have it.” 


359 


and labour to increase our production and to help us to diversify our industry. At no time 
have we said that we have done this. But we have helped them with our policy, we have 

- helped them by giving direction and above all we have helped by giving them hope. This 
is what you are trying to take away from them. This is where we all quarrel and there are 
bound to be quarrels, whether it is democracy or even if it is not a democratic system, 
wherever there are human beings there are quarrels and differences. But there are occasions 
when on some issues we should try and stand as one. Of course, in war time everybody 
says, “We are with you, and so on’, but in peace time also we have to see that hope is 
maintained, the people should never feel that this country has no future. It has got a bright 
future, and we shall go towards it step by step. By talking in anger, in envy or in desperation 
some Opposition spokesmen are only giving comfort to the opponents of the country who 
९0 away to report in their papers and in other ways that India 1s falling to pieces. But I 
know that the greater part of the House and the country will stay solidly with us. 


Now, one small point I want to make, which is on leadership. | am quite distressed 
that my side keeps on raising this issue of Kshetriya Gramin Bank, Kanpur. People raise 
it only because we are taunted by the other side. When they see that their leader is under 
attack, they all feel that they must rush to rescue her, but they should know very well by 
now that I am fully capable of looking after myself. 


ae ae a 2 afc मंद ae 24 मर 


What I am trying to say 1s that although in the Congress Party there has always been a 
recognised leader, this does not mean that the party collapses without that leader. When 
one leader has gone, another has always come to take his place in a peaceful domocratic 
manner. Whether the leader is strong or not is important, but what is more important is 
that the party should be solid in spite of our quarrels. We do not have the strict discipline 
which some parties have, whether it is on this side or on that side. We allow our people to 
talk. That is our weakness, it 1s also our strength. But our party will remain strong, Indira - 
Gandhi or no Indira Gandhi. The Congress Party is a party which is giving the programmes 
and policies, the implementation of which will lead this country forward. We do not think 
that we can solve all problems; nobody has solved them in one or two generations. All we 
can hope is to take the country forward in the right direction and to see that it 18 in good 
hands who can take it further ahead. 


So, I appeal to all the hon. Members here to defeat this Motion of No-confidence, 
bearing in mind the critical days ahead on all fronts and to rise to ovcasion to preserve 
our democracy, our secularism, our national unity and to scrupulously guard against falling 
a prey to the forces of destabilisation within or without. 


Our Basic Objective — Self-Reliance“ 


Mr. Speaker, Sir, many people from our side have rightly said that this question of 
bringing a no-confidence motion has become a routine matter, but they have failed to follow 
it up by saying that every time it is we who come up on top, not because of numbers but 
because of the effectiveness of the replies given to the points made by the Opposition. No 
new point has been raised in today’s debate that has not been discussed in this very Session 
and which has not been replied to during question hour and on other occasions time and 
again. Therefore, what was the point of raising them all over again. That point was answered 
by the last speaker from the Opposition Benches. It is personal animosity. He brought 
personal animosity into the debate, he tried to bring my family into it, even my small grand- 
children. Is this Parliamentary democracy? (/nterruptions) Does it show decency? This 
was his major and most-loudly-made point. This shows what his interest lies in. Earlier 
and before that, as my hon. colleague, Mr. Venkataraman aptly pointed out, when very 
serious matters were being debated in the House, the hon. Opposition leaders and Members 
did not consider it worth their while, did not consider those matter important enough for 
them to be present in the House, and now suddenly they see them as important enough to 
censure the Government on. We can withstand their censure, we have faced their censure, 
we have stood the censure of the world on many important matters. We have stood as I 
said in America and everywhere I have gone and as I shall continue to state, we have stood 
upright in spite of our opponents or what Opposition Members say. It would have been 
more appropriate if the hon. Members had moved a vote of no-confidence in themselves. 
(Interruptions) For once at least they would have got the credit of recognising the realities 
of the situation. 


I do not think that the facts of their criticism about one another are hidden from us on 
this side or the opposite side or from the world at large. The last Member who spoke belongs 
to the real, 450 Lok Dal, the others are nakali ones; and yet here they have got together! 
Those who have been the very perpetrators of such emotions accuse us of casteism and 
communalism, not just from today but since before independence. Then there are those 
who consider themselves progressive. What are they doing? They are very proudly saying, 
‘‘We do not associate ourselves with such people”. What are you doing on this occasion? 
What have you done in the elections, I ask you? You have not stood alone. You have 
supported reactionary elements outside and inside the House on every possible occasion. 
(Interruptions). 


* Replying to the debate on the Motion of No-Confidence in the Council of Ministers, LS. Deb., 16 August, 1982, 
cc. 206-21. 


361 


A respected and a known Marxist leader has said, we shall support the BJP, ‘“We shall 
accept the support of the BJP, if this defeats Indira Gandhi’. This was printed in all the 
-newspapers. (Interruptions). Do not make a noise here 


a ae af ae ok मर ae He ak 


You have their version here also.* Therefore, they consider the BJP and the RSS as 
good allies. It is not only 1 who am saying this. Your member himself has just admitted 
it—the CPM membet...... (Interruptions) I am not yielding to you. Please sit down. 


They are slinging mud against one another. The various groups, the BJP, the various 
segments of the LDs, the CPI-M, and the DSP, all these have throughout been indulging 
in mudslinging. This does not prevent them from joining hands to try to weaken the 
Government—not that they can replace it. They have no positive programme. They have 
no positive policy. What is the use of speaking of ideology? If one Opposition party has a 
programme, the other has a diametrically opposed one and the third person goes in yet 
another direction. That 1s not called a programme. It just means destruction of the solidarity 
of our people. It means the destruction of the unity of our country. That is what. you are 
out to do. You may refute it until you are blue in the face, but you cannot convince anybody. 
This fact the world has recognised. I happen to be in touch with world leaders, with the 
leaders of the countries which some Members opposite support and the countries which 
the rest of them support. I happen to know what they think of India...... (dnterruptions) 


Today every country in the world is impressed by our basic policies and the manner 
in which we are implementing them. Every country, I repeat, from the developing world, 
the developed world, the Communist world and the capitalist world. There must be 
something good in what we are doing, that such very diverse elements have come to praise 
us, personally by talking or writing to me... 


ae OK a ae और a 2c a 


Why have they not done it to you**? Why have they not done it to other people? You 
have only to hear what was said in the non-aligned movement during the Janta Party or 
Lok Dal Government. 


2 2k ak मं मै मं Hot भर 


You have now the temerity to suggest and alleged that we are compromising ourselves 
on self-reliance. You have the temerity to say this to Indira Gandhi?.... when I have stood 
for the honour of the country—(Jnterruptions) yes, what is the use of saying ‘Oh?’—Yes, 
I am..... (Interruptions) 


I am destroying it?*** ......... (Interruptions) The world knows when India’s strength 
has been built, the world knows when India’s honour has been upheld. It is not a question 


* Replying to Shri Satyasadhan Chakraborty’s remark, ‘It was against authoritarianism and we shall fight it.” 
** Asking Prof. Madhu Dandavate who said, “Diplomacy demands it.” 
*** Responding to Shri Harikesh Bahadur’s remark, ‘““You are destroying”. 


of shouting in this House, whether our side does it or your side does it. The world knows 
it and the world has acknowledged it. The fact is that they have acknowledged some 
Members who accuse me, are those who have strongly opposed the policies of the Congress 
and of Jawaharlal Nehru to build up our own economic strength, to have economic planning 
and to improve our industry and agriculture. 


There are many who have constantly propagated that it is better for us to belong to 
one bloc or another. Today they seem to have changed. I am sorry to say I find it most 
difficult to believe in them when I know how long they have held other views. 


Self-reliance has been, is and will always remain our basic objective. Especially this 
month of August brings back heroic memories of the Quit India Movement. There were 
some even then who did not want the country to stand for Independence but were serving 
the cause of the colonial masters. There are some who are sitting opposite who even when 
we became independent, said that we were stooges of the Bntish. Don’t make me repeat 
all this because it 1s all down in black and white. 


Today, our technology has gained immense strength. For its own good, we have to go 
in for more advanced technology in some fields. Otherwise, we shall be struck with obsolete 
methods in a world that is fast changing and fast moving. We are not throwing open our 
entire economy to the foreign investment but only those segments which will increase our 
expertise and bring the sophisticated knowhow of which we are in need. 


A great deal has been said about Tarapur. Now, I think an adequate reply was given. 
However, I should like to clarify once more that during the discussion with the U.S. 
Delegation in India and in U.S.A. between our officials, we made our position amply clear 
and also in other forums regarding—(a) the right to reprocess without further consultation 
and (b) on the expiry of the agreement, and all rights and obligations arising out of this in 
1993. Both sides agreed that, in spite of the differences of opinion on these two issues, 
arrangements for continued supply of enriched uranium to India within the framework of 
the 1963 Agreement could be made and, therefore 1t was decided to accept the offer of 
supplies through France. Because, earlier there was uncertainty in the supply of fuel by 
the U.S.A., we had to think of some alternative method. Development work was carried 
out and the use of MOX as an alternative fuel was found feasible. The work on this 
technological achievement will be continued. I have stated this in this House on an earlier 
occasion also. I could read a much longer note but I do not want to take the time of the 
House. But, I repeat that the use of MOX in the future for the Tarapur Atomic Power Station 
is not precluded. 


Sir, much has been said about the Bihar Press Bill. I am not going into the matter except 
to reiterate that we stand committed to a free Press. But, as the Press Commission has 
observed, the Press has to be not only free but responsible—responsible not to the 
Governments but to the consequences of whatever they write or publish. As has been said, 
in fact, somebody has sent me a quotation, “nobody is entitled to use his freedom of speech 
and expression to injure another’s reputation” (Interruptions) I have no doubt that the senior 
professionals in the Press itself will not approve of the untruth or obscenity that are 


363 


sometimes indulged in by the less responsible sections of the Press. How should this be 
dealt with is a matter which can be discussed and which can be gone into. But, as has 
“been pointed out, this is nct a new idea. A very similar act was passed earlier by two States. 
So far as I remember, I did not hear much noise about it, either here or outside, from those 
who were 1n power then. 


Sir, a lot of people have made much about the elections. I have not got all the figures 
about the last elections. But, I can say that in Haryana, in 1997, we had 17.15 per cent of 
the votes; in the Lok Sabha elections in 1980, we had 35 per cent and, in the Assembly 
Elections in 1982, we had 38 per cent. 


If the weaker sections which are the vast majority of the population did not support 
us, how is it that we were able to get such a majority? Was it by the support of the big 
houses that we are two-thirds of us here? (/nterruptions) Such a remark, Sir, 18 an insult 
not to me or to any of us, but it 1s an insult to the electorate of India and the many millions 
of people who voted. 


oe a aie ae a गंध मर 


Our differences with him* are of long standing; they are basic. I do not want to bring 
them out in the open. But one of the questions which he used to raise with me during my 
earlier regime, when I was Prime Minister and he the Chief Minister of UP, was that we 
should close down the mills, specially the textile mills. It is for the House to consider 
whether that policy is viable in any modern country. I myself put the question to him : 
“What are we going to do with all the industnal workers, who will be dislodged”? He 
said, “you will have to get them to make handloom material.”” Hon’ ble Members can also 
consider if that is a possibility? Will that supply enough cloth at reasonable prices and in 
time to the huge population of India? I am mentioning only one item to show the trend of 
Chaudhun Sahib’s thinking on many such matters. 


He also gave certain statistics. I do not blame him for using them very selectively, 
meant only to serve his own thesis. He said nothing at all about the overall increase in 
grain output, increase in sugar and milk products. I can give figures of the record food 
production; in 1981-82, it was 132 million tonnes, oilseeds in 1981-82—115 lakh tonnes; 
sugarcane 180 million tonnes, milk production—33 million tonnes as against 17 million 
tonnes in 1951. I could have given many other statistics. I am cutting short the list. There 
are other items with which the smaller man is concerned, that is the pioduction of eggs, 
fish etc. In all these production has augmented tremendously. And obviously, the gain will 
go to private persons, these are not State ventures; but of small farmers and sometimes 
even the landless people. 


There was also talk about poverty line. I should like to make clear that I have never 
said that we have conquered poverty or eliminated poverty. On the contrary, I have said 
that there is poverty, and that in my generation, we shall not be able to remove it. I have 
made that very clear, as long back as when I came to power in 1966. It is an enormously 


* Chaudburi Charan Singh 


are 


big problem. What I have said is that the face of poverty is changing. What I have said is, 
and it is true, that many millions of people have been raised above what was considered 
the poverty line earlier on. And that line is a shifting line. At that ime what was considered 
luxuries by the people, are today necessities, we do not blame them; we agree with them. 


At the same time, the question of population increase must also be taken into 
consideration. Life expectancy has gone up. I am sorry, I do not agree with Shri Chavan’s 
theory although I know that the Congress itself has used the phrase. The rich are richer, I 
agree but the poor are not poorer. They are poorer by contrast, they are poorer because 
they are more conscious of poverty, but they are not poorer in the sense that I with my 
own eyes have seen, at the time of independence, that I with my own eyes have seen, 
even when I became Prime Minister in 1966. I do not live in a village; I do not know 
whether Chaudhuri Charan Singh himself lives in one. However, since I was a small child, 
villagers have been coming to my home not in hundreds, but in thousands and in lakhs. 
Whether in Anand Bhawan, Allahabad, in Teen Murti House, 1, Safdarjung Road or in 
12, Willingdon Crescent, the house and the compound have been full of villagers from all 
parts of the country not always from my part, not always those who sympathise with me. 
Perhaps the hon. Members would be interested to know that at the tme when Chaudhury 
Charan Singh had his Kisan Rally in Delhi a large number of farmers turned up at my 
house. They told me : “We have come for the Kisan Rally’ and one of the inducements 
given to some of them was that ‘you will have Indira Gandhi’s darshan, when you come 
to Delhi. (Interruptions). 


While we are on this subject and because Shri and Shrimati Dandavate are both present, 
I can bring to the notice of this House an incident which took place only a few days ago. 
Prof. Madhu Dandavate was a Minister in the Janata Party Government, but at that time 
he was not bothered about the people of Belgaum or about the border issue. Now, he and 
Mrs. Dandavate brought quite a crowd said to be from Belgaum. What was he doing when 
he was a Minister for two and a half years? “We have confidence in you only. You will 
resolve this question”. They said, not behind Prof. Dandavate’s back but वा front of them. 
He also used similar words! 


a मंद ak took ak ak oe ae 


Sir, so far as the poverty line is concerned, in absolute terms the number of people 
below the poverty line has increased because there has been 90 per cent increase in 
population. However, in percentage terms the number has come down. It has declined from 
51.49 per cent in 1972-73 to 48.13 per cent in 1977, and it is constantly declining. I am 
told that by this completion of the Sixth Five-Year Plan, we will be able to take some 
millions of people, over 10 crores perhaps above the poverty line. 


So far as drinking water 1s concerned, the target under the 20-point programme is to 
cover all problem villages by 1985. 6,266 problem villages have been covered in the first 
quarter of 1982. This represents 20.2 per cent of the annual target. We hope to achieve the 
target by 1985. 


365 


Somebody also accused us of not dealing with this problem seriously. It is a sad 
commentary, but in many villages, in fact, in most villages, people seem to prefer to have 
“a big unit or project rather than something which is so essential as drinking water or a 
primary school. I myself have had discussions sometimes.with villagers trying to persuade 
them about urgent priority items, but they seem to prefer to have a prestigious project. So, 
we have to fight for this also. 


Then there are land reforms. I don’t want to go into the figures, but perhaps you know- 
this is as true of West Bengal as of other places—how many stay orders there are and cases 
that are stuck in the courts. This is true not only of land reforms, but of many other 
programmes which concern the poorest and the weaker sections. In this we are helpless. 
Unless we can all sit together and find some way, we cannot do anything. 


ah He मे aK ak और ak ae ok 


I do not have the full figures here of the conviction of the accused but so far as the 
atrocities on the Scheduled Castes are concerned,—I speak subject to correction because I 
am not sure whether all these towns are in Bihar, Belchi, Pipra and Bishenpur, in six places— 
there have been two death sentences and 135 life sentences and in other States also there 
have been some. I do not have all the figures with me. 


ek ak or. मं: मर ak 


Now, with regard to employment, I have spoken on this matter earlier also. The figures 
that are on our registers are not always accurate. Many people who are unemployed do 
not register, many who are employed do register either to get a better job or to get a job in 
another part of the country. I have myself seen some of these figures. In spite of this, the 
rate of increase has declined from 16 per cent in 1978 to 13 per cent in 1979 and 1980 
and has further declined to 10 per cent in 1981. By and large, about 50 per cent of the job 
seekers belong to the educated category. But even here, the rate of increase of 
unemployment has shown a downward trend. 1 should like to point out, as I had done 
before, that a lasting solution to the problem of unemployment can only depend on the 
level and rate of growth of the economy and that is why we lay so much stress on increasing 
production and on development programmes. That is the only way in which a long term 
solution can be found. We have got short term schemes; some of them are successful, some, 
I am sorry to say, are not succeeding. But the only way is really to get on with development 
and for hon. Members opposite not to try to obstruct us in that importent task. 


ae ak a ek मं a a ak 


The other point to which my attention has been drawn is that the proper index of our 
effort is the rate at which the total national income at constant prices has increased. India’s 
GNP at constant prices has nearly trebled in the 30 years since we have started our 
economic planning; our domestic product grew up by an average of 3.7 per cent during 
the years 1970 to 1978 and this performance was better than the majority of the advanced 
countries even. 


OSU ee aan nes are 


Sir, we believe in and are fully committed to the democratic system. However, I must 
confess that I have some reservations about the present functioning of Parliament. 
Chaudhary Charan Singh himself has spoken of the lengthening of the ‘Zero Hour’ and 
earlier 1 quoted my honourable colleagues, as to how little interest is shown in serious 
subjects and how much time goes on other subjects repeated over and over again. They 
may be important subjects; but when they have been replied to and you reiterate them, 
that does not lead to any solution. (/nterruptions) 


Mention also was made about blindings in Bhagalpur. That has been very barbarous 
and inhuman. 41 can hardly find words to describe the horror of it. But I should like to 
remind you that it started in the Janata Party period and it also took place in the Marxists’ 
time in West Bengal, which by the way, was loudly denied from the opposite side when 
the fact was first made known. Although later it was admitted by the West Bengal 
Government. 


Ok aK 2p 2k मं ak a a 


It was raised, that is why, I am speaking of it*. Otherwise, I would not have talked of 
the subject. 


Since we were on the question of this raising of a hue and cry in the House I might 
say that the economic figures ragarding West Bengal which we gave were loudly protested 
and denied by the Marxist Party during the elections. After the elections, they admitted 
that they had been misled and that the figures that we had quoted were correct. 


af 2 ak Hk a af 2 2k 


It is refreshing but not really believeable that the Bharatiya Janata Party, the Jana Sangh, 
the RSS-whatever name you want to give it I consider them to be one and the same—pretend 
to take a different stance. With all humility I say that these are just tactics. There is no 
reality in this difference of opinion between the BJP and the RSS. That they have suddenly 
come to believe in the concept of self-reliance or of economic planning or of non-alignment, 
I find it very difficult to believe. What did they do? What steps did they take towards self- 
reliance, towards socialism when they were in power? Most of the Members opposite-I 
am sorry to say—become pastmasters in destructive tactics for their own ends. At that time 
the destruction was not against us; it was only amongst themselves; but it was destruction 


nevertheless. 


So far as prices in Delhi are concerned, 1 am not going into the whole question of 
prices here. But I do want to take this opportunity of saying that Government is taking 
special measures to ensure increased supplies of essential commodities in Delhi, in the 
Delhi market especially during the ASIAD, so as to prevent prices going up to a significant 
extent. 


Now, my hon. friend Shri Sathe will excuse me if I say a word about him, because 
several people have quoted from his speech. His own thinking has been largely, if not 


* Responding to Prof. Madhu Dandavate’s comment, “Do not blind them with retrospective effect!” 


22222 


Soe 
a 
We 


aes 
; : 
: 02%: ae 
Pal 


er IN Lt AL NT RE a 
एक पा Sen 2222 


f “बचा 
५ see ee 


127 
eat ee 


he 


367 


entirely these days, confined to the question of colour TV. And it is true that he felt that 
we are not giving that issue priority he thought that it deserves. This is all that he meant 
by his long speech. I must confess that I am not against colour TV. The question is one of 
priority. My priority in radio and TV is to reach the largest number of villages possible. 
And we feel that we cannot do this with colour TV. We do not want to stop colour TV and 
we have begun it. But we feel that it is easier and cheaper to cover the country with black 
and white. If we can do it cheaply with colour TV, certainly we shall do so. We do not 
want to lag behind other countries and especially our neighbours. At this moment, this 
poses a serious problem. In the border areas, people like to switch on to coloured 
programmes from other countries rather than to see our own black and white. This is a 
real problem which we have all to face. 


Some people have said that the 20-Point Programme is not new. We never said that it 
~ was. We have called it the revised 20-Point Programme. It was revised because some of 
the points have been completed and because we wanted to direct our attention and energies 
to the gaps and the most urgent problems which remain. 


Some hon. Members feel that any time anybody mentions the name of the Soviet Union, 
they have to rush to its defence. I think the Soviet Union is quite capable of defending 
itself. It can do without help from this quarter. (Interruptions) 1 do not think that Shn Gadgil 
meant in any way to denigrate the Soviet Union. He was referring to the news that has 
appeared in newspapers in many countries that the USSR is short of grain not only for 
cattle but wheat for human beings also. This is not a cause for blame because, so much 
depends on rain. Shri Gadgil just stated a fact which he had read. To interpret it as casting 
aspersions on a friendly country would be wrong, and even an unfriendly act towards that 
country. 


a a मं aie मैप मर ai 3c भर 


Some other Members have made all kinds of insinuations. I do not wish to take the 
names of the hon. Members, but I can only say that it was the vilest possible insinuation 
to say that the Centre, or the Union Government, gives instructions for any or every Bill, 
or that all actions are referred to me or to anybody who is not directly concerned. 


I am not concerned with what words were used in my Manipur case. But even if you 
say—I am not admitting it at all for I do not want to start a new argument. Even if I were 
merely summoned there as a witness, it is not a ridiculous charge to summon a former 
Prime Minister, abetting the stealing of two chickens and six eggs? That is the question 
which I want to ask...(/nterruptions). 


Sir, the Opposition cannot have it both ways. On the one hand, they say I am a dictator, 
I do not allow anybody to function, I do not allow anybody to speak; on the other hand, 
they say that people are doing things without asking me, things are happening in Bihar, 
things are happening in Delhi, without my being aware of them! You cannot have it both 
ways. You choose which you want and stick to that point of view...(/nterruptions) 


I should like to ask which Communist country or which Fascist country has democracy? 
Perhaps you would like to answer that question... (Interruptions) 1 do not know if Mr. 
Vajpayee will agree with that. 


I charge this Opposition... (Interruptions) I am just finishing. I charge this Opposition 
with irresponsibility; I charge this Opposition with utter disregard for the norms of 
democracy; I charge this Opposition with wasting the time of this hon. House; I charge 
them wasting the money of the exchequer; I charge them with lack of concern for important 
legislation. Just measure the time spent on actual legislation or discussion on important 
issues now facing us and the world with the time spent on shouting, whether it is in ‘zero 
hour’ or on other occasions... (Interruptions) 


In the beginning, not a voice used to be heard from our side. Only when we discovered 
that by keeping quiet the Opposition would not allow us to function only then our people 
started shouting. If the Opposition guarantees to keep quiet, I guarantee that not a word 
will come from our Members. Are you prepared to listen to that? Are you going to control 
your motley crowd there? I charge this so-called Left of the country for so completely 
abandoning its principles and ideals and for selling out to the right reactionaries. 
(Interruptions) 


ak a 2k अर गंध मं मर मंद ak 


A couple of speeches or demonstrations make no difference, nor do they form a policy. 
Those who are concerned with progressive policies all over the world are aware of this 
betrayal by the Indian left (/nterruptions). 


Sir, I should like to remind the House of the early days of Hitler in Germany, when 
the West was content to encourage him because he was supposed to crush communism 
and in that process millions of people in Germany, in Austria, in Czechoslovakia, Poland 
and other countries were tortured and massacred in the most barbarous manner imaginable 
and the entire world was engulfed in World War II. Today, the so-called Left forces in 
India are supporting the BJP and RSS and strengthening them in the hope, they are giving 
it respect in the hope... (/nterruptions). I shall keep on repeating tll you sit. 


ae मंद ak 4k 2c मे 


The Left are giving the reactionaries responsibility they are strengthening them in the 
hope that this will weaken and, if possible, destroy the Congress, the Party which brought 
Independence to India, the Party which brought honour and progress, ...(/nterruptions) 
the Party which is trying against tremendous odds to retain our culture and at the same 
time modernising the country and bringing a better life to millions of our people, specially 
the weaker and under-privileged sections. 


Sir, I should like to ask: How many voices were raised in the Opposition when one of 
its Members openly and gleefully declared himself to be an agent of the CIA? How did 
the Opposition react when one of its Member gave information to a foreign embassy? Does 
this bring honour to the country? Whatever its faults, the Congress—and the Congress does 


369 


have faults because we also are human, we are not super human, we do have faults, but 
the Congress always has risen and always will rise to the challenge. 


* Hon. Members of the Opposition have brought this Motion to empty their ammunition. 
They have been poor marksmen and their ammunition was damp and stale. Little damage 
has been done except that the valuable time of the House has been spent on issues which 
have been discussed many times before. 


I ask the hon. Member to withdraw his Motion and if he does not do so, I request you 
all to defeat it strongly. (Interruptions) 


370 


3 


ECONOMIC POLICIES, PROGRAMMES AND PLANS 


Gold Policy* 


Sir, in the last session of Parliament, the question of gold control was raised during a 
discussion on the Finance Bill. The Finance Minister stated that the entire question of gold 
control would be reviewed with reference, inter alia, to the various points raised by hon. 
Members in the course of the discussion. To undertake such a review an informal committee 
was set up with Shri L.P. Singh, Union Home Secretary as Chairman. Shri B.N. Adarkar, 
Deputy Governor of the Reserve Bank of India, and Shri Pitamber Pant, Adviser, Planning 
Commission, as Members, and Shri Jasjit Singh, Gold Control Administrator, as Member- 
Secretary. The Informal Committee has submitted an interim report. A copy of the Report 
is placed on the Table of the House The main conclusion reached by the Committee 1s 
that there has been no economic or financial development of any significance since 
Parliament enacted the Gold Control Act, 1965, such as would warrant a change in the 
basic gold policy. 


While Government agree with this conclusion of the Committee, they recognise that a 
measure of socio-economic reform which is aimed at changing centuries old traditions and 
customs cannot be expected to become fully effective within a few years. Restrictions 
aimed at discouraging the consumption of gold in the country have to be introduced 
gradually, though progressively, and a good deal of public education has necessarily to 
accompany control measures which are brought into force. 


With these basic considerations in mind, Government have decided to take the 
following action : 


All the restrictions on making gold omaments of more than 14-carat imposed under 
the Gold Control] Order will be withdrawn. This will give relief to a large number of 
goldsmiths and substantially meet the criticism voiced, and suggestions made, in this House 
and outside. It will also give society a longer time to adjust itself to a change, which 
would progressively minimise the use of gold for personal purposes. 


In order that this relaxation does not lead to an increase in the smuggling of gold, which 
according to the Informal Committee, 18 of a sizeable order, it will be necessary to take 
certain other steps in pursuit of the long term objectives of our gold policy. Government 
propose to prohibit the possession of “primary gold” such as_ gold bars, ingots, slabs, 
billets, shots, pellets, rods, wires. Persons holding “primary gold” legally, i.e., those who 


* Making a Statement regarding relaxation of gold control, LS. Deb., 2 September, 1966, cc. 8943-45. 


373 


declared gold under the Gold Control Order, as well as those holding gold within the = 
exempted limits, will be afforded reasonable time to dispose it of either by sale to licensed 585 
déalers or by its conversion into ornaments. This will increase the availability of gold in 

the market for ornament making. 


Government propose to bring the refineries under State-control with the objective of 
eventually bringing them under State ownership. 


In order to safeguard that smuggled gold is not freely converted into ornaments, 
declarations will need to be filed by persons possessing ornaments above a limit to be 
specified. This limit will be so fixed, however, as to ensure that by far the larger section 


of the people who possess gold ornaments in reasonable quantities will not be required 
to make such declarations. 


Fiscal policies as well as public education will be directed towards weaning people 
away from the gold habit which costs us large amounts of foreign exchange at a time 
when we are required to mobilise al] available resources to finance our development. 


Government propose to give effect to these modifications as early as possible after 
providing for the necessary legal and administrative arrangements.* 


* An identical Statement was made by the Prime Minister, Smt. Indira Gandhi in Rajya Sabha also, (R.S. Deb., 2 
September, 1966, cc 5389-92.) 


374 


Planning Commission’ 


Mr. Speaker, Sir, for some time past Government have had under consideration the 
recommendations of the Administrative Reforms Commission on the “Machinery of 
Planning’’. They also took the opportunity of the recent Conference of Chief Ministers to 
seek their views. Government have now finalized their decisions. 


The Administrative Reforms Commission recognised the necessity of national planning 
for the social and economic betterment of the country and considered what would be the 
appropriate functions and role of the Planning Commission. They felt that the role of the 
Planning Commission should be mainly to formulate Plans and to evaluate Plan 
performance. The Commission should not be burdened with any executive functions. 
Government broadly agree with this approach. This approach also had the general approval 
of the Chief Ministers. 


Government also agree with the recommendation that the Planning Commission should 
submit an annual report on Plan performance, and that this report should be placed before 
Parliament. 


The general opinion at the Chief Ministers’ Conference was that the Prime Minister 
should continue to be the Chairman of the Planning Commission. Government agree with 
this view. 


The question of association of other Central Ministers with the Planning Commission 
as Members has also been examined. The general view at the Chief Ministers’ Conference 
was that the Finance Minister should also be a Member of the Planning Commission. 
Government agree with this view. While other Central Ministers will not be formally 
associated with the Commission as its Members, it will be open to the Prime Minister to 
invite them from time to time to join in the deliberations of the Commission as may be 
necessary. 


Government have decided that the Planning Commission should have the guidance of 
a whole-time Deputy Chairman who need not be a Member of the Council of Ministers. 
The Administrative Reforms Commission recommended five full-time Members including 
the Deputy Chairman, and two other part-time Members as may be found necessary. While 
Government consider that there need be no rigidity about the number of Members, they 


* Statement regarding Government decisions on the Administrative Reforms Commission’s Recommendations relating 
to the Planning Commission, L.S. Deb., 17 July, 1967 cc. 12361-63. 


ims 25 


agree with the broad approach that the Commission should be a compact and small body 
of full tme Members. Government are of the view that it should not be necessary to make 
“any part-time appointments to the Commission 


Matters pertaining to specific subjects allocated to different Ministries will be dealt 
with in Parliament by the Ministers concerned. Financial, administrative and general 
questions will be dealt with by the Finance Minister or the Prime Minister as the case 
may be. 


Government have decided that the National Development Council, of which the Prime 
Minister will continue to be Chairman, should be composed of all Union Cabinet Ministers, 
Chief Ministers of the States and the Union Territories and Members of the Planning 
Commission. Delhi Administration will be represented in the Council by the Lt. Governor 
and the Chief Executive Councillor, and the remaining Union territories by their respective 
Administrators. 


It will be essentially for the State Governments to consider what arrangements they 
will make to deal with planning at the State or lower levels. These will be discussed and . 
settled between the Central and State Governments from time to time. i S 


376 


Fourth Five-Year Plan* 


Mr. Chairman, Sir, hon. Members will recall that the memorandum on the Fourth Five 
Year Plan, was published in October, 1964, and presented to the National Development 
Council. The Council then proceeded to set up five Committees to consider various aspects 
of the Plan, including resources. These Committees met between January and July 1965. 
Their efforts culminated in a document, prepared by the Planning Commission, entitled 
‘Fourth Five Year Plan—Resources, Outlays and Programmes”. This document was 
submitted to the National Development Council in September, 1965. Hon’ble Members 
will recall that this was the month of the Pakistani aggression. The National Development 
Council authorised the Prime Minister to make such changes in the proposals contained 
in the document as were considered necessary in the light of the situation which existed 
at that time. The Planning Commission were able to complete the Draft Outline of the 
Fourth Plan in September, 1966 for the consideration of Parliament. An Annual Plan for 
1966-67 was also, prepared a few months earlier, keeping broadly within the framework 
of the Draft Outline. 


It is no secret that the conflict of 1965 had many adverse economic consequences for 
the country. Following hostilities, foreign credits were suspended which meant curtailment 
and stringent control of imports essential for the continued growth of the economy. 


There was further strain in the economy because of the altogether unexpected setback 
to our agricultural production even during 1966-67 after the failure of the previous year, 
the two droughts necessitated larger imports of foodgrains and raw materials, and greatly 
affected our capacity to export. Compared to the previous year, there was a further lowering 
in our foreign receipts in 1966-67. The setback in agricultural production also caused a 
retardation in the important sector of industries based on agricultural raw-material and those 
depending on consumption demand of agriculturist. The sharp rise in the prices of 
foodgrains which was inevitable in the situation of very large short fall of production, tended 
to reduce savings, and affected our capacity to make larger investments. This in turn affected 
certain other branches of industry such as the engineering industry. All this resulted to 
considerable erosion of resources for development. On the expenditure side, the defence 
burden, subsidies on food and increasing dearness allowance consequent on rise in prices 
also depleted our resources further. 


* Statement in response to a Calling Attention regarding the reported decision of the Government to defer the Fourth 
Five-Year Plan by three years, R.S. Deb., 6 December, 1967, cc. 2724-27. 


377 


Mr. Chairman, Sir, these were the circumstances which delayed the completion of the 
Fourth Five-Year Plan and it was decided that the Annual Plan for 1967-68 should also be 
“formulated in advance of the Fourth Plan in order to aovid a pause in the developmental 
process. The Annual Plan for 1967-68 was completed in June, 1967 and submitted to 
Parliament. 


At the time of the re-constitution of the Planning Commission in September, 1967, it 
was obvious that many of the assumptions and calculations incorporated 1n the Draft Outline 
were no longer valid and that, to a large extent, fresh exercises would have to be made 
before the Fourth Five-Year Plan could be completed. Meanwhile, the work of the 
preparation of the Annual Plan for 1968-69 had to be taken up immediately. In order that 
proposals of the Annual Plan for 1968-69 should be effectively incorporated in the Budgets 
for 1968-69, it was necessary for the Annual Plan to be ready by January, 1968 to ensure 
that development outlays during the year 1968-69 were properly balanced and coordinated. 
The reconstituted Commission, therefore, decided.to concentrate on the formulation of the 


Annual Plan in September, 1967 and is presently engaged in this work. It is proposed to - 
undertake the work of the Fourth Five-Year Plan in January, 1968 after the completion of Ce 
the Annual Plan for 1968-69. 


Thus, the Annual Plans for 1966-67 and 1967-68 have already been brought out and 


Ss “ 02५ 


the latter is being implemented. Although expectations of a good harvest have given hope oS 
of improvement in the econom there are still elements of uncertainty and danger of oe 
inflationary pressures continuing unchecked. A number of corrective steps are required : a 


during 1968-69 to tighten economic discipline and to create conditions in which steady 
planned growth can take place 1n conditions of relative financial stability. The output levels 
in 1968-69 would be close to the target of the Third Plan and would be a reasonable base 
for setting out the tasks of the Fourth Plan. It is for these reasons that the years 1966-67, 
1967-68 and 1968-69 are proposed to be excluded from the Fourth Plan. Such a Five 
Year Plan, to be operationally useful for providing guidance on the programmes and policies 
for the future should cover the period 1969-70 to 1973-74. The National Development 
Council at its meeting on 1st and 2nd December, 1967, has endorsed this. 


7 ay 
Reena 
seen gees 
ate gies! रा 
CY A! re A 


es 
Bae 
oe 222: 


ee 
12 , 


Mr. Chairman, Sir, may I state very clearly that the Government has not given up 
planning, as the movers of the Calling Attention Notice have suggested. Far from it, the 
process of planning is being continued and vigorously pursued although the means and 

_methods may have to be changed to take into account our changing economic situation. 
Indeed, even if the Fourth Five-Year Plan had been finalised before the end of 1966, the 
size and composition of outlays would have to take into account the exceptional features 
of the prevailing economic situation and there is no reason to believe that the outlays would 
have been any different. 


I should like to emphasize that the Five Year Plans have assumed even greater urgency 
and importance for us. The effort is essential and must be made continucusly and seriously. 
It is in that spirit that the Planning Commission is proceeding towards the formulation of 
the Fourth Five-Year Plan. With the gains of the current year’s good harvest and with the 
economy stabilised, we should have laid the foundations for resuming the process of rapid 
development in the proposed next Five-Year Plan period. 


378 


Unemployment Among Engineering Graduates“ 


Sir, I do not wish to take the time of the House except for a minute or two because I 
want to thank the hon. Member Shri Mohan Dharia for having raised this very important 
issue in the House. Government is deeply concerned with this problem and I can understand 
the feelings of hon. Members. 


mK 24 अर He ae भर a 2 और 


Mr. Vice-Chairman, as you rightly said a little while ago, the issue before us particularly 
calls for a co-operative approach. This is not a party matter, nor itis a debate which requires 
an answer. Therefore, I do not think it makes any difference as to who speaks before or 
after. As you yourself have mentioned, the Education Minister is going to reply to the 
debate. Some hon. Members requested that I might come and say just a few words and 
that is why I came as soon as | could. 


This is a problem, as I had begun to say, which is of deep concern to the Government 
and to all of us, not only because of the hardship which our young engineers are facing, 
but because it is a waste of national talent and national energy, which we need to use at a 
very difficult time of our economic development. We are fully conscious of this. Now, the 
situation is an unfortunate one, even a tragic one. The President, in his Address, has also 
expressed his deep concern and disquiet at this development. What has happened is that 
after planning for technical man-power based on certain rates of economic growth, while 
the targets of expansion in the field of technical education have been reached, the capacity 
of the economy to absorb them has been seriously reduced, because of the special 
circumstances of the last few years. That is why we have had this imbalance, thus creating 
this special and difficult problem. I have been in personal touch through some of the 
institutions which I have visited, through a number of students who come to meet me from 
different parts of the country. Different people, including the Education Minister, have made 
a number of suggestions as to how this problem should be dealt with. I forwarded them to 
the Planning Commission, because I thought there should be one authority, who could go 
into the whole matter, co-ordinate the suggestions and find out what was possible to do 
immediately, in the light of the resources available. The Planning Commission has very 
kindly gone into this matter. I had suggested serious discussions with the various Ministries 
of the Government and on that basis, just very recently—in fact, it is only this morning— 
I have seen a draft of certain suggestions which they have made. Now, these suggestions 


* Participating in the Short Duration Discussion under Rule 176 regarding growing unemployment among engineering 
graduates and diploma holders, R.S. Deb., 22 March, 1968, cc. 6067, 6078-83. 


379 


and their monetary and fiscal implications have to be studied by the various Ministries, 
and we have asked them to deal with the matter most urgently. We hope that a decision 
can‘soon be taken on this. What I wanted to say was that we are grateful to all the Members, 
who have raised this discussion, and we shall certainly pay the most serious consideration 
to their opinions and to the constructive suggestions which they will make in the course 
of the discussion. We shall certainly take the House into confidence regarding the measures 
which we decide to adopt. 


The President stressed in his Address that there could be no easy, short-term solutions. 
The problem can be solved only in the méasure that our economy revives and the rate of 
industrial growth is accelerated. We need to critically re-study our man-power requirements 
and keep in touch with the State Governments and university authorities to determine what 
changes are necessary in our present policy in order to achieve higher quality as well as a 
more rational equation between the output of engineering personnel and the likely demand 
for them. I agree with the hon. Member, who spoke just now, that we must not view this 
problem from the point of view of the needs of the near future only and we must not do 
anything which would jeopardise our future needs. Whatever we do today is not going to 
have any immediate effect, except in those short-term steps which we can take with regard 
to those young engineers who are unemployed at the present moment. In order to deal 
with this aspect, we are having a study of the recession in industrial activity and certain 
measures—my colleague, the Deputy Prime Minister, has spoken about them—have been 
initiated to stimulate production and investment. Certain budgetary provisions have been 
made with regard to irrigation and so on, in which our people could be employed. We are 
also in the process of locating those aspects of economic activity where the intensive use 
of engineering skills would be conducive to better returns from existing investments as 
well as those contemplated in the Fourth Plan. Now in the past, the lack of personnel was 
a constraint on the adequate preparatory investigation of plan schemes and it also reduced 
the number of alternatives before us. To that extent that we are now able to remedy these 
defects and improve the quality of technical investigations and enlarge the area of choice, 
the present surplus might well prove to be an asset to the nation. It 18 not an easy job. We 
have to go through a difficult phase and the young people concerned will also have to put 
up with a certain amount of hardship. But I can assure the House that in the preparatory 
work for the Fourth Plan, as well as in the long-term measures and schemes which are 
finally included in the Plan itself, every effort will be made to mitigate this hardship and 
solve the problem. 


One other point made was with regard to foreign collaboration. I agree with the hon. 
Member* that there have been many such cases where one does not see the necessity for 
going into collaboration. Inspite of our best efforts, we have been a little lax in this matter. 
I should like to state here that I myself am deeply concerned over this matter and I have 
taken it up with our Ministries time and again, as to how we can tighten up the whole 
procedure, so that we do not enter into such turnkey contracts or other collaboration 
arrangements in matters which we can do ourselves. Of course, this again, means a certain 


* Sbri Krishan Kant. 


amount of hardship, because sometimes it is easier to take on such tumkey contracts or to 
have collaboration and produce something quicker and perhaps even cheaper. 


Doing it in our own way may mean that it will take more time and that it will cost 
more money. Now, I personally think that if this is put squarely to the nation, they will be 
prepared for that extra effort. I do not want to go into the further details with regard to 
this. 


I would like to assure hon. Members that this is something which we have very much 
at heart and which we are looking into. Unfortunately, many of these contracts and so on 
were entered into earlier and it is not possible to put an end to them immediately. But we 
are doing our best to see that in future no such step is taken. Not only should our effort be 
such but the decision and the implementation should be that Indian know-how and our 
technology are used to the fullest extent. If it is not available, sometimes we should even 
be prepared to change the scheme, if necessary, to fit in with the assets available and put 
up with that extra hardship. 


381 


Role of Planning Commission* 


... The Planning Commission has been reorganised and that question is being reopened. 
I made a statement here—I think it was on the 17th July last year—indicating the decisions 
which the Government had taken. That is not a matter which is sought to be gone into 
now. 


The present resolution, on the other hand, is rather premature because the report which 
is now being discussed was given to me by the Chairman on 14th March. It is quite a 
voluminous report, and I do not think Government has had sufficient time to go into all of 
it. Nevertheless, I would like to tell hon. Members what decisions have so far been taken. 


The hon. Mover** of the resolution and also some other hon. Members kept on referring 
to some newspaper report. I do not know what report this is. But judging from their remarks 
I can safely say that it is entirely incorrect. There is no question of the Planning Commission 
rejecting the recommendations of the Administrative Reforms Commission. 


They have gone into them very carefully and they have accepted many of them, some 
with some modifications. The other recommendations are under examination, in 
consultation with various Central Ministries or with State Governments. 


Governments agree with the approach-which of course is how the Planning 
Commission has functioned al] along—that the Planning Commission should indicate the 
implications of alternative approaches and strategies of development and should also be a 
policy instrument which would help in accelerating the tempo of development. 


Government also share the view of the Administrative Reforms Commission and so 
does the Planning Cominission, that while formulating the Five-Year Plan, the Planning 
Commission should keep before it the perspective of development over a longer period, 
the period varying for different sectors of economy. In fact, perhaps hon. Members are 
-aware, the Planning Commission has had a Perspective Planning Division, which has been 
looking at planning from the long-term point of view. 


Similarly, Government agree that the Five-Year Plan should take into account internal 
contingencies, such as the failure of the monsoon. This is something which, after the event 
takes place, one can be wise about. Now, when we know that such a thing can happen, 
certainly we must keep in view every possible contingency. 


* While replying to the debate on the Resolution moved by Shri S. Xavier regarding reorganisation of the Planning 
Commission, 1. ७. Deb., 19 April, 1968, cc. 1893-1901. 


** Shri S. Xavier. 


382 


Recaps crates PERRET 
: as ~ PACA Ne astro ane ARE A CNC 
2105० 05८ 3222 re EE 
52८27::22% eee 21302 ea 
0 aie pea Street tt 
mx SES ed PO Peete x y 


232 


Soran 
5202 मे, 
outros 


Nts 
ume . 


mee 


52222 
bees 


eee Se Ao 
dae ees 
24050: 
POSE 


20002 
een 


But I am sure hon. Members will understand that it is not always possible to imagine 
what kind of calamities could overtake us. Certainly, the drought which took place in India 
was a very exceptional happening ; it was not something which one could expect. 


Naturally, Government also agree that a realistic assessment of foreign aid should be 
made and it should be possible to devise a programme for reducing dependence on foreign 
aid for the Plan as a whole and not for each individual project or scheme. 


The Administrative Reforms Commission have also suggested the detailed procedure 
to be followed by the Planning Commission in the process of Plan formulation, such as 
the composition of working groups, optimum utilisation of advisory bodies working under 
the Central Ministries and association of Development Councils. Government consider that 
in these matters while the recommendations of the Administrative Reforms Commission 
will be kept in view, the Planning Commission should at the same time, have sufficient 
discretion and flexibility of approach. 


Now, with regard to the next suggestion Government and Planning Commission agree 
that the Commission should confine its scrutiny only to such schemes as involve a 
substantial amount of investment, sizable foreign exchange component, considerations of 
inter-State interest, significant policy implications from the national standpoint or 
implementation of basic national priorities and that detailed sectoral planning, including 
preparation and execution of individual schemes and programmes should, as at present, 
be attended to by the States. Various hon. Members here gave the impression that some 
kind of plan was drawn up without reference to the States and then the States were forced 
to accept them. This is far from the truth, because all plans are made in very close and 
constant consultation with the States. By the way, one of the last speakers, I believe Shri 
Desai, was under the impression that a number of Ministers are members of the Planning 
Commission. That is not true. . 


मै मै मै मं मंद मं ae af a 


Now, in the Planning Commission there is no Minister except myself and the Deputy 
Prime Minister, who is also the Finance Minister. We certainly thought that the whole 
working of the Planning Commission would be more realistic if the Finance Minister were 
associated with it. 

Apart from the State Governments being consulted, each year the annual plans are 
finalised again in detailed consultation separately with each State Government and finally, 
at the level of the Chief Ministers themselves. The State Governments are also associated 
with the working groups. 


There are certain suggestions regarding Central assistance to the States for their plans. 
This matter, naturally, cannot be decided upon without consulting with the State 
Governments. This will also be placed before the next meeting of the NDC 1n which, as 


you all know, all the State Governments are represented. 


There was much criticism of the Planning Commission doing executive functions. In 
my last statement of July 17 last year, I had already made it clear that we have streamlined 


383 


it considerably. There is no time now otherwise I was going to describe what functions 
~ have been given up. But I must assure hon. Members that by taking away these executive 
functicns it is not at all our intention to decrease. the importance of the Planning 
Commission. The Planning Commission has a very significant place in the whole 
functioning of the Government and we consider that it would be disastrous if it were to be 
made less competent or less important. 


I was very glad to hear from the hon. Member, Shri Piloo Mody, that he and the 
Swatantra Party do believe in planning because, I must confess, there were many statements, 
not perhaps in this Parliament but on earlier occasions when I certainly had the impression 
that they did not believe in the concept of planning for the nation-they may have believed 
in other items of planning—planning for the use of the resources of the nation, planning 
for the removing of disparities and, as my hon. friend on this side said planning for creating 
social change without which, I think, we can neither strengthen our economy nor make it 
a reality for the people as a whole 


ae ak ak ae a ak ate मैट और 


There was another question about the size of the Commission and about pruning it to 
make it more economical. I think, I have answered a question in this House where I gave 
details of the recommendations made by an internal re-organisation committees, which is 
chaired by Shri Venkatappiah, many of whose interim recommendations have already been 
accepted involving a saving of Rs. 11 lakh and a large number of posts. 


Government has already decided that every year the Planning Commission should bring 
out a progress report on the implementation of the Plan and that this report should be placed 
on theTable of the House as soon as possible. | am sure, hon. Members are aware that 
evaluation reports prepared by the Programme Evaluation Organisation of the Planning 
Commission are already being supplied to all Members of Parliament. So, that keeps them 
in touch with what is happening. 


The Administrative Reforms Commission have made a number of recommendations 
which pertain to the planning machinery in the States, such as the constitution and 
functioning of planning boards, responsibility of district development set-ups for planning 
at district level, preparation of annual progress reports and evaluation of programmes in 
the State plans. The attention of the State Governments has already been drawn to these 
recommendations and these also will be discussed at the next meeting of the NDC. 


In spite of the denial, 1 must confess, I myself was under the impression that Shri Xavier 
was opposing his own Resolution because having started off by saying that we should 
accept what the ARC has recommended he went on to say that the Planning Commission 
should be scrapped. That is the impression that I and many Members got. 


ae 2c a ae a मर ae 2 भर 


Some hon. Members made a point that the Planning Commission is some kind of a 
parallel Government or a parallel Cabinet and somebody said that it is a super Cabinet... 


2 fk shee a ae ok मर 


384 


(2०० ०:०००००९०००००४००० 


ce 
= 


२४८ 
००००८:८५०० 
Se 


पट 


RUNS 


ata” 


1००३८०००००९ 
02०:8०८०१०० 


I am sorry in that case I disagree with the Commission as well as all those who made 
this remark*. Its functions have already been defined by two Members on this side. So, I 
need not go into that. There is no question of that. The Planning Commission is to see 
what resources the country has and how those resources can be used. There is no conflict 
between that kind of evaluation of resources and planning as to how to use them. Decisions 
are taken by the Government. The Government can accept their recommendations or need 
not accept them. But the point is that they work very closely alongwith the Government 
and this is the reason for my accepting to be the Chairman so that it would not be necessary 
suddenly at any stage to say that this cannot be done because, at all times, we are in touch 
with both the State Governments and the Central Government. 


eC ak he ak He अर 


There are also other members of the Cabinet**. There is no confusion at all. This 
situation can arise with any proposal that comes to the Cabinet. You can say, if the Prime 
Minister is there, how can anybody say anything. That could happen in regard to any 
proposal. Here, a proposal comes and the Cabinet must honestly and frankly express its 
opinion on it. But, as I said, that occasion cannot ordinarily atise because whatever comes 
is discussed with the Ministries concerned. 


Naturally, none of us can have such a thing as an ideal plan because the needs of States 
and the Ministries are vast and we do not have the resources to meet all these demands 
and, therefore, the Planning Commission has the unpopular task of pruning them. Even 
though we consider that many of the demands are right or just and are very necessary for 
development, even then in view of the resources available, you have to cut some of these 
demands and, naturally, anybody whose plans are cut is not very happy about it. But, as I 
said, this has to be looked at in a larger perspective. The whole function of the Planning 
Commission is to keep all these needs of individual Central Ministries or of the States in 
a larger picture. 


मंद oc मं मर मर af atc मंद aie 


The States have a great deal of say in it.*** 


Some friends opposite are very fond of drawing a picture of India which is on the 
downgrade all the time. I do not know how that helps them nor whether it cheers them to 
paint such a picture, or whether that gives a better image of India abroad. 


teak ak Hk मंद ae a मे 


I don’t need that to work me up****. I am in touch with the people of India and they 
are constantly working me up. I do not doubt that at all. 


* Replying to the remark of a Member who said, “The A.R.C. also said that’’. 
** Replying to Shri Piloo Mody’s observation, “If the Prime Minister and the Finance Minister recommend it to 
the Cabinet, how can the Cabinet reject it ?” 
*** Replying to Shri S. Kandappan’s remark : “The States have no 889, 
**** Replying to Shri Piloo Mody’s remark : “We work you up.” 


mee 


385 


India has gone through a tremendous ordeal in the last two years. That we have come 
out of that ordeal with flying colours is a tribute to the planning machinery, to the base 
we have laid here and all that. We may have made many mistakes, and we have made 
mistakes. We are facing many difficulties today. But let the hon. Members who spoke of 
the economic mess, look around the world and tell me which country they are not today 
facing economic difficulties, whether they have socialist planning or capitalist planning. 
They are all facing tremendous economic difficulties. We happen to be a part of this world. 
We are not living in some other world. So, that also has an influence on our economy and 
its growth. 


ae aie मर ae ae oe ae a 2 


This is not an occasion really to go into the details of planning. This was a very limited 
Resolution with regard to the proposals made in the final report of the A.R.C. But, for 
once in my life, I agree with something which the hon. Member, Mr. Jha, has said. I agree 
with him that the present situation cannot be faced with timidity; it does need boldness, it 
needs daring, it needs vision and also it needs a certain amount of unity. We have people 
who believe in daring, boldness and so on but they use it not for building, but unfortunately 
for taking us down-all the agitations and so on which take place are not helping to build 
the country or to take planning forward. We need vision. Here is this Parliament to provide 
the vision. The Planning Commission should certainly also have vision, but they are 
working in a limited context. The vision is to be provided by political 
figures. ..(/nterruptions) I agree with you on this, and I think, we should all help to provide 
the boldness and give the vision and to create an atmosphere in the country where this 
work can be done. That is one of the most important things. 


ae ac और aK मर ae 2K मु 


What is the correct policy ? *Every time I have to repeat the same thing. You think 
that one policy is correct ; the Mover of the Resolution thinks that another policy is correct; 
we think that our policy is correct. Obviously, we admit that we have not always been 
able to implement our policies in the manner in which they should be implemented. That, 
We do agree, but I do not agree that the policy has failed. We do need...(/nterruptions). 


ak ok HC tC 


The result is there for all to see**. If only you will try to look around the country and 
see what is happening and compare it with the stage at which the country was even two 
or three years ago, you will find that there has been a vast change; it is a continuous change; 
and it 1s a change which is strengthening our country and taking it forward... 


* Replying to Shri Vasudevan Nair who said : “Correct policies”. 
** Replying to Shri Nambiar’s remark : ‘The result is the guide to indicate which is correct or ०80", 


११ Pee 
pees 


Planning Commission-—its Role and Functions* 


Mr. Speaker, Sir, the scope of this discussion was made clear, that it is not really a 
discussion on the Fourth Plan but on the Planning Commission. However, many comments 
have been made on the Plan and its so-called short-comings as also on the entire history 
of free India. And, the favourite comment of the Opposition that nothing has been done in 
these last twenty years was heard from several lips. 


I do not think, Sir, that we need look up statistical tables to see what has happened in 
India; we need only go to the towns and, I would say, the villages also. I am fully conscious 
of the fact that there are areas which are still backward, there are communities which are 
poorer and more under-privileged than the rest. I am conscious that very much remains to 
be done for them. 


But the problems which we are facing today are the problems of development and 
growth and the changes which growth is bringing about. And it is because of the changes, 
it is because of what has been done in these years that these new problems, the new 
consciousness, the new demands and expectations have grown in the people. 


The discussion began perhaps appropriately, with what seem to be a new alignment of 
forces here. My Hon. friend, a member from the Swatantra Party who spoke, quoted 
extensively from the speech of Shri Namboodiripad, the Chief Minister of Kerala, and 
pointed out that there was very much in common between them. 


2 मंद मंद 2 ek ah a ak 


1 was wondering what comment we would have heard from the hon. Member, Shri 
Piloo Modi, if he had been present here. It was also a very interesting interpretation of 
Shri Namboodiripad’s point of view. I do not know whether Shn Namboodiripad would 
be flattered by this or not. Perhaps, he will hear more from him directly. 


ne ak a shook मं ok 2 ak 


Another point which was made was that the present Plan has not evoked enthusiasm. 
A comment was made by one of our Congress members who spoke that it is because we 
are now trying to be much business-like. It was right that in the beginning we should spread 
our wings wide because many things had to be started and a new atmosphere had to be 
created in the country. These things have been started and to a certain extent, that 


* Participating in the debate on the Demands for Grants, Planning Commission, L.S. Deb., 24 April 1969, 
००. 313-24. 


387 


atmosphere, a new outlook has been created in the country. But, after that, because of the 

-many difficulties which we had to face, the difficulties of invasion, the difficulties of 
dréught, we have had a constraint of resources. So, today the Commission is shorn of the 
old glamour and, at the same time, it has shed some of the powers of prior financial scrutiny 
and sanction which had made it a target of such bitter attack and criticism on the floor of 
the House. 


The Planning Commission today 1s certainly more functional and is applying itself to 
the solid, if not so glamorous, task of detailed workman-like programme planning and it 
will certainly continue its useful role of reconciling Centre and State view points and 
providing economic intelligence and advice to the different layers of Government. 


I was very sorry at some of the remarks that have been made here against the members 
of the Planning Commission, which were rather unfair to them. I should like to take this 
Opportunity to express my appreciation of the work of the Deputy Chairman and members 
of the Planning Commission. I must admit that my own work in this is practically nil, 
because I do not preside at the meetings which do the detailed work. Some impression 
was given here. as if members of the Government are concermed with the day to day work 
of the Commission and are somehow influencing it. This impression is not correct. 


ae 2 मर ae मं और ae मैप मर 


As I said,the main work is done by the Deputy Chairman and members. The Chairman 
comes in more as the coordinating person with regard to the Central Ministries and State 
Governments. They have done their common work in a practical way so as to finish it 
within the short time available to them. 


My hon. friend, Shr Surendranath Dwivedi, has made the remark that perhaps the Chief 
Ministers should not be present. I am sure the hon. Members will agree that the plan would 
be most unrealistic if the Chief Ministers were not in the National Development Council. 
They are there as representatives of Government. 


eae मं मे जंध मै मै मै भर 


What ever it is, a Chief Minister does represent the State.* That is what I am also saying. 
And if you have elected him as Chief Minister, obviously, he comes to the Council as the 
representative of Orissa State......./mterruptions) That is your internal business. I do not 
know whether there is need to air it publicly here. 


There was the usual discussion also as to the role of the N.D.C. The Plan does not 
suddenly descend on the members there as a new document. I interrupted my friend from 
DMK when he was speaking to tell him that the State Plans and the main Plan are discussed 
at every level with representatives of State Governments, at official level, at ministerial 


* Responding to Shri Surendranath Dwivedy’s observations “I think there is some misunderstanding. What I said 
was that when the Chief Ministers attend the meetings of the National Development Council, either they attend it 
as representatives of States or as representatives of political parties. That is the difference I have made”. 


level and, ultimately, at the Chief Ministers level. Even major decisions, such as on the 
criteria for allotment of funds, were taken by a Committee of the N.D.C. which consisted 
of all the Chief Ministers. So their point of view is represented at all stages before the 
Plan is finalised. Now, it is true that because of Shri Annadurai’s illness, he was not able 
to come but some other Minister did come. This was not the fault of the Planning 
Commission because they had sent their invitation to him alongwith others. 


The National Development Council exists because planning, in its very nature, must 
be national. I do not understand what people mean when they say, ““We do not accept the 
Plan’. Does it mean that they will forego the Central assistance ? What does it mean ? 
The Centre makes plans and the States make plans, and certain allocations are made. It is 
true that every State and every Central Ministry feels that its allocations have been cut 
unfairly and have been cut so drastically to the bone that it is difficult to proceed with the 
projects. That is a feeling which is shared by everybody. But these cuts were necessary 
because of the restricted resources. Every State is free to increase its resources, through 
additional mobilisation, and to that extent increase what it can do in the Plan. There is 
absolutely no restriction to that. It is only the Central assistance which is fixed. Their own 
resources are not fixed at all. It seems they are rejecting the Central assistance by rejecting 
the plan, seems to me a very peculiar sort of situation. 


The Chief Minister of Kerala and the Deputy Chief Minister of West Bengal, although 
they did speak of their dissent from the majority view, have very categorically stated that 
there will be no lacking or no hesitation in their fully implementing the Plan in their States. 
They have made that clear. I hope that is true of the other State Governments also. 


I was naturally happy when one of our friends, from this side, pointed out that one of 
our achievements in these years is that we have converted the Jana Sangh from not believing 
in the Plan into firm believers in the Plan. I think, that is a big achievement. 


As the hon. Members know, swadeshi is one of the first and original policies of the 
Congress Party to which the Government had adhered. In this context, this Plan is very 
much a swadeshi Plan because it is entirely oriented towards self-reliance. As you must 
have seen, we have said that within 2 years concessional food from outside will be stopped 
and, very soon, afterwards, we will reduce our dependence on foreign aid. Foreign aid, in 
net terms, will be reduced by the end of the Fourth Plan to about half the present level. I 
am sure the hon. Members understand that these results cannot be achieved all at once. 
But, certainly,the whole Plan is directed towards this goal of self-reliance. 


The two main points which were made were about unemployment and regional 
disparities. I have, on an earlier occasion also, spoken in this House on the problem of 
unemployment and under-employment and expressed my grave concern. How does one 
tackle this problem ? How does one create jobs ? Finally, it is only when the work of 
development itself goes ahead that jobs can be created. 


Some hon. Members said that if only we had stuck to improving agriculture, everything 
would have been all right in this country. I did not understand then and I did not understand 
now, how agriculture can be improved without having industries. The same hon. Member 


peek he BOA 28 3, 25 cahet etaran heh ae rattan! Non 


said that it was right that we were building up our defences. How can we build up our 
defences if we do not have industry to back it up the infrastructure which can provide the 
equipment which our defence forces need ? Therefore, development in all these sectors is 
very closely interlinked. We cannot separate agriculture from industry; nor, in the 
circumstances in India, can we separate industry from agriculture, because, that is also 
very much dependent on agriculture. Hon. Members know that there has been a real advance 


on the agricultural front. 


It is true that it is largely those farmers who had irrigated land, who were able to make 
full use of inputs such as the high-yielding varieties of seeds, fertilisers and so on, but 
even so, the other people did get some advantage. Increased agricultural production has 
created more jobs and has given some benefit although, I admit, marginally, to the poorer 
people who reside there. I am fully aware of the fact that very much more has to be done 
and, I think that, as we go ahead in this Plan, we will be able to be a step nearer to our 
goal. The last speaker or the one before the last speaker said something about briani or 
cake of something. No such remarks have been made by anybody on our side. On the 
contrary, in every speech and statement we have been emphasizing that the days and years 
to come will be full of hardship. No country, no system, has been able to develop without 
paying the price for it. Here perhaps some people think that if we just take the word 
‘capitalism’ we will immediately create a new situation and others think that by taking 
the name of ‘socialism’ we will bring about immediate change. But none of these things 
is magical. It is how you work them that makes a difference. 


ae He oe aK a अर ae a मु 


I do not want to go into the definition of ‘socialism’ which somebody wanted us fo 
define. 


eK भर ae 2c ac ft 2k a 


I can do and I shall do it when you have the debate some days later, but I am not doing 
it here.* (Interruptions). 


It is not becasue of uncertainties of estimates that it is not possible to give the precise 
figures of additional employment. I did give some figures earlier in this Session. I only 
want to stress that the employment problems cannot be divorced from the question of 
productivity and the rise in incomes of different sections of populaticn. 


About the influence of foreign aid, I think, we are all agreed. We know that no country 
in the modern world can be entirely independent of help from other countries. On the other 
hand, we also know that this help, if it grows, is harmful, and that is why this Plan is 
specially making efforts to reduce such help from outside. 


My hon. friend from the Jan Sangh said that, because of our large population, we had 
no need of technology, and that the modem system of technology was relevant to the West 


* Responding to a Member's remark, “Do it”. 


390 


72 
moans 2525 


RL i ROR aN ree ne 
bane Ae Pes mr 2 Sane gs anaes Serre” 2.० 2200, 
Sores is See 2 2 22027 ect 


20222 4 PRI 


22200 227 


because they had a small population. This, I think, was an extra-ordinary statement to make 
because it was because of our lack of technology at the earlier stage in our history that we 
fell into poverty and backwardness. Today, we must make up this lacune and we must 
proceed to take advantage of the experience of other nations, adding to it our own 
experience and our own knowledge, if we really want to solve our problems. 


The Planning Commission is not a political body at all. 


me ae a ae ae ak ve ate ak 


| I do not think it is quasi-political either.* They take up questions from purely economic 
points of view. However, when they meet the Chief Ministers, each Chief Minister brings 
a little bit of his politics with regard to what he needs in his State and so on. 


ae ae af ae ne मं eae a 


That becomes political, but the Planning Commission does not make it political.** I 
do not know in what sense the word ‘political’ is used here. I think even the Chief Ministers 
do not bring in their ideology. They bring the needs of the State which are very genuine 
needs. But the Planning Commission has to take an all-India view. They know how much 
money 1s available. How it should be distributed was decided by the Chief Ministers 
themselves. It is true that earlier, the Planning Commission itself did much of this work, 
but now they have divested themselves of some of this responsibility. 


Planning simply cannot be decentralised because naturally each State wants to look at 
it from its own point of view. And the whole point of planning 1s how to match programmes 
with resources so that the entire country benefits. Obviously in this process everybody 
has to sacrifice. Every State, every Ministry has to sacrifice a little bit. There was a figure 
for Tamil Nadu a little lower than what was indicated at first. That 1s due to the new criteria 
which were evolved again by the Chief Ministers. That is not the only State in which this 
has happened. This has happened to some other States also. It is true that Tamil Nadu has 
many difficulties but it is one of our advanced States and I would request the hon. Members 
to go and visit some of the areas which are really backward. 


ae मंध ak मं मंद मंद 2 ok ak 


We are very deeply concerned about all areas which are backward and I mentioned 
Bihar, Eastern U.P. and some of the Hill areas and Orissa. Rajasthan is of course going 
through a very difficult and painful experience at the moment. All these areas need very 
special care. It is precisely because of this we should have a Central Plan. Even then we 
cannot meet all their needs. At least we can give a direction and help them to some extent. 


Ultimately regional imbalances also can be redressed only over a period of time. It 
cannot be done suddenly. Here again we are between two contradictions. For instance, 
how did we increase our agricultural production? By helping those people who could use 


* Responding to Shri S. Kandappan’s remark. “It is a quasi-political body”. 
** Replying to Shri Ranga’s remark, “Planning itself is political”. 


391 


the help. We would not have had the food at the moment when we needed it urgently if 
we had not done this. Yet it has created a problem; it has created disparity between the 
farmer with irrigated land and the farmer with a dry land. This kind of disparity is all the 
time being created in the very process of growth:to some extent. As it is created, we have 
to see. how we can remedy this situation. In this Plan we are trying to do that. The disparities 
cannot be remedied immediately or to the full extent. At least we are taking steps in the 
right direction and weightage is given to be backward States. My colleague, the Deputy 
Minister, spelt out the different proportions of allotment. 


The investment in agriculture is not less. It is more than what it was in the previous 
plans; but apart from that a good deal of investment is not shown directly under agriculture 
because, it comes from the many programmes which are financed by financial institutions 
such as the Agricultural Refinance Corporation, Agro Industries Corporation, Rural 
Electrification Corporation and so on. There are also other schemes like fertiliser plants, 
rural electrification, etc. which are also for the-benefit of agriculture, but expenditure on 
which is not includéd in this figure. 


So, if you take that total figure, you will find that the allocation is very much larger. 


मै: गंध aK fk 2 ak ak 


We can add it up now, but I think, we can deal with it when we have a debate after a 
few days.* 


The hon. Member from the S.S.P. who spoke, spoke—if I may use the world—with 
great glee prophesying the failure of the plan. Now, Sir, what does the failure of the plan 
denote ? It is not the failure of one particular political party. It is a failure which will affect 
every single State, because, all the programmes in the plan are for the benefit of the States. 
Even in respect of what is in the Central sector, a large amount of it is concerned with 


schemes which may be Centrally-sponsored, but which are implemented in the States. So, © 


I think, even if we think that the plan does not go far enough, it 1s incumbent on us to see 


that it succeeds. It is only when it succeeds that all these schemes will be one step ahead 
in the different States. | 


I think that many uf the hon. Members have been looking at the Plan from a very narrow 
point of view; and from the point of view of their own States; and this is natural. I am not 
complaining about it. But I am only drawing their attention to this fact that it is only when 
the base of the country is strong that the whole process of development can go ahead even 
in each State. 


Somebody said that the plan figures are not definite because of my statement that we 
will look at it again. The two Statements are not contradictory. That is, the figures that 
have been given or the allotments which have been made are definite for the time being. 
But, we think that it may be possible to raise further resources and this will be done not 
once only, but it will be a continuous process. As we can raise further resources certainly 


* Responding to Shri Ranga’s remark, ‘What is the total figure’? 


392 


things will be added and programmes which we were not able to do, can be taken up. And 
this again depends very largely’on the State Governments if they are willing to take up 
this matter. 


Everybody is loud in asking for more projects and more schemes; they are all desirable 
schemes, no doubt, but when it comes to the question as to where the money comes from, 
there, I am afraid, the States are not so vocal. 


ae मैट ak 2 भर मै ake a af 


In Parliament, all of you are representing the States.* 


ak मंद ak 2 kak ae ok मर 


I don’t think the States are outside the nation. They are part of the nation.** 


The hon. Member from the Swatantra party said that the Planning Commission met 
with different types of people but not agriculturists. I may say that they do hold meetings 
with leading agriculturists from different parts of the country. 


My hon. friend from Ladakh is not here—yes, he is here. I am glad he is here. I want 
to tell him that the Fourth Plan outlay is Rs. 4.32 crores against the expenditure of Rs. 1.5 
crores during the Third Plan in Ladakh. The State Government has agreed to give very 
special attention to developments in Ladakh and we hope sincerely that the rate of progress 
will be stepped up. I know that all hill people have had special difficulties and places like 
Ladakh have also been suffering. 


The Planning Commission, some people said, is a large body, but as I said in answer 
to a question here, 77 posts were abolished last year and many posts are unfilled and at 
present, pending final review. The total fall in number is about 250. 


I do not want to go into all the points about the Plan. The Plan is not merely a collection 
of projects or schemes, but a well thought-out approach as to how to strengthen the base 
and the pace of progress so that the community can advance on all fronts. If we look at 
what happened in the last years, we will see that industrial production has trebled and 
special attention was given to develop basic and heavy industries. This is a point of special 
criticism as far as Jan Sangh and Swatantra Parties are concerned. But we consider it very 
necessary to the development, to the growth and even to the very existence of any country 
in the contemporary world. We ourselves have sufficient manufacturing capacity for many 
types of machinery and for hydro and thermal power generation, heavy mining machinery 
and many other types of things. This I am only saying as an example because every now 
and then it is said that nothing has been done. 


I hope that the House will unanimously support the demands of the Planning 
Commission because it is only then the Plan will be accepted as a national document—of 


* Replying to Shri Ranga’s observation, “Are you addressing the National Development Council or the Parliament.” 
** Responding to Shri Nath Pai's reply. “No; we represent the nation, Madam.” 


393 


Cat yaar Ree 


course with the dissent that sufficient money is not allotted to various States. If you do 
not give your support to the Plan, you cannot expect the public to give full support and if 
the public does not give full support it is not the Planning Commission which suffers but 
‘it is the States and the people who suffer because, as I said, the Plan is basically the projects 
and schemes which are undertaken by the State Government for the welfare of the people. 
Also, of course, if the Plan does not succeed, then there is no question of adding resources 


or adding schemes. That can only come as extra to what has already succeeded... 
(Interruptions). 


ae भर और ae He और me 2c a 


The hon. Member who spoke last told us some sorrowful tales about dacoits. This is 
something for the State Government to look into because it is a question of law and order. 
But development of the area will help in the solution of the problem. 


Objectives of Fourth Five-Year Plan* 


Sir, the debate itself must have convinced the hon. Members how very difficult it is to 
have a plan that will satisfy all sections of the House. Many of the members have 
themselves replied to most of the points raised by other members. As usual, the criticism 
has been mutually contradictory in many important respects. Perhaps the one point on which 
many members opposite agree is that they emphasise the negative aspect of the plan, that 
is, what has not happened. Very few of them take any look at all at what has been achieved. 


We have, as is not unusual in this House, hon. Members sitting opposite there and Shri 
Masani, who makes a strong plea for the private sector. At first, we were called only fellow- 
travellers, but now we have been pushed even further and we have been coupled with 
Marxists, including my good friend, Dr. V.K.R.V. Rao and others. 


ae aie और मर अर मर me aie aK 


At the other end there are some of our hon. friends sitting on that side who have linked 
us with the capitalists and who are for much greater control. On one side they want abolition 
of controls and on the other side they want greater control and they see a curtailment of 
the public sector in the present Plan. At the same time, from our side many constructive 
suggestions have been made and some from the other side also. 


It is an indication of the rising frustration of the Swantantra Party that one of their 
older members, the first speaker, should have descended to abusive and strong language. 
I shall not tire the patience of hon. Members by referring to some obviously misleading 
and fatuous remarks. Hon. Members from the otherside have never hesitated to criticise 
the Government in the strongest possible terms. We are well able to look after ourselves 
and do not object to such criticism; however, it is not in the tradition of the House to criticise 
those who are unable to defend themselves here and, if I may say so, I thought it was in 
bad taste to mention the Deputy Chairman and members of the Planning Commission by 
name and to make regrettable personal attacks in such unrestrained language. 


It is typical of the hon. Member, Sir, that of all animals he should have chosen to allude 
to the mule. His reference was in terms of popular uninformed prejudice rather than the 
real qualities of the animal. I must admit that I used to speak of the mule in rather the 
same language myself until I had occasion to go to Bhutan with my father and to ride the 
mule for five to six days crossing four very high ranges of the Himalayas. The manner in 


* Replying to the debate on the Motion regarding the Draft Fourth Five-Year Plan, L.S. Deb., 12 May, 1969, 
cc 286-97. 


395 


which the hon. Member spoke about it is the proof that he has approached the Fourth Plan 
and indeed the very question of planning with a closed and prejudiced mind. Does Shri 
Ma§sgani not know that the mule has been of invaluable help to our army over the years...... 


a कं मु ae मंद a me aie a 


This animal has proved to be a strong dependable creature, steady, sure-footed and 
advancing towards the set goal, along difficult and steep tracks which are too difficult for 
any other animal or mode of transport. All over the world the mule symbolises hard work, 
strength, dependability and dogged determimation. 


The hon. Member once again introduced into this report, his own argument about what 
kind of planning we should have in this country. He wanted us to adopt indicative planning 
as it exists in France. A reply to that has been made but, nevertheless, I would like to say 
that it may be an example of planning suited to an economy which is industrially highly 
developed and the central structures of which remain capitalistic. The hon. Member is a 
widely read person and he should have read—perhaps he has deliberately chosen to ignore 
such reference in this House-that there are also French planners who have indicated that 
their model is not necessarily suitable for developing countries which are faced with 
multiple problems such as we have in India. 


There is today a large measure of common ground in the techniques of drawing up 
plans and in the methods of executing them. While, on the one hand, there is recognition 
that market mechanisms, decentralised decision making and indirect controls have their 
value, on the other hand, there is increasing willingness to acknowledge the utility of control 
and public action which were formerly considered to be an anathema. Now, planning does 
not permit of any wholesale and unthinking importation of foreign models, whether of 
one kind or another. Planning has to take into account our own condition, our own 
circumstances and, as one of our members said just now, the genius of our own people. 
Our planning has to be, and it shall be, Indian planning. We do not follow either the Soviet 
method or the French or any other method. 


aK मंद मेष mt मर ak a भर अर 


The nature of Indian Planning is unique and pioneering in its wake, because we were 
the very first to attempt planning within the framework of parliamentary democracy. No 
other country, large or small, which is following our political system, had undertaken any 
such effort, when we embarked on planned economic development in 1950-51. 


2k मर ae ae मं ak 


We have made progress in the past 18 years despite our very special circumstances— 
Firstly, there is the democratic set up which rules out authoritarian methods, the federal 
set up and sub-continental dimensions of the country calling for reconciliation of Centre- 
States point of view, the problems of far-flung areas, problems of disparities in levels of 
development between regions etc. and, of course, the growing population which does erode 
the fruits of progress. Then, there were exceptional difficulties, for example, the Chinese 


aggression of 1962, two successive aggressions and two years of unprecedented drought. 
While I have the greatest respect for Acharya Kripalani, I do not think that anybody could 
have anticipated these developments. It is true that we have been having drought in India 
in one part or another for many years. But the sort of drought which we experienced in 
the last two years we have not had in India for over a hundred years. It was something 
which was entirely unprecedented in nature and unknown here before. So, one should not 
take these things lightly. These are realities which cannot be ignored, however much it 
may suit some of us to do so. 


Defence expenditure alone had to be stepped up from a little over Rs. 300 crore a year 
to over Rs. 1,000 crore a year. In five year period this meant an unavoidable and inescapable 
diversion of very scarce resources to the extent of Rs. 3,500 crore. Similarly, in two years 
of drought we lost something like 30 million tonnes of food and the impact of this major 
set back should be well-known to hon. Members of the Swatantra Party, because when 
that impact was felt only last year, the representatives of industry were amongst the loudest 
to demand sizeable increases in the public sector outlay so as to broaden the demand for 
their products and to sustain them through the recession. These are hard facts and realities 
which we simply cannot ignore. 


The hon. Member used certain figures, rather selectively, in an attempt to show that 
people have become poorer. Now, had he taken the base year 1950-51, a year before the 
commencement of planning, and worked out changes in 1967-68 over the base year, he 
would have presented a different picture. To present the case in perspective, may I cite a 
few figures ? 


As compared with 1950-51, in 1967-68 the per capita availability of foodgrains 
increased by 16 per cent, of edible oils by 18 per cent, of cloth by 37 per cent, of sugar by 
43 per cent and of coffee by 40 per cent. This has taken place despite a large addition to 
our population. The annual rate of increase in population has gone up from 1.25 per cent 
in the First Plan to 2.5 per cent in recent years. Much as one appreciates the thoughtfulness 
of those who have not added to the population, I might say, some of the increase is not 
due to the efforts of individuals but is due to certain health measures, that is, substantial 
fall in the mortality rate by 45 per cent and increase in the longevity of life. This is no 
mean an achievement and cannot but be attributed to our planned efforts. 


The question which has distributed many Members here, and as mentioned by Acharyaji 
also, is the question of our debts and in particular why we should ask for re-scheduling of 
debts. But this need arises from the same consideration as the need for fresh foreign loans 
or direct foreign investment, that is, the imbalance between exports and imports. This is 
one way and a very effective way of reducing our obligations in regard to our debt 
payments. The justification for debt relief derives from the fact that large proportion of 
our export earnings is now being required to meet the debt burden, leaving insufficient 
foreign exchange for our necessary imports. It is recognised today by all developing 
countries that they need substantial foreign aid in the transitional stage of development to 
be gradually reduced and, finally, eliminated once the imbalance in foreign trade has been 
corrected. It is also widely recognised that foreign loans should carry very low rates of 


397 


teeth Tater ete 
Cee eaten 


a a 5 आह ee 


interest and that the period of repayment should be long. However, a fair proportion of 

“oyr earlier loans carried a relatively high rate of interest with a relatively shorter period of 
paymeni. This has put considerable strain on our balance of payments at a time when our 
export Capacity is not high enough to bear the burden. The negotiation for re-scheduling 
is primarily to gain some relief in this matter and it has the effect of easing the burden of 
old loans as well as new ones so that the needs of developing countries are better met. 


Acharyaji said something about our old tradition of begging. But today this is not old 
tradition but a contemporary situation which does not apply merely to us or to other 
developing countries like us. It 1s something which is also faced by the developed and 
advanced countries. In fact, there 1s not a single country in the world which does not face 
it. Developed countries seek debt relief though camouflaged in different forms. 


There has been great hardship, of course, by the rise in prices and I would be the first 
to admit it. It is not something which we can ignore or which we can gloss over. But it 
has to be seen in perspective, between 1950-51 and 1964-65, the price levels had risen at 
an annual compound rate of 2.5 per cent in India and this compares favourably with many 
other countries. It is only since then that there has been a sharp rise in prices due to the 
unprecedented drought and the consequent decline in agricultural production. With the 
improvement in agricultural production, a measure of stability in prices is being restored. 
This stability will be maintained in the Fourth Plan in view of the emphasis on agricultural 
production and building up of buffer-stock of foodgrains. 


Many Members have spoken about the outlay on agricultural production not being 
sufficient. The other day, when I was talking about our increased emphasis on agriculture, 
some Members raised unnecessary doubts as to how the figures I gave compared with the 
corresponding figures in the Third Plan. 


I have indicated that, if one were to put together all the direct as well as indirect outlays 
on agricultural production, one would arrive at the figure of Rs. 4,606 crore, constituting 
32 per cent of the total outlay in the public sector. In a sense, even this figure does not 
fully reflect the investments contemplated in the Plan for the augmentation of agricultural 
production. To give just one instance, we should further include a portion of the investment 


on the generation and transmission of power which relates to agricultural production 
programmes. 


Coming to the earlier Plans I should like to say that, according tc a detailed analysis 
of the Planning Commission, the corresponding or comparable outlay on schemes benefiting 
agricultural production in the Second Plan was of the order of Rs. 1,278 crore or 26.6 per 
cent of the public sector outlay. The comparable figures for the Third Plan are Rs. 2,112 
crore or 28.1 per cent of the total outlay. 


It is thus clear that greater emphasis has been laid on agricultural production as 
compared with the earlier Plans, and investments have been substantially increased both 
__ in absolute terms and as percentage of the total outlay contemplated in the Fourth Plan. 


We should also remember that a significant portion of the increase in incomes accruing 
in the agricultural sector will remain in private hands and will be utilised for investment 


ऊन, re 
बा डा. 


Pee. 


Soe 


eae 


B oe ८20४०. 


५222 


OTT 
ES ८०००८24050 2८० 


पट, 


a5 a 
32222 


ये 


so. 


SRP eee ne 
Sottero tanner 
o ne cea 122 
अं ० 


sare} 


in agricultural improvement. The Fourth Plan estimates such direct investments in 
agriculture and allied programmes in the private sector at Rs. 1,800 crore as against only 
Rs. 800 crore in the Third Plan 


If we take a composite view of the outlays in both private and public sector it will be 
clear that the Fourth Plan accords a higher priority to allocation of resources for agricultural 
development as compared with the Third Plan. 


Many Members also expressed concern about the comparative neglect of the needs of 
the rural areas in our Plan and have called for a shift in bias from the urban to the rural 
areas in our strategy of economic development. Development outlays in many sectors such 
as power, transport and communications benefit the national economy as a whole. It will 
be difficult to apportion the benefit as between rural and urban areas. However, we have 
already indicated that the new Plan attaches greater importance than the earlier Plans to 
agricultural production which constitutes the sheetanchor of rural economy. From a quick 
analysis of the programmes and the social services such as education, medical relief, public 
health and welfare, and welfare of backward classes, benefiting the rural areas, taking to 
the outlay on agricultural production and other related programmes and the rural component 
of social services, is seen that the public sector outlay in the Fourth Plan benefiting the 
rural areas will be of the order of Rs. 5,666 crore. This will constitute 39.3 per cent or 
very nearly 40 per cent of the total public sector outlay in the Fourth Plan. A very substantial 
portion of the outlay on the building of economic overheads such as power, transport and 
communications is not included in this figure because of the difficulties of apportionment. 
The comparable figures for the Third Plan are Rs. 2,560 crore or 34.1 per cent, and for 
the Second Plan Rs. 1,532 crore or 31.9 per cent. 


Prof. Kabir and some other hon. Members mentioned rural electrification. The provision 
for rural electrification has been increased from Rs. 75 crore in the Second Plan to Rs. 
105 crore in the Third Plan, and for the Fourth Plan a provision of Rs. 363 crore is proposed 
apart from the funds to be made available by the Rural Electrification Corporation and 
other institutions. 


aK a ok fe ac ie ae aie af 


With regard to the position of fertilisers, pesticides and tractors, the provision has gone 
up from Rs. 72 crore in the Second Plan to Rs. 125 crore in the Third Plan, and now to 
Rs. 854.5 crore in the Fourth Plan. The example of pump sets is significant because they 
are directly relevant to agricultural production, just as fertilisers are. The number of pump 
sets which was 5.13 lakhs at the end of the Third Plan is expected to increase by nearly 5 
times that figure to 23.1 lakhs at the end of the Fourth Plan. Therefore, it is not really 
correct to say that the rural areas have been neglected. However, it is indeed true that India 
lives in its 5'/, lakh villages and the true test of development in this country lies in the 
betterment of the rural masses, specially those in the backward pockets and those which 
have been under-privileged in the past. It is not easy to wipe out the disparities or suddenly 
raise the level of those who have been most backward and who have been discriminated 


against in many ways. 


399 


REPOS 
रा 


Special mention has been rightly made of our brethren from the Scheduled Castes and 
‘Scheduled Tribes. Every effort is now being made to help them and to see that although 
the disparity cannot immediately be bridged, at least it should be lessened and they should 
be given better opportunities to move ahead. 


An hon. Member spoke of the public sector enterprises as laggards and drones. I do 
not think that this description 18 at all justified. The present investment in Central 
Government industrial and commercial enterprises over 80 in number is of the order of 
Rs. 3500 crore. Out of this the investment in 55 running concerns including Hindustan 
Steel accounts nearly to Rs. 3200 crore. During 1967-68 these enterprises showed a profit 
of over Rs. 48 crore. Substantial profits were earned by Indian Oi] Corporation, Hindustan 
Aeronautics Ltd., Fertiliser Corporation of India, Oil and Natural Gas Commission, Bharat 
Electronics Ltd. as well as 25 other corporations. Many enterprises have declared dividends 
ranging from 5% to 15%. However, it is true that 24 public enterprises showed a net loss 
of Rs. 35 crore. Government are not at all complacent about the situation and are fully 
aware of the great need to improve the working and profitability of these undertakings. 
Some points were made about the appointments of experts rather than bureaucrats. The 
old policy is being changed and we are going in this direction. We are trying to use expertise 
and knowledge wherever it may exist. 


I am rather sorry to see that some attempt was made to try to bring in a north-south 
element in this debate. I would like to assure my hon. friend opposite that the distribution 
of Central assistance is made on the basis of objective criteria arrived at by consensus 
among the Chief Ministers themselves. Tamil Nadu was represented at this meeting by a 
Minister, Shri Madhavan.The consensus formula was proposed by the Chief Minister of 
Kerala and seconded by the Chief Minister of Maharashtra and agreed to by all as the 
best possible in the circumstances. Within the framework of this formula, there was hardly 
any scope for the exercise of discrimination against the States. Only 10% of the Central 
‘assistance was left to be distributed among the States with reference to special problems, 
and subjective judgment was involved in the distribution only of this amount. Now perhaps 
the hon. Member will be interested to know that Tamil Nadu is one of the few States which 
will have a significantly larger Fourth Plan than its Third Plan. 


Tamil Nadu will, in terms of aggregate outlay be the third biggest. The only two States 
which will have bigger plans are Maharashtra which has a strong resource base and U.P. 
with nearly 2'/, times the population of Tamil Nadu. Tamil Nadu shou.d therefore not have 
any special grievance—apart from the general grievance of all States and all Central 
Ministries that the Plan should be larger. 


Some questions were also asked about Central assistance. As I have said on a previous 
occasion, the Central assistance will be released in terms of block loans and grants under 
broad heads of development and will not now be tied to specific schemes. 


There was one very important point made regarding employment and practically all 
Members rightly showed their concern. This morning as you are aware, Sir, a deputation 
of the Samajvadi Yuvuk Samaj met me. This deputation was accompanied by some hon. 


§ 


x 522 


¢ ३1०2 INC 
व, x ae 4 
24027: 122 
oe 5 ace 
34340 ER ere CoP aR न 


ea eee 


27. 


Members. They presented a Memorandum and they wanted Government to do more to 
solve the unemployment problem. In fact they asked for a Commission to be set up to 
study the problem, and also suggested some other steps. 


As I explained to them and as I have said already in this House, we are very deeply 
concemed about the unemployment problem and it is an anxiety which we share with every 
parent, with every teacher, in fact, with every young person. Some of the more acute forms 
of educated unemployment are directly related to recession. But, on the whole, the problem 
is the result of growth of general education at a faster rate than of the economy as a whole. 
The House knows that the Committee of Experts of which Professor Dantewala as 
Chairman and Professor Raj and Shri Lahiri as Members has been set up to examine certain 
aspects of this important problem : but we need not wait for the report of this Committee, 
because our entire approach to development has had a deliberate employment bias. 


We have not been advocates of big machinery for agriculture but have emphasised the 
use of small implements by the small farmers and agriculturists and workers to help new 
trades and the small enterpreneurs as for the land army, and this is one of the proposals of 
the Memorandum. I myself have always been attracted by the idea but I feel that it will 
need to be very carefully considered in its practical and other aspects. 


I have told the Members who came to see me that we will certainly give consideration 
to the suggestions which they have made. Some of them are already being looked into in 
depth. 


My hon. friend from the Jan Sangh wanted a Swadeshi Plan. The hon. Member knows 
that this is an aspect which 1 have been stressing all along, even before the Draft Outline 
came out. I feel that the Plan is already swadeshi in that it puts the whole emphasis on 
self-reliance. The net foreign aid in the Fourth Plan will only be 8% of the total investment. 
The Plan also seeks to put a stop to the import of foodgrains on concessional terms within 
two years. 


The Plan lays emphasis on the role of developing machinery and equipment as also 
domestic know-how and expertise. 


I think it is rather unfair on the part of the hon. Member opposite to say that Delhi has 
been specially discriminated against. As he rightly pointed out, all of us are very much 
concerned with the development of Delhi, but in this particular situation, everybody is 
discriminated against in a manner of speaking, because of our lack of resources. 


Now, several Members have drawn attention to the needs of various areas and different 
classes of people. It is natural that each Member should draw attention to the special needs 


of his own State. 


We are very conscious of the lacunae in the Plan and the needs to help each State. 
Each State feels that if it could have morc irrigation, it could feed the whole country, if it 
had certain industrial schemes, it could provide employment to vast numbers and they are 
right in thinking so. With all our sympathy with these demands and aspirations, it is not 


401 


possible to provide for all the desirable things which need to be done. The Plan is a design 

-Of development which has to define objectives very selectively, and formulate measures 
which must be adopted to realise these objectives. While the goals are important, the means 
to realise them are not less important. We have heard a lot about how many more necessary 
things should be done, but not so much thought has been given nor are steps proposed for 
the achieving of these objectives. In the months and years ahead, Parliament will have the 
Opportunity of discussing these measures. One of the hon. Members said that the time here 
was much too short. We want the entire country to discuss these questions... 


ae के ae a ae aie 2 ae 


As we have said, the Plan will be reviewed from year to year and certainly if anything 
can be added to it or new programmes be taken up, there will be no hesitation in doing so. 


The Plan must lead the country forward with greater vigour and determination to its 
goal of a more prosperous and economic order. Sir, the venarable Acharya ended his speech 
by saying or by asking : where is the country going? I do not know about the hon. Members. 
But I personally have no doubt at all... 


a मर ae $k मै मर मंध भर 


It is going towards progress and prosperity and towards lessening of disparity. But the 
journey is hard and long and it 1s going to take courage and determination and co-operation 
of all of us together...(/nterruptions). It is upto Shri 2100 Mody to find out what kind of 
Government can have the people’s support. But I doubt very much if it is his Party. 


me ae मु He 3c a me a a 


* As I said earlier, I beg to move : 


“That the Fourth Five Year Plan, 1969-71 (Draft), laid on the Table of the Rajya Sabha 
on the 28th April, 1969, be taken into consideration.” 


Madam, I have pleasure in initiating this discussion because we always welcome the 
opportunity to get the advice of the House on important documents before us. The draft 
Plan has been before the country for some time now and our object is to secure not only 
the widest publicity for the Plan which 1s a national Plan but even more important to have 
a wide public discussion and appreciation of its basic objectives, priorities and programmes. 
As the hon. House knows, the implementation of the Plan began on April Ist. However, as 
I announced on another occasion, as we go along and more especially after the Planning 
Commission has reassessed the resources position in the light of the Report of the Finance 
Commission suitable adjustments may be made and in this process the views which are 
expressed here in the House in the N.D.C. and the other forums will naturally be kept in 
view. 


Whenever we have a debate of this kind, it normally assumes a set pattern which has 
become familiar to us; but recently we have seen a slight shift in the position of some of 
the parties, who did not previously approve even of the process of planning. Today we 


* Moving the Motion on the Fourth Five Year Pian, R.S. Deb., 13 May, 1969, cc 2644-51. 


402 


find that some approve of planning but do not approve of this particular plan; others are 
for what might be called indicative planning. Similarly we have our other friends opposite 
who think of their own favourite alternative strategy. The House is aware that ours is the 
first country which has taken to this kind of planned economic development in the 
conditions of parliamentary democracy. We have therefore to take along with us people of 
widely differing, in fact sometimes diametrically opposed points of view. That is why it is 
not possible for the Plan to be an ideal Plan. We cannot suit the desires, or, I may say, 
even the needs of all the people. The Plan must take all these viewpoints broadly into 
consideration yet keep its objectives clear. Our own approach is unambiguous. We do not 
believe that planning is a piece of equipment which can be taken from any one country 
and transplanted into our soil. Our plans have to be Indian plans, routed in Indian soil and 


nurtured by Indian thought. We seek Indian solutions to our problems. Therefore our 


planning has to take into account our own conditions and circumstances. Also of course it 
has to take into account not only the elements of our strength but also the elements of our 
weaknesses. 


Now this Plan has sought to emphasize our objective of swadeshi or self-sufficiency. 
This is reflected in the aim to completely stop imports of foodgrains in two year’s time, to 
bring down the net foreign aid to half the present level and thirdly to emphasize the 
development of indigenous designs and consultancy organisations. There is sometimes a 
misleading impression in the public mind as to the extent of our reliance on foreign aid. 
We must realise that although foreign aid is important and it has helped us in times of 
difficulty, the fact remains that our Plan is predominantly a national effort which 1s 
undertaken with the help of our own resources. The net foreign aid in support of the Fourth 
Plan is matched by another Rs. 21,900 crore or so of our own resources. Thus foreign aid 
will supplement domestic savings only to the extent of 8 per cent in the Fourth Plan. This 
is a Significant reduction from the 25 per cent in the Third Plan. 


We are also anxious to give full and free play to Indian scientific and technological 
talent. This question is constantly before us. I know there are Members in this House who 
take a special interest in this matter and I have also been trying to see in what ways we 
could remove the difficulties which face our young scientists. Only yesterday I was 
conferring with some of them and I know that Dr. V.K.R.V. Rao is also giving serious 
thought to this matter and is having a number of meetings in this connection. We feel that 
our scientists and technical people are among our most valuable Plan resources and we 
have reason to be proud of their achievements. We should try and use their talent and 
capacity to the full. Self-reliance is necessarily linked with self-sufficiency in food 
production. The present trends also point to the possibility of self-sufficiency in the Plan 
period. Agricultural production is poised for a break-through. In fact, our experts and outside 
experts tell us that a break-through in wheat has been substantially achieved. Research on 
rice, which is the most important cereal crop, is also being intensified. Our farmers are 
responsive to new ideas and new techniques to an extent which was not visible before. 


Investments in rural education and the infrastructure in rural areas are now beginning 
to be felt and to pay off. The Plan lays increased emphasis on agriculture and related sectors. 
Nearly a third of the total outlay in the public sector in the Fourth Plan has a bearing on 


403 


agricultural development. The Plan also recognises the overriding importance of rural areas 

_in our economy and pays special attention to the fulfilment of the needs of rural areas in 
such fields as water supply, roads and electricity. A quick estimate has shown that 40 per 
cent of the outlay will directly benefit rural areas, exclusive of the investments and 
programmes which benefit the national economy as a whole, and in which it is difficult to 
apportion what part of it goes to urban areas and what part to rural areas. 


A matter which has been of deep concern to the Members of the House and to all of 
us is the question of imbalances in regional development and, therefore, we have to take 
Care to see that the benefits accruing from increased agricultural and industrial production 
are as widely dispersed as possible. Imbalances in the development of different States and 
regions must be rectified as soon as possible and that is why it is necessary for the 
Government to have positive intervention to counteract the operation of natural economic 
forces. It is proposed to initiate an action-programme comprising a package of measure 
aimed at redressing regional imbalances on the basis of the Wanchoo Committee’s Report, 
soon after the Chief Ministers have expressed their views on this Report. This Committee, 
as hon. Members know, was to look into the whole question of regional imbalances and 
say what concessions should be given through central financial institutions, what incentives 
for industries in the rural areas and what disincentives to industries in the metropolitan 
areas should be given. The objective is to give every part of this large Union the feeling 
that it gets a fair deal and that it has a sense of involvement and commitment to the Plan, 
because any country’s strength cannot be more than that of its weakest link. It must be 
our endeavour to give special assistance to areas which have lagged behind due to historical 
and other reasons and also to those sections of the people who have been under-privileged 
as these brothers and sisters of the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes. I am fully aware 
that it is not possible in the period of one Plan to make any substantial difference, but 
certainly a big step forward can be taken and that is what this Plan attempts to do. 


al 
A 
af, i 


2202 


wee er ows 

ons 2:22 2५44%2९ 
27202: 
PRN eS 


2 


4 पट 
es Bes 


Seca: 
| oF 
2720 ec 
Sars 

its 


The other question which is of great concern and the foremost and most important 
problem which confronts us is that of unemployment. Government fully shares the concern 
which is expressed here and outside and we are most anxious to find not only immediate, 
but also a long-term answer. This problem 1s two-fold viz., the problem of unemployment 
in the rural areas and the problem of the educated unemployed, especially engineers and 
technical personnel. A Committee of Experts is engaged in examining certain aspects under 
the Chairmanship of Prof. Dantewala and Prof. Raj and Prof. Lahiri as Members. Various 
other suggestions made by hon. Members in the House and outside are being closely and 
carefully examined and everything possible will be done, but here also sometimes 
misconceptions arise. The unemployment problem really does not admit of a separate 
solution outside the Plan for the overall development of the national economy. In a sense, 
one of the objectives of the Plan is to provide employment in every sector and inevitably 
the sizable investment into the agricultural, industrial and other sectors will provide 
employment in various forms, direct and indirect. 


Another misconception which is often put forward, is that there has been no growth 
of employment opportunities in these last few years. Now, it is true that the problem of a 
growing labour force and a still widening gap between it and available job opportunities 


is a real one, but it is not correct to say that there has been no growth in employment 
opportunities. In the Third Plan period the average annual growth rate of employment 
opportunities was 6.8 per cent. Employment in the organised sector increased from 12.1 
million at the end of 1960-61 to 16.2 million at the end of 1965-66. If we look at the figure 
sector-wise, indicating the rise in job opportunities in certain sectors between 1961 and 
1968, it is as follows : In trade and commerce by 112 per cent; in power and supplies by 
53.8 per cent; in the manufacturing sector 31 per cent; in agriculture and related sectors 
29.4 per cent. In the public sector alone it rose between 1961 and 1968 from 5.2 million 
in 1956 to nearly twice that figure i.e. 9.8 million last year. Now I do not want at all to 
suggest that this problem is not serious or important or minimise it, but we must look at 
this problem, as at other problems, in their perspective. In the long run the answer does 
lie in a faster and self-sustaining growth of our economy and that precisely is the underlying 
objective of the Plan. 


On the question of unemployment most people are agreed, but the point of controversy 
is that of the public sector. The public sector will play a key role in the fulfilment of the 
objectives which we have in view. It aims at a reduction of income and regional disparities 
and substantial investments in these undertakings have given the public sector a 
commanding role in certain lines of production, i.e., steel, heavy engineering, electrical 
equipment, fertiliser, etc. An efficient and expanding public sector 1s the only effective 
answer to the problems of monopoly and concentration of economic power in the private 
sector, which we are committed to deal with. Now, the public sector has come जा for a 
great deal of criticism. It is constantly in public view and therefore all its deficiencies and 
shortfalls are immediately visible and exposed while a similar deficiency in the private 
sector escapes notice. A number of units in the public sector such as Indian Oil, Oil and 
Natural Gas Commission, Fertiliser Corporation, etc., have done well, and their 
achievements deserve to be more widely known. The public sector has also now begun to 
make a significant contribution to our export effort. Of course we are fully conscious that 
in some other areas it is not doing so well. We know the causes. These have been studied 
and pointed out to us and we are making every attempt to see how we can improve the 
performance and make up for the time lost. 


The aim of this Plan is to improve the efficiency of the public sector enterprises so as 
to generate larger resources for the expansion of social services such as education, medical 
relief and public health, which alone can concretise the benefits of the Plan for the common 
man and give substance to our conception of a more egalitarian society in which the needs 
of the under-privileged sections are met in a more ample measure than has been so far. 


Madam, I commend the Plan to the consideration of the House not because I think it 
provides all the answers to all our problems but because I am convinced that it will take 
us forward nearer to our goal of self-reliance. But even self-reliance is not the ultimate 
goal. It is our target for the coming decade. Beyond self-reliance there are so many other 
things to be done before poverty can be really conquered and our people, the poorest and 
the weakest of them, can be assured of a proper place in the sun. No single Plan, no single 
programme can achieve this. It involves long and hard work. I think hon. Members are 
aware that the path to prosperity is not a magic carpet journey and also that in the last few 


405 


years we have faced specially difficult situations. Some people are apt to speak of it lightly 
‘and say that we blame everything on the drought or everything on the fighting on our 
borders, but these were exceptional and unprecedented-events which could not have been 
foreseen in any measure and they really set us back a great deal, but in spite of that we 
have made headway. One of the points which is constantly being put is—I have replied to 
this point in House but I would like to say again—this question of plan holiday. As I said 
earlier, neither planning nor progress came to a halt during these year while we had the 
Annual Plans because these Annual Plans witnessed appreciable progress in several fields 
such as agricultural production, major irrigation, power generation etc. They also took us 
some steps forward in the direction in which we wished to go. Now we have to continue 
on this journey building our road. We have nobody to show the road to us. In fact there is 
no road. We have to make the road as we go along breaking stones, removing obstacles 
and making the journey perhaps a little easier for those who will follow behind us. I am 
not going into all details just now, Madam Deputy Chairman, because I think after the 
Members have had an opportunity of expressing their views, then I will be able to deal 
with the points which they raise. 


ec मंद भर 2 ak ok Ok 


*Madam Deputy Chairman, most of the substitute motions, in fact practically all the 
substitute mations which have been moved are in the name of Mr. Bhupesh Gupta who is 
now walking out of the Chamber. 


भर मंद मै af ai af 2k ak 


It does not matter at all**. (Interruptions) Anyway, perhaps he does not want to hear 
any refutation of the views he has placed before the House. 


There are some others, but 103 are in the name of Mr. Bhupesh Gupta. About six or 
so are in the name of Dr. Bhai Mahavir and one in the name of Mrs. Paranjpye. 


Now, one of the important points which Mr. Bhupesh Gupta made and which was also 
stressed by other Members was the question of tthe so-called Plan holiday. I had thought 
that I had spoken on this at great length on previous occasions, but since it has been raised, 
I would like to put the fact before the hon. Members which is that there was no Plan holiday. 
It is true that the Fourth Five-Year Plan has begun only on the Ist Apmil of this year, but in 
the interim period, we had three annual Plans which were taking us forward from the Third 

Plan towards the Fourth Plan. This was not a period of resting or falling back, but on the 
contrary a period in which we advanced further. Our pace of development during these 
years was accelerated in some sectors of high priority. For instance while the expenditure 
in Agriculture and allied sectors was Rs. 1,089 crore in the Third Plan, it aggregated to 
about Rs. 1,167 crore in the period 1967-69. Similarly programmes relating to Minor 
Irrigation in particular were increased; the outlay on Minor Irrigation was Rs. 314 crore 


* Replying to the debate on the Motion regarding the Draft Fourth Pive-Year Plan, R.S. Deb., 15 May, 1969, 
cc. 3161-80. 


** The Deputy Chairman, intervened to say, ‘He is coming back”. 


Cains 
Bree 
pees 


during the three years as against Rs. 270 crore in the Third Plan. In the Fisheries sector, 
the amount in the Third Plan was Rs. 22.5 crore, whereas during these three annual Plans, 
it went up to Rs. 37 crore. In terms of physical targets under several heads, the increase in 
production of foodgrains from 72 million tonnes in 1965-66 to an estimated 98 million 
tonnes has been greatly publicised. About 8.5 million hectares were brought under high- 
yielding variety in the last three years. This period also witnessed an upsurge in the 
consumption of fertilisers. There was increase in the utilisation of power. We had only 
about 5,13,000 pump-sets in the Third Plan, but by the end of 1968, this had risen to over 
one million. In all aspects, Madam, during this period there was no holiday but a steady 
advance towards the goals which we have set ourselves. 


मद अंर ak 4a foto 


In the public sector also an investment of Rs. 1,575 crore was made in the field of 
industry and minerals as against Rs. 1,726 crore in the whole five-year period of the Third 
Plan. I have just given these figures to show that there was no plan holiday but that we 
made a notable advance. 


Now, Madam, on a debate like this we usually have opposing points of view. But on 
some points hon. Members from the opposing parties get together and one of these points 
seems to be the question of foreign aid. The spokesmen of the Swatantra Party as well as 
the Jana Sangh have referred to the dependence of our Plans on foreign aid. I did make a 
mention of this in my opening remarks, but I think I can repeat that in the world of today 
there is hardly any country which does not receive aid in one form or another. There is in 
our world much greater interdependence between nations and much greater working 
together. As far as India is concerned, we have received aid from friendly countries and 
from international financing institutions. But if you look at the figure in absolute terms it 
seems large because the country is large but the figure is low ॥ per capita terms, in fact, 
far lower than what many other countries such as Pakistan or Latin American countries or 
many countries in Africa, have received. And foreign aid has not supplanted our efforts. 
That is not the main base on which our efforts are made. It is only supplementing our 
own massive efforts at the mobilisation of domestic resources for development. 


Net foreign aid will constitute only 8 per cent of the investment aimed at in the Fourth 
Plan.* It is true that it was greater earlier on, but as I said ॥ my opening remarks, we are 
making a tremendous effort to try and stand on our own feet. Obviously you cannot do it 
at one stroke. You cannot say, ““We were getting all this and suddenly we will not get it.” 
We are making our efforts, and there is a big difference—from 45 per cent down to 8 per 
cent of the investment. The Swantantra Party, which deprecates dependence on foreign 
aid, on the other hand, looks with favour at the inflow of foreign private capital. While 
we have welcomed foreign private capital in selective fields, we prefer Government to 
Government aid as it is less onerous and gives us greater flexibility in its utilisation in our 


plan programmes. 


* Responding to Shri A.P. Chaterjee’s remark, 15 this foreign aid not 45 percent of our entire public debt." 


० ed 


न ee 


407 


Now, there is a great deal of talk about the rescheduling of debt also and one hon. 
_ Member said that we should hang our head in shame, and similar other dramatic 
pronouncements were made. Madam, this again is. a question which is common to 
practically every country, not only to the so-called poor and developing countries but even 
to most of the developed and affluent countries. There are very very few countries which 
can say that they have satisfactory balance of payments and which are not trying for a 
rescheduling or resettlement of debts in one form or another. In the initial stages of our 
foreign aid programme the terms of some of the loans given to us were comparatively 
onerous both in regard to the rate of interest.and the period of repayment. But today there 
is a greater awareness that aid should be given on soft terms. And it is in line with this 
present thinking that it is sought to make these past loans less onerous and one way of 
achieving this objective is rescheduling. While a significant part of foreign aid is tied, 
repayment is not tied in this manner and has to be effected out of the free foreign exchange 
resources of the free foreign exchange resources of the borrowing countries. So, by releasing 
free foreign exchange resources rescheduling to some extent corrects this asymmetry in 
aid programme. Rescheduling is only one form of providing additional foreign aid and it 
is today recognised as such by the financial institutions and the aid-giving countries. So, 
in a way this rescheduling is more valuable to the receiving countries than fresh aid in the 
sense that the resources saved can be utilised elsewhere in the best interests of the country 
whereas receipts from fresh foreign aid will in most cases have to be utilised for procuring 
goods from the creditor countries concerned. As I said, Madam, there are very few countries 
which do not find it necessary to seek relief in some form or the other from countries which 
are in a surplus position. 


Then, the hon. Member Shn Dahyabhai Patel criticised resort to deficit financing as 
one of the main contributing factors to rising prices. Normally nobody likes to resort to 
deficit financing. But the estimate of Rs. 850 crores made in the Fourth Plan has been 
arrived at in the light of the anticipated growth in national income, the need for further 
activation of the economy and other relevant factors. At this stage it does seem that this 
deficit financing of the order indicated in the Plan will not exert any upward pressure 1n 
prices. The actual amount of deficit financing will, however, be determined carefully with 
reference to the trends in production and other factors from time to time. I might also 
mention that despite deficit financing of about Rs. 260 crore during 
1968-69, this did not create any great pressure on prices. 


A subject that is of interest to the whole country and which is more particularly taken 
up in this House is the question of monopolies. Madam, hon. Members know that two 
paths have normally been followed by most countries of the world with regard to 
development. One is the path of complete control and regimentation. The other 1s the path 
of giving complete freedom to market forces. We all know the difficulties which have been 
experienced in following both these paths. Where there has been this regimentation and 
full control the path has not been easy. It has put a tremendous hardship on the people of 
that country. Similarly where the other path has been followed there has been a different 
type of hardship. That is, in some way it has taken longer to solve the problem, the question 
of poverty has been longer and also greater inequality has been prevalent. So, we have 


डबल बुत ee 1०५ 


very consciously tried to choose a path which is between these two paths to some extent. 
We, therefore, have the weaknesses of both as well as the strength of both. One of our 
difficulties is that we have to function, and not have to, but we have consciously chosen 
the path of persuasion rather than coercion of trying to take as many of the people with us 
as possible, the path of democracy. That by itself, although I believe it is the best path, it 
is the path which strengthens our people as a whole, does create its own difficulties. So, 
we find that trends towards growth in the size of individual units and industrial groups 
are somewhat inevitable under the normal operation of economic forces in an economy, 
which does leave a considerable area for private initiative and enterprise. The increasing 
sophistication of our industries, economies of scale and natural accretion of resources 
through depreciation and other reserves and the plough-back of profits, all these factors 
have given the bigger industrial houses which are already in the field an edge over new 
entrants in regard to access to capital, indigenous and foreign know-how and so on. Now, 
we recognise that this situation of monopoly has arisen in certain fields. What we do now 
is to see, that, having arisen, how we now control the situation. And we have initiated 
various corrective actions to regulate monopolies, in the public interest. This action has 
taken various forms, progressive taxation of incomes and wealth and the expanding role 
of the public sector in crucial sectors of the economy. The Fourth Plan also does not ignore 
the problem of monopolies. On the contrary, it has suggested a series of inter-related 
measures which, if implemented vigorously, will make a definite impact in curbing the 
power of incipient monopolies and mitigate the concentration of economic power. Now 
these things are mentioned in the Draft Plan document, but I would like to repeat. A new 
industrial licence should be given to an industrial house only after assessing its performance 
in relation to earlier licences. Big industrial houses should not be permitted to set up new 
units in relatively common industries, such as for the production of consumer goods. Credit 
policies of financial institutions should be reorientated so that an unduly large proportion 
of financial resources is not directed to the large industrial houses. In the case of industrial 
houses it would be desirable to stipulate that their own contribution in a project should be 
proportionately higher compared to medium-scale or new entrepreneurs. The Plan document 
further proposes that where financial institutions including the LIC have a substantial share- 
holding in a company, they may exercise their full rights including the appointment of 
representatives on the board of directors, and hon. Members know that the Monopolies 
and Restrictive Trade Practices Bill is now before Parliament. The control which big 
industrialists were exercising over policies of the commercial banks through their 
domination in the board of directors has been considerably reduced now, and specific 
directives have been given to banks to see that credit is made available in a larger measure 
for the three priority sectors, that is, exports, small scale industries and agriculture. 
Naturally, we must keep a continuous watch to see how these steps—the steps which have 
already been taken—work out in practice before we decide whether any further measures 
are necessary to-ensure that all these banks and other financial institutions function in active 


furtherance of our social objectives. 
The Draft Plan emphasises that there should be a progressive reduction of disparities 


in incomes and wealth and that to this end the benefits of development should accrue more 
and more to the relatively less privileged classes of society. I think it has also mentioned 


WT waa 


_that the existing scheme of taxation should be made more effective by bringing all taxable 
income and wealth into the tax net. But in a country like ours the realisation of egalitarian 
objectives will depend not so much on the appropriation of the wealth of a few as on the 
enlargement of the earnings of the relatively poorer sections of our society. We can raise 
the income and consumption of the bulk of our population only if we can bring about a 
very big increase in the total national product. And that is why economic growth is a 
prerequisite for the promotion of greater equality. 


The Plan lays emphasis on research in dry farming areas and it embodies programmes 
which will make small farms more viable through the provision of facilities for production, 
for credit, for marketing on a co-operative basis, and also it calls for land reform measures 
so that the elements of exploitation and social injustice in our agrarian system can be 
eliminated. 


We are all aware that the every stability, not only the economic development but the 
very stability of the country depends on the lessening of the tensions which come about 
through these disparities, and therefore we are most anxious about special programmes 
for all the weaker sections—our brothers and sisters of the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled 
Tribes have been mentioned and a very large number of those who are landless—and that 
is why in all our programmes we keep them in view. Hon. Members of course represent 
all sections. But quite often we see that there is the promotion of emphasis on the needs 
of one particular group. But I think that at all times we must first think of these weaker 
sections and how any programme will effect their advancement. But at the same time as I 
said, we cannot help these weaker groups unless the base of the country rises and the general 
level of production rises and mobilisation of resources is improved. Now we believe, 
contrary to what some of our hon. friends opposite of the Swatantra Party believe, that an 
expanding and efficient public sector can provide an effective check against the growth of 
inequalities of income and wealth in a developing economy. And therefore our Plans have - 
assigned an important place to investment in the public sector in the fields of organised 
industries and of mining. 


a ah ae a ah a ae oe af 


In the Fourth Plan investments in the public sector will constitute 60 per cent of the 
total investment in organised industry and mining as against 41 per cent for the private 
sector. The relative position of public versus private sector will not be altered to the 
detriment of public sector by the pattern of investment envisaged. Many Members have 
referred to the fact that the allocation to the private sector has been increased to Rs. 10,000 
crore in the Fourth Plan as against Rs. 14,400 crore in the public sector. But a great deal 
of these investments in the private sector will be by small farmers and small entrepreneurs, 
and I do not think we can say that these investments will strengthen capitalist forces. 


I am sorry I was led astray by my hon. friend’s interruption earlier on when we were 
tailing about foreign aid. Even in the Third Plan the net foreign aid was 25 per cent and 
not 45 per cent... 


410 डर 


Even in the Second Plan-I do not have the exact figure-even there it was less than 
45 per cent*. 


The hon. Member just now spoke about the efficiency of the public sector. Now this 
is a much beaten horse, if I may put it that way. There is no doubt that there are enterprises 
in the public sector which are not working as they should. We have all gone into the reasons. 
In some cases the improvement has begun. In some cases all the steps which should have 
been taken have not been taken. But we are fully seized of the situation and we are taking 
every step that we can to see that these improvements take place. Now earlier on in another 
discussion I had said something like that the aim of these public sector enterprises is not 
merely to gain profits. I did not by that mean at all that we should not make every possible 
effort to get profits or to make them work efficiently, but only that by their very nature 
some of the items which they produce cannot give a profit immediately. This takes time, 
but this does not mean that we should not move every nerve to see that this improves. It 
is true that because we had started some of these projects for the first time on this scale, 
some mistakes were made. For instance, there are enterprises where too many people are 
employed, but because of the whole system and our laws it is not possible to remove 
anybody from there. So we do face these difficulties. But there do exist a large number of 
public sector enterprises which are making a profit also. And when we look at the public 
sector, we should look at the whole picture and not just take out those that are not working 
as well as they should. 


One of the substitute Motions deals with the question of reorganising trade. The State 
is already playing an increasingly important role in import and export. Through the Food 
Corporation it is also fast acquiring a commanding role in the procurement and distribution 
of foodgrains. State trading in imports has made considerable progress. The share of the 
STC and the MMTC in total imports is estimated to have risen from 4.9 per cent in 1966- 
67 to 7.3 per cent in 1967-68. In fact as regards imports, large part of the economy's 
requirements of food, fertiliser, equipment for Government projects and other stores and 
purchases abroad are directly negotiated by Government and so can be deemed to be outside 
the private sector. In the imports made during 1966-67 and 1967-68 such purchases even 
after excluding the imports made by the STC and the MMTC, accounted for somewhat 
more than half the value of our imports. 


As regards exports those made by the public sector represent a further expansion of 
State agencies. Between 1966-67 and 1967-68 the share of the STC, MMTC and public 
sector enterprises in exports rose from 10 to 15 per cent and we exported goods worth Rs. 
116 crore and Rs. 179 crore respectively during 1966-67 and 1967-68. According to the 
balance of payments information direct imports by the Government in these years 1966- 
67 and 1967-68 amounted to Rs. 1,146 and Rs. 1,258 crore and accounted for 61 and 62 
per cent approximately of all imports during these two years. 


Similarly in the food trade the Food Corporation of India procured in 1961 0.54 million 
tonnes but in 1967 this went up to 4.47 million tonnes and in 1968 it went up to 6.6 million 


* Responding to Shri A.P. Chatterjee’s Question, “What is the present provision?” 


‘ 


at ey 
at 2287 
2170 Seta 7६ 


411 


tonnes. Public procurement in 1967 and 1968 accounted for about a fifth of the marketable 
surplus of foodgrains in the country. During the years of scarcity public distribution of 
foodgrains amounted to as much as half the marketable surplus of the foodgrains in the 
country. We have to remember that much as we desire to eliminate the middle men we do 
not yet have the necessary skills but we are trying to acquire them. 


Now some hon. Members including Shri Krishan Kant referred to the need for making 
a larger provision for education. The provision made in the Fourth Plan is Rs. 802 crore. 
This is exclusive of the non-Plan expenditure which is estimated at about Rs. 550 crore 
every year. Then there is contribution from non—Government sources which would amount 
to about Rs. 150 crore every year. The second educational survey completed in 1965 showed 
that 87.23 per cent of the rural habitations were now served by primary school and it is 
estimated that by the end of the Fourth Plan &5 per cent of the children in the age group 
of 6-11 will get the facility of primary education. I am fully aware that we have not been 
able to keep up to the target which we had envisaged earlier on right in the beginning but 
nevertheless this is a sizable increase. 


-Shrimati Shakuntala Paranjpye has suggested that some of the money allotted for family 
planning should be diverted to education but I think that even where it is used for family 
planning it is education and certainly if all these programmes are better co-ordinated they 
could go much further. Of course I see Dr. V. K. R. V. Rao smiling critically, I entirely 
sympathise with him and with other Ministers who feel that their allotments have been 
drastically, cut, in fact cut to the bone but as the hon. House is aware it is something which 
is hardly in our hands because of the lack of resources. 


Another point which was made by one of the hon. Members I think was connected 
with correlation between national laboratories and national undertakings. I am fully aware 


that this has not been satisfactory but I can assure hon. Members that only yesterday and * 


two days before we have had meetings in the CSIR and we are going very thoroughly 
into these matters and trying to see how these gaps can be bridged and how all these people, 
the Directors of the laboratories, the people in the industry, the people in the public sector 
and also all the other people concerned can be set to working together so that it is not 
dependent on the occasional meetings are held but there is constant dialogue and exchange 
of views so that we know the situation in the country at any given moment, what the needs 
are, what the supply is of know-how, personnel, what progress is made of the pilot projects, 
the position about equipment and that sort of thing, so that the functioning can be much 
more efficient in all sectors of industry as well as agriculture. 


Then there is the question of indebtedness of States and the demand for larger resources 
for the States. It seems strange to me that this matter should be taken up by a person like 
Shri Bhupesh Gupta, who normally one would have thought would expound the concept 
of democratic centralism which stands for larger resources and powers for the Centre rather 
than for the units. 


a a 3 ee ok me गंध मर 


412 है 


This is how we have seen this system working in other places.* 


ak 3k ee ak ee मं 


Madam Deputy Chairman, we know that Mr. Bhupesh Gupta took a fair amount of 
time yesterday. I was not in the House but I heard a large portion of his speech in my 
room. Every now and then I heard him say that he was finishing in one minute but after 
10 minutes he was still speaking. I think he should spare a little time for me now and 1 
will try to meet his point. 


मध्य: मं eo 2k whe ae fe 


The States are facing the same difficulties which I mentioned earlier and which our 
Central Ministers are facing, that is, cut in many of their programmes but none of these 
programmes can be taken up unless the basic structure is strengthened. We want to look 
at all Central programmes with a magnifying glass, if necessary, to see what could be pruned 
and what could be cut. In fact I have given this assurance in the National Development 
Council. We must remember that many of the assets which the States are building up such 
as irrigation, power and so on are made with borrowed funds from the Centre and most of 
the projects which are with the Centre are projects which benefit the States. They do not 
belong to the Centre they belong to the States.... 


we मर मर a Ae मं ae aft afc 


Does the hon. Member want to close any railway line or say there should not be 
development of the railways?** They may not be run by the States but certainly they are 
for the benefit of the people who live in the States. 


a मंद ak 2 ok ak 2 ak ak 


So I feel that instead of wrangling over the problem of readjustment of debt obligations 
we can more fruitfully concentrate our united efforts on increasing the profitability of 
industrial undertakings, irrigation and power projects and I think in this Shri Bhupesh Gupta 
could perhaps take a direct interest and help us. 


me मंद 2 fe ae भर ae ae 


I am not at all talking about States’ debts.*** I am talking about making a united effort 
for increasing the profitability of industrial undertakings in all the States. 


aK 3K मर me मंद मं ae ae af 


It may be easy for you; it may be easy just to draw a line on paper but it 1s not so easy 
if you see the consequences of it to the Centre and to the States.**** As I have just said, 


* Responding to Shri Bhupesh Gupta’s remark, “This is your definition, not mine.” 
** Responding to Shri Bhupesh Gupta's remark, “I hope you won't say the Railways run through the States.” 
*** Replying to Shri Bhupesh Gupta’s observation, “Let us sit together and write off some of the States’ debts. Are 


you ready?” | ; 
**** Replying to Shri Bhupesh Gupta who said, “Writing off is very easy. 


ernie 


413 


we are aware of the need to provide a certain measure of relief to the States and the Finance 
Ministry, along with the Planning Commission, are seized of this problem and they will 
finalise their proposals after we have the Finance Commission’s Report. 


me ae और a मेष afc a गंध ae 


Now, the States’ share of the Central resources has been constantly increasing. *In 1968- 
69, the share of the Central taxes and statutory grants together made available to the States 
was 750 crore as against about Rs. 1160 crore of their own tax revenue. So, the Centre 1s 
vitally interested in assisting the development programmes of the States and will certainly 
try to meet the needs of the States to the fullest extent possible within the available 
resources. Nearly half the total public sector plants falls within the competence of the State 
Governments and the new procedures, which we have adopted, give the States a far greater 
freedom and flexibility in tailoring their programmes to fit their own specific needs and 
conditions. The Plan is a national Plan which calls for a co-operative effort by the Centre 
and the States. 


a, 2 मंद ak ae मं: मर 


T come to the very important subject of unemployment. The hon. Member and in fact, 
all sections of this House have raised this question from time to time and it is just now 
before us in a very vivid way because of the demonstrations taking place outside. Now, 
Madam, I have met some of these young people who had come two or three years ago 


belonging to one party and yesterday I met some belonging to Shn Bhupesh Gupta’s party 
and other parties also... 


ae ah a ae ak ae afc ak ak 


Well, all right, the All-India Students’ Federation, the Bharat Samajwadhi Yuvak Sangh 
and so on. **Now, I sincerely hope that no occasion will arise for the students to come 
into conflict with the police. I am consistently stressing the fact that our police must act 
as friends of the people and not be a force that will threaten or alarm the people... 


ae ate ae 40K a Hot अं 


Mr. Bhupesh Gupta, please, let us agree on this that the police should not provoke the 
students, but equally the students and young people should not provoke the police. 


aK मंध oe ae He मर aK मंद और 


Now, Madam, much as I would like to give specific measures for dealing with this 
question, as I told the young people, who had come to meet me, in the long range 
unemployment can be met only by greater development, both on the agricultural front and 
on the industrial front. This is the only way, but I do agree that the problem is such a serious 
one today that it should be studied in depth. In fact, there are committees studying 1 and 


* Responding to Shri Bhupesh Gupta’s intervention, “The debts of the States to the Centre are Rs. 5,000 crore”. 
** Responding to Shri Bhupesh Gupta’s intervention, “No. no. It is the All-India Students Federation.” 


414 


_ 


He 

‘a fore 

22000: 
ee ; 
Aud 


2233 


all the Ministries are giving it very serious thought as to how we can produce some schemes, 
even though they may not be able to deal with all the unemployed, at least as a token to 
see how some of them can be given some kind of temporary employment, which would 
help to tide them over this period. Now, one of the memoranda given to me yesterday was 
an exceedingly long one. We will certainly go into all the aspects because it deals with all 
kinds of things, with foreign policy and so on, but the memorandum given the other day 
dealt with questions such as the land army. Now, as I said to them and as I would like to 
repeat... 


af भर He ak teak 


The concept of.a land army is very attractive. Also, some of the other suggestions which 
are given, on the face of them seem to be good, but all these things have to be gone into 
from the point of view of practicability. How will they work ? Do we have the necessary 
organisation, the necessary discipline and so on ? I can assure hon. Members that these 
matters will be looked into and if they have any more suggestions, we are willing to look 
into them. 


ak मं भर अर मंद मर ak He ak 


Special or normal, I do not think that makes much difference, as long as the suggestions 
are made and we can go into them.* But certainly our young people, whether they are the 
rural youth, whether they are the educated, technical or scientific youth, they are the best 
resources we have and I fully agree with hon. Members that these resources should not be 
wasted, nor should these young people be allowed to feel frustrated because as we and 
they have a stake in the future of the country, the country has a stake in their future too. 


Now, this Plan is not really an ideal plan, but it does attempt to reflect some of our 
hopes and aspirations and our desire to better the lives of our people. It seeks to increase 
production in every crucial sector, to increase national income and national wealth, because, 
as I said, without more production and more national wealth, there cannot be removal of 
poverty or even a redistribution of national income which could narrow the gap between 
the rich and the poor, which is what all of us desire so earnestly. While there must be 
more production, there must also be, side by side with it, a more equitable distribution of 
national wealth and this cannot be postponed to a later date. Many examples are given 
here of advanced countries, but these are not really relevant to our conditions because some 
of these countries had centuries in which to develop. We have to telescope the process of 
change and progress into a smaller and meaningful span of time. We have to contend with 
a politically conscious people and to meet their just aspirations and rising expectations. 


Now, some people have said-fortunately, 1 think, not in this House— “reject the Plan” 
but at the same time, the same people have gone on to say that such and such thing has to 
be added to this Plan. This is not a very logical way of looking at the Plan. This Plan, 
with all its faults, has started under better auspices than our previous Plans. We have 
certainly got rid of certain shortages which were plaguing our progress earlier, but I would 
like to emphasise, again and again, that no plan of development, no path to progress can 


* Responding to Shri Bhupesh Gupta’s demand, “Call a special meeting to discuss this problem only.” 


415 


be easy. It has not been easy in any country and in our conditions it is going to be specially 
- difficult. The battle of poverty is a far more difficult battle to fight than a battle with arms 
and weapons and. . 


eK मर we a oe a oe 


Even more difficult than the battle of freedom, because by itself the inspiration of 
freedom buoys up the people and gives them enthusiasm, whereas development does not 
mean just one push. It means a very difficult, slow, step-by-step journey. While one can 
sacrifice anything in a spurt of enthusiasm day-to-day routine, labour is certainly more 
difficult. We have found this in all countries. In a country, for instance, which was involved 
during the Second World War, I saw that people were willing to give up everything. They 
were willing to live without adequate food, without light, without everything, but the day 
peace was declared, they were not willing to do the same even though they still needed 
the discipline to build the country after the war, but they felt, “It ‘s now peace time, why 
should we put up with these restrictions ?” It is the same here. The freedom fight does 
involve everybody in a different type of way. What we have to understand is that this is 
still a freedom fight because this is a fight to consolidate our 162. om and to give the kind 
of development, the kind of equality which will strengthen the country as a whole. This 
can only be done if it is not the government alone or the Planning Commission alone which 
is expected to find a magical solution to all problems. But of course we have to mobilise 
the entire nation to hard and sustained work and an understanding of the difficulties. So, 
when I commend this Plan to this hon. House, I would like to invite the hon. Members 
and in fact the entire nation to join us in this exciting, though hard, battle for the good and 
the advancement of the entire people of this country. 


Thank you. 


RS 


४8४८ LOTR OOOO ETERS ene 

5002272772%0227007000000::02260:70% acca RR 22027 
; ४ 

soa 20770: 20007: 21022: 222 ioe npr 


श्र 
५ ay . 
Note wet 
Rae 
2 ":२२६ 4 
5222 22:0५ 
४5०० 
०,1०८” reek 
ua xe 
eee 2०, 
ba LA) 
Be हा 
222५ 


416 


Bank Nationalisation* 


Madam Deputy Chairman...Madam, an Ordinance was promulgated the day before 
yesterday, nationalising fourteen of the major commercial banks incorporated in India. With 
your permission, I should like to share with the House the considerations which weighed 
with Government in taking this momentous decision and the spirit in which they propose 
to implement it. 


Nearly fifteen years ago, Parliament approved that we should set before ourselves the 
goal of a socialist pattern of society. Since then, Government have taken several measures 
towards the achievement of this goal. Public ownership and the control of the commanding 
heights of national economy and of its strategic sectors, are essential and important aspects 
of the new social order which we are trying to build in this country. We regard this as 
particularly necessary in a poor country which seeks to achieve speedy economic progress, 
consistent with social justice, in a democratic political system—one which is free from 
the domination of a few, and in which opportunities are open to all. 


Financial institutions are among the most important levers that any society has at its 
command, for the achievement of its social and economic objectives. It is in recognition 
of this fact that we nationalized life insurance business and the then Imperial Bank of India 
over a decade ago. Since then, we have also, set up in the public sector, other institutions 
for the provision of medium or long-term finance to industry and agriculture. The 
nationalisation of major banks is a significant step in this process of public control over 
the principal institutions for the mobilisation of people’s savings and canalising them 
towards productive purposes. 


After the serious difficulties which we have had to encounter 1n recent years our 
economy in once again poised for fresh growth and development. There has been a notable 
breakthrough on the agricultural front, technologically and otherwise. The increase in our 
exports has been impressive. There has been substantial progress in the matter of power 
supply and the development of transport, as also the availability of trained manpower. Our 
industrial base has been strengthened and diversified. It is in this context that we launched 
the Fourth Plan earlier this year with confidence and determination. 


The question which has been engaging our attention for some time is how best to impart 
an element of dynamism and new vigour into the process of our development so that the 
targets of the Fourth Plan, in the public and private sectors, cannot only be fulfilled but if 


* Making a Statement regarding the Nationalisation of Banks, R.S. Deb., 21 July, 1969, cc. 196-222. 


417 


possible, exceeded. Our major concern has been to accelerate the tempo of investment and 

- production, so as to improve living standard and increase employment opportunities, 
consistent with our determination to achieve self-reliance. It is necessary to mobilise the oe 
savings of the people to the largest possible extent and to uttlise them for productive purpose pe 
in accordance with our plans and priorities. Government believe that public ownership of Fa 
the major banks, for which there has been widespread public support, will help in the most 
effective mobilisation and deployment of national resources, so that our objectives can be 
realised with a greater degree of assurance. 


The Ordinance promulgated by Government provides for the nationalisation of all 
scheduled banks, incorporated in India, which had minimum deposits of not less than Rs. 
50 crore st the end of June last. The fourteen banks in this category, together with the 
State Bank of India and its subsidiaries which already operate under public ownership, 
account for more than 85 per cent of bank deposits in this country. The House will 
appreciate that in view of the very nature of the measure, and also to forestall any possibility 
of manipulations which may not be in the public interest, it was essential to make a swift 
and sudden move which could only be achieved through an Ordinance. The fact that 
speculation about Government’s intentions had assumed an acute phase in the last few days 
rendered it all the more necessary to act without any further loss of time, and in anticipation 
of the approval of Parliament, which will be sought through a Bill which Government 
propose to bring during the current session. 


So far as foreign banks are concerned they provide, by and large, business of a 
specialied nature such as facilitating foreign trade and tourism. The operation of banks of 
one country in another, subject to the laws of the land, is mainly for such purposes and is 
part of an international facility. Our Indian banks also maintain their branches in many 
countries. It has been Government’s general policy to confine the opening of new branches 
of foreign banks to major port towns where their specialised services are needed. Having 
regard to all these factors, Government have decided to exclude branches of foreign banks 
incorporated outside India from the purview of the Ordinance. 


As I stated the other day, his is not the beginning of a new era of nationalisation. 
Whatever the pattern of the economy, it 1s widely recognised that the operations of the 
banking system should be informed by a larger social purpose, and should be subject to 
close public regualation. Government have come to the conclusion that the desired 
regulation and the rate of progress consistent with the urgency of our problems could be 
secured only through nationalisation. 


I should like to reiterate my assurance that even after nationalisation, the legitimate 
credit needs of private industry and trade, big 01 small, will be met. Indeed, it shall be our 
endeavour to ensure that the needs of productive sectors of the economy, and in particular 
those of farmers, small-scale industrialists and self-employed professional groups are met 
in an increasing measure. It will be one of the positive objectives of nationalised banks to 
actively foster the growth of new and progressive entrepreneurs, and to create fresh 
opportunities for hitherto neglected and backward areas in different parts of the country. 
The banks will now be better placed to serve the farmer and to promote agricultural 


418 g 


production and rural development generally. Public ownership will also help to curb the 
use of bank credit for speculative and other unproductive purpose. By severing the link 
between the major banks and the bigger industrial groups which have so far controlled 
them, Government believe that the step they have taken will also bring about the right 
atmosphere for the development of adequate professional management in the banking field. 
Government attach the utmost importance to modern managerial techniques and practices. 


The moneys which depositors entrust to the banks are in the nature of a sacred trust. 
The interests of the depositors of the banks which have been nationalised, will not only 
continue to be fully safeguarded but will now have the backing of the State itself. I should 
also make it clear that the emphasis on priority areas, new entrepreneurs and relatively 
backward areas, will not be at the expense of considerations of economic viability. Only 
thus can we fulfil our obligations to those who have entrusted their savings to us for the 
benefit of the community. But economic viability can still admit of much greater 
resourcefulness in lending to priority areas than has been in case so far. The general public 
already has the experience of the State Bank to show how public purpose and security, as 
well as good return to depositors, can be combined. 


The Ordinance has also provided for the adequate protection of the interests of 
employees of the banks concerned. They have now become employees of a publicly owned 
and socially responsible banking system. This also places on them special responsibility 
towards the community. The success of the programme of nationalisation will, in a large 
measure, depend upon the efficiency, the devotion and the dedication with which they 
perform their daily tasks, and the courtesy and consideration with which they treat the 
constituents of the bank. I hope that all individual employees of these banks and their 
associations will now help in the successful implementation of the step which has been 
taken. 


The Ordinance provides for a scheme of fair compensation for the take-over in 
accordance with a formula which Parliament approved recently, while enacting the Banking 
Laws (Amendment) Act, 1968. The Ordinance provides that compensation will be payable 
in the form of Government securities. 


In order to cause the least possible dislocation in the working of the banks covered by 
the Ordinance, and to avoid inconvenience to the public, it is proposed for the present, to 
retain the identity of each bank in the form of a new corporation. The Chief Executive of 
each bank is now the custodian of the unit concerned on behalf of the Central Government, 
and will be subject to its control and direction. The old Board of Directors in each case 
stands dissolved, and the Ordinance vests the Government with the power to set up 
Advisory Boards in their place. These are interim measures. Change in the structure of 
management may also be necessary; these will be undertaken after the most careful 
consideration. The Ordinance provides for such changes to be made. 


As in other matters of policy, Government have been guided in taking the present 
decision entirely by national interests, and the needs and aspirations of our people. The 
establishment of a socialist society is one of our declared goals, but we have not been 
guided by any doctrinaire considerations. Our sole concern has been to accelerate 


419 


development and thus make a significant impact on the problems of poverty and 

“usemployment, and to bring about progressive reduction of disparities between the rich 
and the poor sections of our people, and between the relatively advanced and backward 
areas of our country. 


I realise that the test of the decision is in its effective implementation. Government 
are determined to take all possible steps to make this measure a success. 


I should like to take this opportunity to appeal to all sections of this House to extend 
their valuable cooperation in the purposeful implementation of this important measure. 


We ae मु ae a a aK i ok 


Madam Deputy Chairman, I can only say that this is a slur,* not on me, but on the 
great Indian people themselves because this demand has been made not a few days back 
but for many years from all sections, practically from all the Indian people, from all parts 
of this very vast country, and if anybody dares to say that these people are guided by 
somebody who live outside, 1 think that this is a slur also on Parliament, because the country 
is governed through Parliament. 


aK Ae a me Ke मर a He ok 


I think all these things can be discussed when the Bill comes forward**. Howerver, I 
would like to say that the performance of the State Bank has certainly been better than the 
other banks. I do not have the full details but they are available for the public in various 
reports and so on. 


As far as the Morarka Committee report is concerned, it had come just two months 
ago. It is under consideration of the Government. It is true that they have spoken about 
expenses. We are looking into it. We will see what can be done about this matter. 


The hon. Members has poken about the word ‘illegitimate’. I have, ॥ the course of 
my statement, also mentioned about speculation and use of money for unproductive 
purposes. It is not a question of anything being illegitimate. But the money could have 
been beter used. That was the whole purpose of the measure of nationalisation. Obviously 
if I thought that it was not a good measure, I would not have taken the trouble to adopt it. 


ae मैप मुठ KK मं ae 2 a 


The answer is self-evident.*** We think that our purpose is served by nationalising 
the banks which have been nationalised. The whole purpose of nationalisaion, as I have 


* Shri Anant Prasad Sharma had earlier drawn the attention of the House to “‘a very objectionable remark’’ made 
regarding the nationalisation of banks in one of the daily newspapers. He read out relevant paragraphs from an 
article in the newspaper in which inter alia was written : “Some times one wonders whether Indira is ruled from 
New Delhi or Moscow”. 

** Replying to the points raised by Shri Lokanath Misra who inter alia said, ‘The Prime Minister during her speech 
said that all legitimate credits would be made available to traders, big or small. Can she indicate a single instance 
of illegitimate accommodation being given...... y 
*** Replying to Shri Godey Murahari who wanted to know, “... Why she did not contemplate complete nationalisation 
of banks, including foreign banks...... ’ 


mentioned in the statement and on other occasions from time to time, is to implement the 
policies properly and to have correct policies for making credit available. 


2 ek ak ak a मर कंध्म॑र 


The hon. Member has unfortunately not listened to the very long statement which 1 
made and, therefore, I have to read out one paragraph all over again for which I ask to be 
excused by the other Members*.... 


I made it very clear when I read out the statement. It says : 


“The fact that speculation about Government’s intentions had assumed an acute 
phase in the last few days rendered it all the more necessary to act without any 
further loss of time...” 


I think this is self-evident. I do not think any instability has been caused. During this 
period I did not have a talk with financial experts, banking experts and so on. This is the 
conclusion which I have come to. 


As regards the power of the Reserve Bank, the Reserve Bank does have considerable 
powers. But obviously we thought that they were not enough for the purpose which we 
had in mind. 


ate ah मर ae i OK we मंद ae 


Madam, this is hardly the time to go into the details of this**, but I would like to assure 
the hon. Member that it 1s certainly our intention to strive our very best to run banks in 
the interest of the country and in the interest of those who have so far not been able to 
avaii of their services. 

me HC अर aK मंद ak ae aie मर 


The whole point of this is to help those people who have not had the facilities before*** 
and I made special mention of trying to reduce the disparities between different sections. 
I think backward communities are included in this. 

ai ae aie ae 24a ac मंद ak 


I know how much this House is interested in various matters which they would like 
enquire into, privy purses and so on****, But I think you will agree that they are hardly 
relevant to the statement which I have made just now. However, with regard to the other 
matters which the hon. Member has raised, I agree with him that it 1s most essential to 
have the right people, people with the right knowledge, efficiency as well as the right 


* Dr. Bhai Mahavir wanted to know as to why had the Government resorted to an ordinance for nationalising the 
banks just one day before Parliament was due to meet. Further he enquired whether the Reserve Bank of India 
did not have sufficient powers to guide and control the banks from the point of view of development. 
** Shri Arjun Arora inter alia wanted to know whether the Government had applied its mind to the manner in which 
the banks would be run in order that they might benefit the people. 
*** Shri B.D. Khobaragade asked, whether credit facilities would be available to people from the backward 
communities. 
**** Shri Banka Behari Das enquired whether nationalisation of banks was going to be the first step for snapping the 
relations that existed between big business and financial institutions. He further wanted to know whether these 
nationalised financial institutions would be freed from the bureaucratic control. 


421 


orientation and attitude in these important posts in the banks. And it is only when we can 
- achieve this that the banks will be able to serve the larger interests fo the country which is 
thie whole purpose of this measure. 


ak a a 2k ak 2 ak ae 


Madam, this is indeed a significant step*, as I have said in my statement, and it can 
only be effective if we keep this point in view that these financial institutions must be run 
with a new spirit not only as far as efficiency goes but as far as social and economic outlook 
goes. And this was the whole purpose of this measure. It is not easy overnight to find new 
personnel or to make these changes. But that certainly will be my effort. And this is 
necessary not in financial institutions only. I may say that in many other directions we 
have not been able to succeed because we have not had sometimes in these institutions or 
at different levels the sort of orientation which is so necessary. But here again it is a question 
of training and it 1s a very complex question which we must handle. 


aE a मं mic afc 2 ae ac 3c 


As far as the association of big business is concerned,** the whole purpose of the 
measure is to break these associations. With regard to giving of credit, it is true that before 
even some of our State-owned financial institutions were not giving credit to the public 
sector. This policy decision was taken even before this measure and we are further looking 
into the matter as to how this whole system can be streamlined. 


It is very generous of the hon. Member to at least say that some bureaucrats are all 
right. As I said, it is a question of giving them the right guidance and giving them the 
right orientation. And I think that if all of us, whether they are bureaucrats, politicians, 
people who are concerned with banks, and bank employees, cooperate together to make 
this measure a success, we will be more successful. * 


2 ak मं ae a मर ork मं 


With regard to the first question I think secrecy should be maintained***. With regard 
to the second, those banks are also subject to general cortrol and I do not think that there 
iS any great danger of this plan being sabotaged by such things. 


ok Ok a oe 2k ate he ak 


* Shri Chandra Shekhar wanted an assurance from the Prime Minister that the Finance Ministry and financial 
institutions would be manned by the people having a forward looking view of the society. 

** Shri Niren Ghosh opined that the Prime Minister should give some direction that the credit resources of the 
banks should not go to feed the big business. He also expressed his worry about the bureaucratic management 
of these banks. 

*** Shri A.D. Mani sought an assurance from the Prime Minister that the secrecy of bank operations would be 
maintained particularly in respect of overdrafts. Secondly, he wanted to know whether the Government would 
prevent diversion of deposits to non-scheduled Indian banks which had not been affected by the Ordinance and 
which were receiving deposits from depositors and which were not being nationalised. 


ere ey ee + 8 


422 


Ido not think there is any danger for the capital to flow from these nationalised banks = 
to the foreign banks, but if there is any such danger, suitable measures will be taken.* me 


With regard to the public sector enterprises, there are some public sector enterprises 
which are not doing well, some are doing well. We have undertaken this exercise to see 
how to improve those that are not doing well. But I do not think this nationalisation of 
banks can be on the same lines, because it is entirely a different type of measure. There it 
is a question of taking up very large projects which may not possibly give quick profits or 
quick returns. This is quite a different thing. Naturally there are many dangers. If it is not 
properly dealt with, not properly staffed and if the right policies are not properly outlined, 
there is the danger that it may not yield the results that we desire. So we are trying to take 
every step so that it yields the fruitful results that we have in mind, and also it serves the 
interests of the weaker sections of-our society and helps us to eradicate or to lessen regional 
disparities. 

HOA मर He मैप मे ee मे 


It is most unfortunate that people try to make political propaganda on each and every 
occasion, whether it is an important subject or not an important subject. But we are fully 
capable of settling our problems within ourselves without any interference from hon. 
Members opposite. 


The Members have all given important and good suggestions, and many of the questions 
have been repeated to which I have already given the answers. There is no doubt that utmost 
and constant vigilance is necessary for all such measures and that we ourselves are fully 
conscious of the need that all those who are concerned with the running of these nationalised 
banks or other public sector enterprises, that one of the essential attributes of such people 
should be the correct social and economic attitude, and it goes without saying that detailed 
steps must be devised and urgently implemented if this measure is to be a success, and 
naturally everybody would like to have a better atmosphere, and I sincerely hope that in 
creating this better atmosphere we will have the full co-operation of the staff and employees 


of the banks also. 


* Shri Dwijendralal Sen Gupta inter alia wanted to know about the steps contemplated to prevent the diversion of 
deposits from the Nationalised banks to foreign banks and medium banks. 


Supreme Court’s Order on the Nationalisation of Banks* 


In response to some writ petitions the Supreme Court has today passed an Order in 
regard to the Banking Companies (Acquisition and Transfer of Undertakings) Ordinance, 
1969. The operative part of the order is as follows : 


“Interim stay in respect of three matters, namely, (1) that the Union of India will not 
appoint pending the hearing and disposal of these petitions any boards of advisors; (2) 
that the Union of India will not remove the chairman of the various banks; and (3) 
that the Union of India will not give any directions contrary to the provisions of the 
Banking Laws Act.” 


Government are advised that the essential provisions of the Ordinance nationalising 
the banks are not affected by this order. Thus, the Order does not affect the vesting and 
the transfer of the undertakings in the corresponding new banks and the allotment of the 
capital of each bank to the Central Government. The ownership of the banks continues to 
vest in the Central Government. The former Boards of Directors also stand dissolved. 


The Order will also not affect the normal functioning of the banks. The first direction 
of the court relates to the appointment of Advisory Boards. In view of this, during the 
interim period, the Reserve Bank would advise the banks as may be appropriate in exercise 
of the power available under the Banking Regulation Act. 


As regards the second direction of the court, there is no reason why the Order should 
affect the willingness or ability of the Chairman/Custodians to perform their duties properly. 


Under the third direction of the court, the Union Government are required to refrain 
from issuing any direction contrary to the provisions of “Banking Laws Act’ which 
presumably, is a reference to the Banking Regulation Act, as amended from time to time. 
The Reserve Bank will take special care to assure that nothing is dor.e which is contrary 
to the public interest or to the interests of the depositors. 


The House will appreciate that in an important matter like this, it would not be 
appropriate for me, at this stage, to say anything more except to assure the House that 
Government will keep the situation under close watch and take whatever steps may be 
considered necessary. 


* Making a Statement regarding the Supreme Coart’s Order on the Banking Companies (Acquisition and Transfer of 
Undertakings) Ordinance, 1969, LS. Deb., 22 July, 1969, cc. 362-64. 


8 बन gts. at ate, ee awa ee wnat eee He News as 1 ar enim बह Ea. के १० कक wid (7 eae ke 005 eked eat Sete) neue 2०३१ ५.२ ६ 
न नबी 
Pe 


Growth with Stability* 


Sir, I rise to present the Budget for the year 1970-71. The annual Budget is the most 
important instrument through which we implement our successive Plans for development. 


Before I proceed to delineate the broad features of our present economic situation and 
of the Budget, I should like to spell out briefly the main ingredients of Government’s 
approach. 


It is generally accepted that social, economic and political stability is not possible 
without the growth of productive forces and the augmentation of national wealth. Also, 
that such growth and increase in wealth cannot be sustained without due regard to the 
welfare of the weaker sections of the community. 


Therefore, it is necessary to devise policies which reconcile the imperatives of growth 
with concern for the well-being of the needy and the poor. Measures have to be devised 
which, while providing welfare, also add momentum to productive forces. Any severance 
of che vital link between the needs of growth and of distributive justice will produce 
stagnation or instability. Both must be avoided. 


The provision of adequate employment opportunities is not just a welfare measure. It 
is a necessary part of the strategy of development in a poor country which can ill-afford 
to keep any resources unutilised or under-utilised. Greater attention to dry farming areas 
is not merely to avoid inequalities in the rural areas. It is also an essential part of any 
programme to achieve sustained increases in agricultural production. Encouragement to 
small enterprises and to new entrepreneurs is vital to build up managerial and 
entrepreneurial talent which is all too scarce today. Without some restraint on urban land 
values and individual ownership of urban property we cannot adequately develop housing 
and other amenities necessary to wrest the maximum benefit from the vast productive 
investments already made in our overcrowded towns and cities. The weaker sections of 
the society are also the greatest source of potential strength. We cannot provide for all the 
urgent needs of society with our limited resources. But a balance has to be struck between 
outlays which may be immediately productive and those which are essential to create and 
sustain a social and political framework which is conducive to growth in the long run. 


ae sa ek a wk मर 


* While presenting the General Budget, 1970-71, LS. Deb., 28 February, 1970, cc. 8-30. 


425 


१ ५० at ० 


Economic conditions in the country at present permit and indeed require a more 
vigorous effort to stimulate growth. During 1969-70, the first year of the Fourth Plan, there 
41s every likelihood of achieving an over-all rate of growth of 5 to 5.5 per cent. The 
modernisation of Indian agriculture is well on its way; and it has led to a substantial 
recovery in industrial production. There has been a welcome increase in foreign exchange 
reserves; and the general level of prices over the past two years has been relatively stable. 
At the same time, it is necessary to set up new capacity in a number of fields in order to 
sustain growing levels of consumption, exports and employment. 


If the opportunities for growth, which are now available, are to be seized fully, the 
Central and State Governments must make adequate provision for developmental outlays 
in the coming year. Private investment in agriculture, small industry and construction has 
been buoyant for some time now ; and there is a revival of interest in investment in 
Organised industry. A decisive increase in Plan outlay in the public sector will also stimulate 
productive investment in the private sector. 


Apart from providing for a significantly higher Plan outlay, the Budget for 1970-71 
makes special provision for a number of schemes which combine an element of social 
welfare with future growth potential. 


It 1s with this positive approach to the problems of growth with stability and social 
justice, that we have sought to give new emphasis and a new sense of urgency to economic 
policy in recent months. The nationalisation of banks, for which there is overwhelming 
support in this Honourable House and the country at large will, I am sure, be soon put on 
a stable footing. The Monopolies Act and the decisions that the Government have already 
taken in the light of the recommendations of the Industrial Licensing Policy Inquiry 
Committee should help to avoid the concentration of economic power and provide 
encouragement to small and new entrepreneurs. At the same time, well established industrial 
companies will be able to participate in the core sector and in industries with export ° 
Orientation. It has also been decided that Government as well as financial institutions should 
assume special responsibility to promote industrial development in selected backward areas. 
The Fourth Plan, as it is now being revised, will take particular care to look after some of 
the urgent socio-economic requirements, such as the development of suitable techniques 
for dry farming areas, greater employment opportunities for landless labour, the adequate 
supply of drinking water and the improvement of urban environment in many of our 
congested metropolitan areas. 


According to Revised Estimates, the deficit at the Centre for 1969-70 is now estmated 
to be Rs. 290 crore as against the Budget Estimate of Rs. 254 crore. The transfer to State 
Governments, on account of their share in Central taxes and duties, has increased by Rs. 
104 crore over the Budget Estimates, largely as a result of the Finance Commission’s award. 
A substantial provision of Rs. 275 crore by way of non-Plan assistance to the States had 
also to be made so as to enable them to carry out their Plan programmes. As a result of 
continued decline in imports, the collection under import duties and disbursements under 
external aid are not likely to come up to Budget Estimates. On the other hand, collections 
under income-tax and non-tax revenues and receipts from market loans will be larger. 


426 


Since several States continue to have gaps in resources, it would be prudent to provide 
in advance for special assistance to them. Accordingly, it is proposed to provide Rs. 175 
crore in the Budget next year to cover the gaps in the resources of certain States since 
otherwise it would be difficult for them to undertake worthwhile Plan programmes. 
Provision for Plan assistance to the States is also being increased from Rs. 615 crore this 
year to Rs. 635 crore next year. If State Governments are able to raise additional resources 
and keep a careful watch on non-Plan expenditure, it should be possible for them to increase 
their Plan outlay from roughly Rs. 950 crore this year to about Rs. 1150 crore next year, 
1.९. an increase of the order of 20 per cent. 


It is proposed to raise Central Plan outlays, including those on Centrally sponsored 
schemes, from Rs. 1223 crore this year to Rs. 1141 crore next year, i.e., by roughly 15 per 
cent. The Centre’s Plan next year provides Rs. 39 crore more for agriculture and allied 
programmes, Rs. 84 crore more for transport and communications, Rs. 31 crore more for 
power and Rs. 28 crore more for social services, including family planning. The Plan outlay 
of the Union Territories 1s also being augmented from Rs. 66 crore to Rs. 76 crore. 


Taking the Centre, States and the Union Territories together, the Plan outlay will 
increase from Rs. 2239 crore in 1969-70 to Rs. 2637 crore in 1970-71, i.e., by about Rs. 
400 crore. At this stage, this represents a substantial effort to accelerate the pace of 
development. In addition to the Plan provisions made in the Budget, institutional finance 
to assist industry and agriculture will also be mobilised on a larger scale next year. With 
the considerable step up in Plan outlay and the increased provision of institutional finance, 
there should be significant increase in employment opportunities in the coming year. 


Programmes of rural development which will be given special emphasis, with the help 
of Plan provisions and institutional finance, are summarised in a memorandum which is 
being separately circulated to honourable Members. This memorandum also outlines some 
of the new initiatives which we propose to take in order to combine growth with a greater 
regard for the welfare of the most needy sections of society. I shall, therefore, refer to 


them only briefly here : 


(a) Special schemes for small farmers are being taken up in 45 districts and research 
on dry farming techniques is being accelerated. 


(b) It is proposed to provide next year a sum of Rs. 25 crore for selected rural works 
programmes particularly in areas which are prone to famine. This provision will be 
outside the Plan and will form part of the amount set aside for drought relief during 


the year. 
(c) An Urban Development Corporation with an authorised share capital of Rs. 10 crore 


is being set up. The Corporation will borrow in the market to supplement its share 
capital and to set up a revolving fund for financing activities, such as slum clearance, 


housing and urban land development. 


(d) A substantial provision has been made in the Fourth Plan for the supply of drinking 
water. I have written to the Chief Ministers that the bulk of this provision should 


427 


aes: 
RRR 
15०४६ 


be used to provide drinking water to those areas which have no easy access to this 
basic requirement rather than to improve existing facilities in bigger towns. 


(e) Tu provide more comprehensive benefits to industrial workers, who are liable to 
pay contribution to the Employees Provident Fund at the rate of 8 percent of their 
pay, it is proposed that a part of the contribution of employers and employees should 
be supplemented by a contribution from the Government to make up a separate fund 
from which family persons as well as a lump sum payment in the event of death 
will be provided. 


(f) The minimum pension as also family pension for Central Government employees 
15 proposed to be increased to Rs. 40 per month. This decision will apply to those 
receiving pension at present as well as to those entitled to pensions in future. For 
industrial employees also, the scheme, to which I referred earlier, provides for a 
minimum family pension of Rs. 40 per month. 


(g) To supplement existing schemes for school feeding and the like, a beginning is being 
made with a programme to meet the nutritional requirements of the age group 0-3. 
A provision of Rs. 4 crore is being made in the Budget for children in tribal 
development blocks and in city slums. From time to time, the programme will be 
extended with the help of specially designed schemes to raise additional resources. 


At the existing rates of taxation revenue receipts are likely to increase from 
Rs. 3587 crore this year to Rs. 3867 crore next year. After allowing for statutory transfer 
to the States, the revenue receipts available to the Centre will increase from Rs. 2965 crore 
to Rs. 3167 crore. Revenue expenditure next year is expected to increase by Rs. 176 crore 
of which Rs. 68 crore is on Plan schemes and Rs. 103 crore on non-Plan items. Total non- 
Plan expenditure has been restricted to the minimum and will increase by about 4 per cent. 


Hon. Members will also be glad to note that the internal resources of public sector 
enterprises, which are available for their expansion, will increase from Rs. 162 crore this 
year to Rs. 202 crore next year. Market loans are estimated at Rs. 162 crore next year as 
against Rs. 141 crore in the current year. Receipts under PL 480 and other food aid, 
including some on revenue account, are expected to decline from Rs. 239 crore this year 
to Rs. 161 crore in 1970-71. Receipts under other aid should be more or less of the some 
order as this year. Taking account of all other items, including the provision for the Plan 
and for special assistance to the States outside the Plan, the capital account will show a 


deficit of Rs. 365 crore. The revenue account is expected to show a marginal surplus of 
Rs. 15 crore. 


With growing prosperity in rural areas, it has become all the more important to tap 
rural savings for further development. Schemes to mobilise savings for a specific purpose 
are likely to have greater appeal. A model scheme of debentures to be issued by State 
sponsored institutions has, therefore, been prepared and it is hoped that rural debentures, 
floated in accordance with the scheme, will be an additional instrument for the orderly 
mobilisation of rural savings. The extension of banking to rural areas will serve the same 
purpose. Even today, our postal system extends to many areas which cannot be covered 


by banks in the near future. The postal system, therefore, also needs to be harnessed for 
greater mobilisation of savings. At present our small savings schemes, including Post Office 
Savings, Bank accounts, offer facilities for savings with a number of tax concessions. These 
tax concessions, however, are not of much interest to the rural population or to low income 
groups, which by and large are not subject to taxation of income. To these groups, a higher 
rate of interest would be more attractive than a lower rate with corresponding tax 
concessions. Accordingly, it is proposed to introduce a new series of time deposits, recurring 
deposits and saving certificates, which will carry higher rates of interest without any special 
tax concessions. The present tax free facilities will also be continued with slightly higher 
rates of interest. The rates of interest on contributions to the General Provident Fund and 
the Public Provident Fund are also being enhanced slightly. I shall have occasion later to 
refer to some changes in our direct tax structure, which are designed to promote higher 
savings. A memorandum giving the full details of all these changes is being separately 
circulated. 


The expenditure proposals for 1970-71 which I have just presented have been aimed 
at Stimulating growth while providing for some measures of social welfare for the less 
privileged sections of the community. The same considerations of growth with social justice 
must govern the manner in which resources are raised to meet the requirements of 
Government. 


In a country like India, where Government assumes the major part of the responsibility 
for the promotion of capital formation, the Government Budget should yield a substantial 
revenue surplus to take care of a part of the needs on capital account. This is all the more 
so at a time when net receipts under foreign aid and concessional imports of foodgrains 
are declining in keeping with our objective of achieving self-reliance in the shortest possible 
time. At existing rates of taxation, the revenue account for 1970-71 will yield only a nominal 
surplus. This ratio of taxation to national income in India is among the lowest in the world 
and over the recent past it has declined from the level of a little over 14 per cent which 
was already reached in 1965-66. There is thus need to enlarge the tax base, so as to meet 
adequately the continuing requirements of growth and social welfare. 


In enlarging the tax base, our first concern must be to ensure that the taxes which are 
already levied are not avoided or evaded by devices which just manage to keep on the 
right side of the law. Accordingly, I have tried to plug some major loopholes in our tax 
system and to withdraw some of the concessions which have outlived their utility. Taxation 
is also a major instrument in all modern societies to achieve greater equality of incomes 
and wealth. It is, therefore, proposed to make our direct tax system serve this purpose by 
increasing income taxation at the higher levels as well as by substantially enhancing the 
present rates of taxation on wealth and gifts. Because of the urgent need to restrain 
speculative increases in urban land values and individual holdings of urban property, the 
taxation of urban land and buildings is being substantially increased. At the same time, 
the concessions available at present to stimulate savings are being rationalised, so as to 
make them more effective. Some marginal relief in direct taxation is also proposed for 
low income groups. In keeping with the need to stimulate higher production and investment 


no significant change in corporate taxation is proposed. 


429 


- Nearly 75 per cent of Central tax revenues are derived from indirect taxation, i.e., from 
customs and excise duties. Any attempt to impart greater strength to the fiscal system, 
therefore, cannot disregard the scope for increase in indirect taxation. The proposals in 
this field are designed primarily to raise additional resources in a manner which helps our 
progress towards self-reliance and restrains the consumption of certain commodities. Such 
restraint 1s necessary from the economic or the social point of view. By and large, the 
additional taxation of investment goods or producer goods has been avoided and the bulk 
of the increase is in respect of final consumer goods. Wherever it has been necessary to 
touch items of common consumption, an attempt has been made to safeguard the 
consumption of the poorer sections of the community to the maximum extent possible. 


Direct Taxation 


The marginal rates of income taxation will be increased progressively on all personal 
incomes above Rs. 40,000 per year. With the addition of the surcharge at 10 per cent, the 
maximum rate of 93.5 per cent will now be reached in the slab over Rs. 2 lakh as against 
82.5 per cent in the slab over Rs. 2.5 lakh 1s present. 


Simultaneously, the existing rates of ordinary wealth tax are being enhanced. At present, 
these rates vary from 0.5 per cent to 3 per cent. They will now vary from 1 per cent at 
lowest slab to 5 per cent at the highest slab. For the individual, who derives his entire 
income from wealth, the combined effect of income and wealth taxation, as now proposed, 
will impose an effective ceiling on income after tax, when such income reaches 
approximately Rs. 25,000 per annum. On the other hand, there will be an inbuilt incentive 
in favour of earned incomes. When income is wholly earned, for example, there will be 
no absolute ceiling, as the highest marginal tax of 93.5 per cent will leave some room for 
increase in income after tax at all levels. 


Hon. Members are aware that we are at present examining practical means of imposing 
a ceiling on urban property. While the legal and other aspects of the matter are being 
examined, it is proposed to increase the additional wealth tax on urban lands and buildings, 
so that the objective of a ceiling on urban property is achieved at least in part, within the 
framework of the powers already available to the Centre. At present, the additional wealth 
tax on urban lands and burtdings 15 leviable, in the case of individuals and Hindu undivided 
families, on the value of lands and buildings situated in cities and towns with a population 
exceeding one lakh and with an initial exemption ranging from Rs. 4 to Rs. 7 lakh in 
different categories of cities. The tax is leviable on the balance at rates ranging from 1 per 
cent to 4 per cent. The maximum rate is reached when the value of urban lands and 
buildings exceeds Rs. 19 to Rs. 22 lakh. It is now proposed to levy a tax of 5 per cent on 
the value of urban lands and buildings in excess of Rs. 5 lakh and at the rate of 7 per cent 
on the value in excess of Rs. 10 lakh. No distinction will be made in regard to the exemption 
on the basis of the population of the area, in which the properties are situated. The definition 
of an urban area is also being enlarged to include areas within the limits of any municipality 
or other similar authority having a population of 10,000 or more, with powers to cover by 
notification areas upto 8 kilometres outside such limits. Business premises will continue 
to be excluded from the proposed levy as at present. However, guest houses maintained 


by those liable to pay this tax will not be reckoned as business premises. Provisions are 
also being made to prevent avoidance of the tax by transfer, from individual or joint Hindu 
family ownership, to ownership by partnership firms associations of persons and closely 
held companies. Another measure which is intended to serve a similar purpose, provides 
for the taxation of capital gains arising from the sale or transfer of agricultural land situated 
within urban areas. 


One of the major devices leading to tax evasion and avoidance is the creation of private 
trusts. At present discretionary trusts are taxed on their income and wealth at the rates 
applicable to individuals. These lower rates lead to the proliferation of such trusts. It is 
proposed that in future, discretionary trusts would be taxed at a flat rate of 65 per cent on 
their incomes and 15 per cent on their wealth or at the rates applicable in the case of 
individuals, whichever is higher. Provision is, however, being made for exemption from 
these flat rates for certain categories of existing discretionary trusts. 


In the case of charitable and religious trusts, exemption from tax would be allowed 
only in respect of income actually applied to the purposes of the trust in the same year, or 
within three months of the close of the year. Further, the exemption will be forfeited 
altogether if the trust funds constituting its corpus or income, are invested in a concern in 
which the author or founder of the trust or any of his relatives is substantially interested 
and the amount of the investment exceeds 5 per cent of the capital of that concern. These 
provisions will curb the use of the funds of charitable and religious trusts to acquire control 
over industry and business. Some changes are also being made to prevent indirect benefits 
being enjoyed by the authors or founders of such trusts. On the other hand the present 
complete exemption from tax, which applies to Universities and other educational 
institutions will also be applied in the case of hospitals and other similar institutions. 


At present, one residential house is exempted from wealth tax, irrespective of its value, 
if it is situated in a place with a population not exceeding 10000. For houses situated in 
larger towns, the monetary limits for exemption is Rs. 1 lakh. The monetary limit of Rs. 1 
lakh will now be applied uniformly irrespective of the location of the residential house. 


The rates of gift tax are also being revised to bring them more in line with the rates of 
estate duty and the present exemption limit of Rs. 10,000 in respect of gifts made during 


a year is being lowered to Rs. 5,000. 


Those who are united in Heaven should not be put asunder by a mere tax collector. 
On this view, the income and wealth of husband, wife and minor children should be 
aggregated for purposes of income and wealth taxation. But in matters like this, enforced 
unity sometimes leads to sharper division. It is, therefore, proposed to examine the matter 
in greater detail and to bring forward the necessary legislation subsequently, giving 
opportunity for discussion in this House and outside. 


At present, income upto Rs. 1,000 from investment in the Unit Trust and upto another 
Rs. 1,000 of dividends on shares in Indian companies as well as the whole of the interest 
earned on a number of small savings schemes and Post Office savings accounts is exempt 
from income tax. There is no reason why a distinction should be made between such 


431 


investments and investments in other financial assets, such as securities of the Central or 
State Governments, approved rural debentures deposits in banking companies, cooperative 
banks and land mortgage or land development banks and the new small savings scheme 
and Post Office deposit accounts which are not to enjoy any special tax concessions. It is, 
therefore, proposed that income upto Rs. 3,000, will be exempt from income tax provided 
it is derived from investments in Unit Trust or shares in Indian companies or any of the 
other categories which I have just mentioned. The exemption in respect of small savings 
schemes and Post Office savings accounts, where special tax concessions are available, 
will continue to be available additionally. 


Similarly, it is proposed that, apart from the present general exemption of Rs. 1 lakh 
in the case of individuals and Rs. 2 lakh in the case of Hindu undivided families and a 
residential house upto value of Rs. 1 lakh investments in a wide variety of financial assets 
upto a total of Rs. 1.5 lakh will be exempt from wealth tax. Even today, investments in 
specified small saving certificates, Post Office savings accounts and five-year fixed deposits 
with the Central Government are exempt from wealth tax and any one who takes the 
maximum advantage of these provisions can claim exemption upto Rs. 12 lakh. The 
enlarged limit of Rs. 15 lakh will now include investments in the Unit Trust, shares of 
Indian companies, securities of the Central or State Governments, approved rural 
debentures, the new small savings schemes and Post Office deposit accounts and deposits 
in banking companies, cooperative banks and land mortgage or development banks. 


On the other hand, in view of these generalised provisions to encourage savings, there 
is NO reason to continue the scheme of tax credit certificates in respect of investments 1n 
new equity issues. These will accordingly be discontinued in relation to new equity issues 
after 31st March, 1970. Existing concessions regarding contributions to life insurance, 
provident funds, etc., will continue. 


Suggestions have been made, from time to time, that the exemption limit for income 
tax should be raised as a measure of relief to lower income groups and in the interest of 
better tax administration. It has been urged that by removing a large number of small 
assessees from the scope of income taxation, Income-tax Officers will have more time to 
devote to larger cases where the gain to revenue would be correspondingly greater, in a 
poor country like ours, the present exemption limit which varies from Rs. 4,000 to Rs. 
4,800 in accordance with the number of dependents, cannot be considered unreasonably 
low in relation to the average level of income in the country. At the same time, there is 
considerable force in the argument that tax administration would improve if income tax 
authorities did not have to devote so much time to smaller cases. Faced with this dilemma, 
I have decided to appeal to the higher court of family planning, and I propose to do away 
with the present system where exemption is related to the number of dependents. In future, 
a uniform exemption limit of Rs. 5,000 will apply in the case of all non-corporate assessees 
irrespective of whether they are married or have any children. This will make for greater 
administrative simplicity and give a small benefit to all income tax payers. The relief will 
be naturally greater for those who continue to seek relief from matrimony or parenthood 
as well. The change in respect of the exemption limit would involve some loss of revenue. 


But I have taken no debit for it as it should be more than offset by the improvement in tax 
administration resulting from greater concentration on cases involving the bigger assessees. 


It is also proposed to provide a minimum deduction of Rs. 20 per month in lieu of the 
cost of travel to work to all salaried assessees. At present, deductions ranging from Rs. 5 
per month to Rs. 250 per month are permissible for people who travel to work on a bicycle, 
motor-cycle, scooter, moped or a motor car. The deduction of Rs. 20 per month would be 
—— to those who travel to work on a bicycle or by public conveyance or by any other 
mode. 


At the same time, the higher deduction of Rs. 250 per month for a motor car which is 
applicable to higher income groups is being reduced to Rs. 200 per month, as there is no 
reason why those who presumably own a more expensive car should be given a larger 
deduction. On balance, the revenue loss from travel concession to the lower income groups 
would be met by the corresponding gain from the reduction in the concession to the higher 
income group. 


It has been decided to leave the present structure of corporate taxation more or less 
alone in the interest of maintaining a stable climate for investment decisions.. The only 
significant change is that all entertainment expenditure incurred in India in business and 
the professions will now be disallowed in computing profits. Similarly, expenditure on 
guest houses, other than holiday homes for the benefit of employees on leave, will be 
disallowed. Those who enjoy the hospitality of their business friends should now no longer 
find their sense of gratitude diminished by the thought that a part of the hospitality is really 
paid for by the Exchequer. 


The combined effect of the increases in direct taxation in a full year would be a gain 
to revenue of Rs. 36 crore. In fact when the measures to plug loopholes such as the revised 
procedure for the taxation of trusts become fully effective, the revenue gain will be 
substantially larger. The additional revenue from wealth tax will become available only in 
1971-72. The additional revenue from income tax also will be available only in the part 
during 1970-71 by way of advance tax and deductions at source. Thus, despite the 
substantial measures of additional direct taxation the net addition to the Centre’s resources 
from these changes in 1970-71 would be Rs. 5 crore only. But it will rise to Rs. 23 crore 
in 1971-72. The States will gain to the extent of Rs. 10 crore in 1970-71 and Rs. 13 crore 


in 1971-72. 


Indirect Taxation 


Turning now to indirect taxation, it is proposed to abolish or reduce export duties on a 
number of items so as to maintain their competitive position in world markets. The duty 
on jute canvas, jute webbings, jute tarpaulin cloth and manufactures thereof is being reduced 
from Rs. 500 to Rs. 200 per metric tonne. The most important chance relates to tea, where 
the export duty is being abolished altogether. At the same time the excise duty on loose as 
well as package teas is being raised with the provision for ad hoc rebate on exports at 
rates varying with the price of exported tea. On balance, the duty burden on the export of 
all teas will be reduced with a margin in favour of teas fetching a higher value so as to 


433 


encourage the export of quality teas. The export duty reductions will mean a loss in revenue 
of Rs. 9.75 crore. 


In order to give impetus to import substitution, the import duty on machinery is being 
raised from 27.5 per cent to 35 per cent ad valorem. The increase, however, will not apply 
to the machinery which is required for the initial setting up of projects, or for substantial 
expansion of existing-projects, whether in the public or the private sector. The import duty 
on motor vehicle parts, pharmaceutical chemicals and non electrical instruments, apparatus 
and appliances will be increased by 10 per cent ad valorem. The duty on certain plastic 
material and michrome and other electrical resistance wires will be raised from 60 per 
cent to 100 per cent ad valorem. 


There is a proposal regarding customs duties which is intended neither to replace 
imports by domestic production nor to produce revenue. In order to curb conspicuous 
consumption and as a modest gesture of personal, if not political, reconciliation. I propose 
to increase the duty on whisky, brandy, gin and wines. 


Inclusive of additional duties corresponding to the changes in excise duties to which I 
will soon turn, the additional revenue from import duties will amount to Rs. 29.75 crore. 
Thus the net gain in customs revenue after adjusting the export duty loss will be Rs. 20.00 
crore. 


It has often been suggested that the scope for excise taxation should be widened to 
include taxation at a low rate of about 10 per cent on practically the whole range of 
manufactured products. Without going that far, it is proposed to levy a 10 per cent ad 
valorem excise duty on a number of new items including office machines, metal containers, 
sparking plugs, stainless steel blades, slotted angles, iron safes and safc deposit vaults. 
The levy on office machines, will cover items like typewniters, calculating machines, cash 
registers, cheque-writing machines, computers and intercom devices. The duty on metal 
containers will be confined to those intended for the packaging of goods for sale, including 
casks, drums, cans, gas cylinders and rigid containers. The additional revenue from these 
new duties will amount to Rs. 10.40 crore. 


Similarly, among chemical products, duty at the rate of 10 per cent ad valorem will 
now be levied on calcium carbide, bleaching powder and sodium hydrosulphite and the 
present duty of 5 per cent on soda ash and caustic soda will be raised to 10 per cent. An 
excise duty of Rs. 300 per metric tonne 18 also being levied on synthetic rubber. These 
changes will bring in an additional revenue of Rs. 5.30 crore. 


A 10 per cent ad valorem duty was levied last year on prepared and preserved food. 
The scope of the duty was, however limited by notification to preserved and canned fruits, 
jams, jellies, fruit juices—squashes and certain meat products. I propose now to remove 
the bias against, fruits and meat by extending the scope of the levy to include products 
such as vegetable juices, synthetic syrups and sherbets, de-hydrated peas, malted foods, 
instant coffee, instant tea, jelly crystals, custard and ice-cream powders, biscuits, coca 
powder, drinking chocolate pasteurised butter, processed cheese, branded aerated waters, 
glucose and dextrose. I hope, hon. Members will not accuse me of having preferences of 


४५९ 
९१०३३ 
4,8, 
0१३४, 
5०१ 

० 
oe 
es 
2000 

है, 
ates 
ve 


Be 
oe 


22.22 ete, 
200: 


BN 


05% 50:77: 77777::22 
a 


te 
a 


222 
Pineiro 
०४ 22 


aR 
eee 


ie ins Sow ape fo खठ5252557 
Be erence 
etek प 232 ००२०: 
१ we cy www 
20003: 


Sno 
ox 
as 


my Own as, even under my proposals, aerated waters, biscuits, butter and cheese will be 
taxed only when manufactured with the aid of powder and there will be total exemption 
from tax for baby foods and branded ‘deshi’ ghee. These proposals will yield an additional 
revenue of Rs. 8.86 crore. 


The duty on sanitary-ware and glazed tiles of porcelain will be raised from 15 per cent 
and 10 per cent respectively to 25 per cent. The duty on room air-conditioners will be 


raised from 4( per cent to 335 per cent and similar increase is also being made in respect 
of larger refrigerators with a capacity exceeding 165 litres. The duty on parts of 
refrigerators, air-conditioning plants and machinery is also being raised from 735 per cent, 


2 C 
to 67 per cent. Components and machinery required for cold storage plants, 


airconditioning of hospitals run by Government, local bodies and public trusts, as well as 
factory establishments will, however, be exempted from the scope of the increase. It will 
be seen that small size refrigerators will not be affected. I propose, very reluctantly, to 
withdraw the exemption गा favour of television sets and impose a duty of 20 per cent ad 
valorem. The gain to revenue from these measures will be Rs. 2.24 crore. 


In the case of aluminium, the existing specific duties are being replaced by ad valorem 
duties. With a certain degree of rationalisation, this will produce an additional revenue of 
Rs. 470 crore. The duty of rigid plastic boards and unsupported P.V.C. sheets is also being 
rationalised by transferring the incidence to the end product and this will yield an additional 
revenue of Rs. 96 lakhs. 


It is proposed to increase the basic excise duty on polyester fibre of 2 deniers or less 
from Rs. 21 to Rs. 25 per kilogram with a corresponding increase in special excise duty. 
The present nominal duty of 7.8 paise per sq. metre on artificial silk fabrics which include 
rayon, nylon, terylene, terycot and terywool fabrics is being replaced by ad valorem duty 
ranging from 3 per cent to 10 per cent. The duty will vary according to the value of the 
fabric and in the case of the cheaper varieties, whose wholesale price is less than Rs. 2.50 
per sq. metre, there will in fact be some relief as compared to the present position. I propose 
to make no change in relation to cotton fabrics with the exception of a minor measure of 
rationalisation, whereby certain fabrics at present taxed at specific rates, will be subjected 
to ad valorem levy. The proposals on synthetic fibre and artificial silk fabrics will yield 
an additional revenue of Rs. 13.78 crore. 


The demand for petroleum produce has been increasing very rapidly and it is necessary 
to exercise some restraint in the interest of saving valuable foreign exchange. It 1s also 
necessary to curtail the adulteration of diesel oil by kerosene, which has assumed substantial 
proportions, and to discourage the use of furnace oil as a substitute for other fuels such as 
coal. Accordingly, the duty on motor spirit is proposed to be increased by 10 paise litre, 
on superior kerosene by 2 paise per litre and on furnace oil by 2 paise per litre. The 
additional excise duty on three items will yield a revenue of Rs. 39.56 crore of which 


Penns 22227: Dae DO ae 
ee ee Anes 
es dee Sai OO OL Se RS 


Rs, 21.36 crore will be in respect of motor spirit and Rs. 9.2 crore is respect of kerosene. 

_The increase in the duty on furnace oil will not apply to such oil used in coastal shipping 
and for electricity generation and there will be no change in the duty on inferior kerosene. 
Hon. Members will also note that the increase in the price of superior kerosene will be 
only modest, i.e., 3.5 per cent. 


I am sorry that the smoker’s pocket has to be touched once again. The duty on cigarettes 
is being enhanced with the increase ranging from 3 per cént to 22 per cent ad valorem 
depending on the value slabs. The cheaper varieties of cigarettes will go up by only one 
or two paise per packet of 10 cigarettes. Assuming that the smoking community remains 
steadfast in its devotion, the additional revenue from this measure will be Rs. 13.50 crore. 


As already mentioned, the excise duty on tea is being raised in order to release larger 
quantities for export particularly of quality teas. There will be no increase in the duty on 
loose tea produced in zone one and only a marginal increase of 10 paise per kilo on teas 
produced in zone two. For other zones, the increase varies from 45 paise to one rupee per 
kilo. After allowing for the rebate on export, there will be an additional revenue of Rs. 
7.87 crore which will be more than offset by the loss in revenue from the abolition of the 
export duty on Tea. 


A uniform of 23 per cent ad valorem was levied last year on both levy sugar and free 
market sugar. Prices of sugar in the free market have declined substantially since then. 
Accordingly, it is proposed to increase the duty on free market sugar from the present level 
of 23 per cent to 37.5 per cent ad valorem. In the case of levy sugar, which account for 70 
per cent of the total, there would only be a marginal rounding off of the present rate from 
23 per cent to 25 per cent. In line with the step up on free sugar, though not to the same 
extent, the tarrif rate of duty on khandsari sugar is being increased from 2.5 per cent to 
17.5 per cent. But as far as the rates under the compounded levy system are concerned, 
which most of the producers elect to adopt, there will be a reduction on the present rates 
which are being revised keeping in view the fall in prices. The net additional revenue from 
sugar is estimated at about Rs. 28.50 crore. 


There are also a number of changes proposed in the excise duty structure by way of 
rationalisation, simplification or clarification of the present position. The statutory rate of 
duty on tin plates, for example, is being raised from Rs. 375 to Rs. 400 per metric tonne, 
in order to remove the present anomaly of the indigenous tin plates paying a higher 
cumulative duty than the additional duty borne by imported tin plates. The excice duty on 
paints and varnishes manufactured by units not employing power will be wholly exempted 
as also the duty on fertilizer mixtures made out of fertilizers which have a ready paid duty 
irrespective of whether such mixture are produced by power or not. Some relief is also 
being accorded in the case of strawboards and millboards by revising the excise duty 
exemption at certain levels of production. These measures of relief in excise duties will 
involve a loss in revenue of Rs. 43 lakh. Certain enabling provisions of the Finance Act 
1969 are also being continued. 


The total effect of all these proposals relating to excise duties will be an additional 
revenue gain of about Rs. 135 crore, of which Rs. 100 crore will accrue to the Centre and 
Rs. 35 crore will be the share of the States and Union Territories. 


Posts and Telegraphs 


The Posts and Telegraphs Department is likely to be in deficit next year also. 
Accordingly, postal, telegraph and telephone tariffs will be revised to some extent from 
dates to be notified. These revisions are outlined in a memorandum being circulated with 
the Budget papers. Briefly, there will be some increase in postal tariffs in respect of parcels, 
registration fee, despatch of value payable articles, money order commission, supplementary 
fee for telegraphic money orders and book, pattern and sample packets. Phonograms and 
greeting telegrams will cost a little more. Charges for telephone calls beyond the first 750 
calls in a quarter will increase from 15 paise to 20 paise per call. Hon. Members will note 
that services such as post cards and inland letter cards, which are generally used by common 
people, are not being touched; in the case of money orders also no increase is being made 
upto Rs. 100. The proposed changes will yield Rs. 8.22 crore in a full year and would 
leave for next year a surplus of Rs. | crore after meeting the anticipated revenue deficit. 
The effect of these changs has been accounted for in reckoning the total internal resources 
of public undertakings. 


Summing up 


To sum up, the measures for the additional taxation proposed will yield a total revenue 
of about Rs. 170 crore in 1970-71 of which Rs. 125 crore will accrue to the Centre and 
Rs. 45 crore to the States. In subsequent years, when the full effects of the changes in 
direct taxation will be felt, the gain to Central and States revenues would be larger even 
without allowing for the normal growth factor. As a result the budgetary gap at the Centre 
next year will be of the order of Rs. 225 crore as against the Revised Estimate of Rs. 290 
crore for current year. In view of the recent upward pressure on prices and the substantial 
increase in money supply over the past year, some reduction in deficit financing is clearly 
desirable. At the same time, a deficit of the order of Rs. 225 crore should not cause concern 
in view of the present favourable supply conditions in regard to foodgrains. The Reserve 
Bank has already taken a number of steps recently to control credit; and with continued 
vigilance in this regard, the deficit in the Government Budget now proposed should pose 
no threat to the general stability of prices. The Central Budget has provided adequately 
for the plans of the States not only by increasing Plan assistance and by providing for 
substantial non Plan assistance but also by raising additional resources in a manner which 
would bring considerable gains to the revenues of State Governments. I hope that against 
this background, the States will be able to look after their Plan and non-Plan needs without 
recourse to unauthorised overdrafts from the Reserve Bank. 


Sir, before I conclude, I should like to say that in presenting my first Budget to this 
Hon. House, I have become acutely aware of the challenges as well as the constraints of 
the contemporary epoch of development of our national economy. At the very beginning 
of my speech, I endeavoured to set out the broad framework within which this Budget is 


ora me 


Cee eee ae) 


enna sg ar 


paris 0] 
aa Sat 


४०1 ee 
ea ae 


437 


cast. That framework, I believe, is consistent with the political, economic and social realities 
_ Of our country. Convinced as I am of its essential soundness, there is no alternative but to 
tread a difficult but determined course. If the opportunities for growth which are so much 
in evidence are to be seized fully, no effort must be spared in raising resources for the 
purpose. To flinch from this effort at this stage would be to impose even heavier burdens 
in the years to come. If we allow the present momentum of growth to wane for the sake 
of some purely temporary advantage we will deny ourselves the cumulative benefits of a 
higher rate of growth for all time to come. If the requirements of growth are urgent, so is 
the need for some selective measures of social welfare. The fiscal system has also to serve 
the ends of greater equality of incomes, consumption and wealth, irrespective of any 
immediate need for resources. At the same time, the needs of those sectors of our economy 
which require private initiative and investment must also be kept in mind in the interest 
of the growth of the economy as a whole. I can only hope that the proposals I have just 
presented steer clear of the opposite dangers of venturing too little or attempting too much. 
Thank you. 


ie भर 3 ae af कं ate 2c मं 


*Mr. Speaker, Sir, may I start off by saying that it will always be my endeavour to 
give justice to all. 


I rise with rather mixed feelings. A Finance Minister gets mostly brickbats and I had 
braced myself for this. But the Budget has been acclaimed by many here in the House 
and outside and it has been recognised as marking a point of departure, seeking growth 
with social justice. I myself do not claim much for the Budget. 


ae 1 भर 2k ak 2k ae मंद अं 


Many hon. Members have spoken of the meagreness of the amounts for social welfare 
schemes. I share their concern but so large is the problem and so vast the numbers involved, 
that even a hundred times more would hardly be adequate for what is to be done. But we 
have in all sincerity and eamestness made a small beginning. 


The most eloquent tribute to the Budget was paid unwittingly by Professor Madhok 
when he called it a political Budget. I believe that the Budget should not degenerate into 
a mere statement of receipts and expenditure; it shci:ld set out the direction in which 
Government wants to lead the country, and seek to mobilise the support of the people for 
its policies and programmes, by responding 1n some measure to their urges and aspirations. 


In this sense this Budget, like any other sound budget, is a political document. It reflects 
the political philosophy of the present Government. Through this Budget we seek to move 
forward towards greater equality of incomes and wealth and to create more opportunities 
for gainful employment through larger outlay in the public sector and through greater 
opportunity for small entrepreneurs and small savers. 


* While replying to the General Discussion on the General Budget, 1970-71, L.S. Deb., 17 March, 1970, cc. 314-28. 


438 : 


oe 
os 


५59 
oan 
ia 


Cm s 
५:22: 
mee ee 


cae 
‘ata 


१०००-०३ 


Pe 


Bes 
oat 
ste 


essere 
ee "a 


2 
2272 


on) 
Sete! 


= 
“2 2०7८० 
RRO OS 


aaa 


३५९९ 


reared 
००० २०:०: ४ 
mens 
-, 
visas 
GO S ४५, 
226 ०८००१ 


oe 
52 


ak 
ote 
eae 
at 
B ye 
Wwe 


ene 


ete 


et 
०४०2. 
ere 


‘ard 
22275 


2:22: 2० 72६९९5/६5 


SIREN 
12727: 225 


1 a i 


००७१७ 
722 


a 
S5 


Poses 9८2 22000 ००२० 
resets 21227 72 
AN जे कु 


266%2%26%8 
2:22 


Cae 


It is our firm belief that social justice is not only compatible with economic growth 
but is an essential condition for sustained and orderly growth. Professor Professor Madhok, 
who is the philosopher of the Jana Sangh, thought that there was too much politics in the 
Budget, but his counterpart in the Cong. (O), Shri Asoka Mehta, seemed to deplore that 
there was too little of the new politics. 


I am told that one of Shri Mehta’s favourite authors was Mr. Erle Stanley Gardner. 
Many of us here regret his death. As Gardner would have put it, Shri Mehta’s is “The 
Case of the Rueful Radical”. Shri Mehta is an adept at polemics of sorts. He talked of 
embroidery, window dressing and so on. Unfortunately, I am not good at these crafts. But 
we have all marvelled at Shri Mehta’s own skill in embroidering words, not only for himself 
but for others.... 


He called me the author of destabilisation. I shall not comment on this. The hon. 
Member, Dr. Maitreyee Bose has dealt very effectively on this point. She said that it was 
Shri Mehta who first split the Congress Party, joined the P.S.P., and the split it and finally, 
re-joined the Congress and again split it. She called him a master splitter. It is well-known 
that it was not I who was the author of the letters of expulsion and ex-communication 
which split our party. 


Then, Shr Mehta says that between 1962 and 1967 some 32 lakh jobs were created 
while in four years under my stewardship only 4 lakh jobs were created. But not a word 
about drought and recession of the recent years and there is no mention of increased defence 
and development effort which we put in between 1963 and 1965. This selective use of 
history is not worthy of one who prizes intellectual and cultural freedom. 


Shri Mehta wanted a better Budget. Though I listened very carefully to his speech, I 
could not find any concrete idea of how to make the Budget better. He advocated much 
larger sums for rural areas, rural works, not just Rs. 25 crore but Rs. 200 crore or even 
Rs. 300 crore for rural works and other social welfare measures. But he did not say how 
these additional outlays should be financed. He seemed somewhat unhappy at not being 
able to make any real criticism. Perhaps what he really meant was that I should have come 
forward with a Budget which would have provided a better target for attack. At the same 
time, he did concede that, perhaps, I had accelerated the trend by a year or so. I think, to 
accelerate the trend of progress by a year or so is no mean achievement, and I take it as a 
compliment. If I were asked to name the single most important feature of the Budget, I 
would unhesitatingly say that it is an attempt to break the spell of fiscal stagnation. The 
new Budget restores to the public sector, the original role envisaged for it as the pace- 


setter for the economy. 


Since 1964-65, we have had to severely prune the development programmes of the 
public sector. We should perhaps have taken advantage of the comparatively good harvest 
of 1967-68 and 1968-69 to step up the rate of investment in the economy. But we had 
over-reacted to the phenomenon of rising prices during the closing Stage of the Third Plan 
and had cut back sharply on investment. This significant drop in public investment was 
one of the reasons for accentuating unemployment. The cut in the investment in Public 


439 


a 


Sector had induced a set-back in the tempo of investment in the private sector also. Hon. 
Member, Shri Masani, may not agree, but some of his business colleagues will tell him 
that in the conditions prevailing in our country, a significant reduction in public sector 
investment results also in recession in the private sector. This is turn leads to sluggishness 
in the growth of the revenues of the Central and State Governments, necessitating further 
caution in regard to investment programmes in the public sector. This is a vicious circle 
of slow growth in resources and decline in the rate of investment and it has to be broken 
at some point. The present Budget does seek to do this. It provides for an increase in the 
Plan outlay by Rs. 400 crore in the coming year. We believe that this increase along with 
other fiscal and monetary policies of the Government will stimulate the economy and 
employment opportunities all round. This will in turn make a favourable impact on public 
revenues and thus restore a measure of dynamism to our economy. 


If the stock exchanges have reacted favourably to the Budget, it 1s not because a 
particular item was taxed or another item was not taxed, but because they recognize the 
simple fact that the budget will boost the economy. 


As usual, Shri Masani has attacked our whole economic policy. It 18 strange that a 
person who is so articulate should be content to make the same speech every year. 
(Interruptions). 


अप मं मै ae 24a FOCI 


He* has or his Party has certain formulae. Scrap the Plan, there will be more 
development; Reduce the tax, there will be more revenue; there will be more income if 
the Government did not attempt to raise more resources for development, and after 1962, 
for Defence, I suppose, extending this argument logically both ways, if income tax, excise 
and customs are all zero, perhaps income would be infinity. 


Then, again : If the tax collection machinery improves, there would be no need to 
increase the rates. I can see the scope of tightening the tax administration. We all know 
that a great deal has to be done. We are making every effort to do it. Many measures have 
been taken and I hope we will be able to improve further. But we all know that in every 
country, not only in India, but even in the more affluent countries like USA, UK and 
France—just to name a few big tax-payers do try to withhold as much as they can. With 
the spread of public health measures, affluent countries also have diseases, there are new 
diseases of affluence and one such disease is the avoidance of tax. 


Many Members have expressed their concern over prices. It is most important to protect 
the incomes, of those who are already in employment, from erosion becasue of rise in 
prices. But can we overlook the interests of those who are unemployed or under-employed 
and those who have no income at all ? Their only hope lies in a balanced and judicious 
acceleration of the pace of investment in the economy. 


* Shri S.K. Tapuriah. 


_ We want growth with stability. Growth may in fact, be a prerequisite for stability if it 
1s interpreted as comprising not merely the stability of prices but also social stability. 


Many hon. Members from the Opposition have sought to denigrate the performance 
of public enterprises. This is not a new experience for us. It takes place during practically 
every Question Hour. The Swatantra Party would like to confine the State to the 
maintenance of law and order and certain basic services, leaving the whole field of industry 
and commerce to the unregulated functioning of the private sector. 


The speeches of some hon. Members of the Cong. (O) echoed the speech from the 
Chair in Faridabad last year. We do want our ‘public enterprises to make profit. We do 
want them to be efficiently managed. But, let us not forget that the public sector has another 
important objective-the building up of the infrastructure for the economy as a whole. The 
metallurgical, heavy engineering and heavy electrical units in the public sector are designed 
for this purpose. These industries are, by their very nature, Capital intensive and have long 
gestation periods. The critics of the public sector conveniently overlook the difficulties 
arising from drought and recession which industry in general, both in the public and private 
sectors, had to face. In the last few years, many engineering units in the private sector 
have also faced difficulties similar to those of public enterprises, that is, lack of orders, 
under utilisation of capacity and so on. 


Even so, the performance of public enterprises has been improving, and Government 
have taken a number of steps in the recent past to ensure greater efficiency in their 
management. During 1968-69, of the 73 running concerns, 42 made a net profit of Rs. 
66.23 crore as against Rs. 48.95 crore made by 40 concerns in the previous year. Even 
after setting off the losses incurred by other units, the performance of public enterprises 
in 1968-69 registered an improvement over the previous year. The overall net loss of public 
enterprises was reduced from Rs. 37.89 crore in 1967-68 to Rs. 27.67 crore in 1968-69. 


ae कं 2 ee afc और we 2c मंद 


While evaluating the performance of public enterprises, particularly the bigger units 
such as Hindustan Steel, we should, in fairness, recognise that similar units in the private 
sector did not fare better in their initial years. Tata Iron and Steel which was incorporated 
in 1907 declared its maiden dividends only in 1915-16. Thereafter, 1 declared dividends 
only in 1920-21 and in 1935-36. The regular dividend on its ordinary shares was being 


declared only from 1940-41 onwards. 


Now, Sir, balance-sheets are important, but in assessing the role of the public enterprises 
in our strategy of development, we should look beyond their balance-sheets. We envisage 
an expanding role for the public sector, because we want it to occupy a key position in 
our economy. 

Only such expansion will lay the foundation for a self-reliant economy and will prevent 


the concentration of the ownership of the means of production. These enterprises belong 
to the nation. The very fact that they are publicly-owned ensures that their performance 


will be under constant public scrutiny and that there will be constant pressure for their 
improvement. 


मेष मंर मर ae ai ak tO 


Shri Masani has alleged—I believe the word he used was ‘under brutal Soviet 
pressure’—that an Indian consultancy firm has been pushed out of the job of consultancy 
in Bokaro, which had been promised to them. He has further alleged that the Central 
Engineering and Design Branch is ‘nothing but a cover and a facade for the Soviet 
consultancy organisation, Gipromez’. 


There is no question whatsoever of our acting under pressure, whether brutal or gentle, 
from any quarter, whether Soviet or Swatantra. 


He कं मे ae ale me ae मंद 


During the first stage, that is, upto 1.7 million tonnes, Gipromez was the main consultant 
while Dastur and Co. were assigned certain specific responsibilities. During the next stage 
of expansion upto 4 million tonnes, 1t was felt that since we wanted to develop our own 
consultancy organisation, there was no longer any need to employ the Soviet organisation 
as the main consultant. Far from giving Gipromez a larger role in the second stage of 
Bokaro, we propose to give a larger role to our own consultancy organisation. Presumably 
the complaint is that in choosing the principal consultants we have chosen our own 
organisation in the public sector. viz., the Central Engineering and Design Branch of 
Hindustan Steel rather than Dastur and Co. I do not think I need apologise for choosing a 
public sector consultancy organisation as our principal consultant. We should like Dastur 
and Co. also to continue as consultants during the second stage for the same kind of work 
as was entrusted to them during the first stage. 


I would like to say a word about the CEDB of Hindustan Steel. It is not an agent or 
satellite of any foreign consultancy organisation; but to build up its own potential, it has 
entered into certain agreements with a number of foreign firms and consultancy 
organisations including Gipromez of the Soviet Union. They have made similar agreements 
with United Engineering of the US and Messrs. Otto of West Germany. They are proposing 
to enter into an agreement with Messrs. VOEST of Austria. 


The detailed project report for Bokaro expansion has already been approved by the 
Government of India. If we decide to strengthen our own consultancy organisation, this 
does not in any way imply lack of confidence in private consultancy organisations such 
as Dastur and Co. or others. We are committed to encourage Indian consultancy 
organisations in every possible way. But hon. Member will agree that any agitational 
approach to secure particular contracts at the expense of competitors is not likely to promote 
the interest of developing indigenous consultancy capability. There is enough work in our 
country for all the organisations that exist in this field. 


There was a further allegation that payments to the Soviet consultancy organisation 
for services rendered were to be made in pounds sterling or the gold content of the rupee. 


442 


Here again the hon. Member has been misinformed. All such payments are to be made 
under the Soviet credit for Foreign Plan projects for which an agreement was signed in 
December, 1966. All our credit agreements with the Soviet Union provide—and I quote— 


Repayments by way of principal and payment of interest may be used by the Soviet 
Organisations to purchase goods in India in accordance with the Indo-Soviet Trade 
Agreement in force and/or may be freely converted into pounds sterling. 


No repayment has so far been made to the U.S.S.R. in pound sterling, nor has any 
request been made for such payment in pound sterling. There are standard clauses in all 
our credit agreements regarding adjustments to be made in case of change in the exchange 
rate. Here again, the situation is no different from that in respect of credits from Western 
countries where, since repayments are determined in foreign exchange, the rupee equivalent 
varies automatically in response to changes in the exchange rate. 


Some hon. Members have asserted that revenues have been overestimated to the extent 
of Rs. 100 to Rs. 150 crore. My colleague, Shri Sethi, has already dealt with this point. 
Hon. Member opposite, Shri Mehta, spoke of this also, but did not adduce any argument 
in support of his thesis. He declared he would not go into details, but would be prepared 
to discussion. We always welcome such discussion and exchange of views, but I would 
like to assure hon. Members that the revenue estimates for 1970-71 have been worked out 
most carefully, without any underestimation or overestimation, and they reflect our best 
judgment as of today. There is every likelihood that with the increase in import licences 
which has already taken place and the more liberal provision for imports which is proposed, 
the revenue from import duties will increase as estimated by Rs. 35 crore or so. The 
estimated increase of ten per cent in Union excise duties is based on the likely increase in 
consumption and production of excisable items. Even my colleague Shri Salve wondered 
how excise revenue could increase by ten per cent when industrial production was likely 
to increase by 7.5 per cent or so. The weightage of commodities in industrial production 
is not the same as_ the weightage of commodities that enter into the collection of excise 
duties. To give only one example, commodities such as petroleum products account for a 
much larger share of excise revenue than their share in total industrial production. The 
revenue from direct taxes should exceed the estimates presented in the Budget. As Shn 
Salve and some other hon. Members have pointed out, at least in one respect, that is the 
collection under Wealth Tax, we have been careful to assume a slight decline in revenue 
at existing rates of taxation for the coming year, since collections in the current year 
represent to some extent an acceleration in the pace of assessment. I do not say that there 
could be no variations, either up or down, but I must strongly repudiate the suggestion 
that we have deliberately tried to present a rosier picture of the situation than is warranted 


by facts as we see them now. 


A number of speakers have referred to the provision of special assistance of Rs. 175 
crore to the States to enable them to have worthwhile plan programmes. It has been 
suggested that this provision is not constitutional and that it is intended to be used for 
political purposes to favour certain States and to punish others. Such an allegation only 
reflects the mental make-up of those who make it. It probably represents what these 


Members would do in like circumstances, but it is not the way in which I function. In 
evesy session hon. Members have spoken up for one or other State, which is suffering 
from chronic financial difficulties because of the burden of accumulated debts and other 
factors. It has been repeatedly urged that these chronic difficulties of the weaker States 
should be met by the Centre by debt re-scheduling or by any similar form of special 
assistance. On more than one occasion, we have assured the House that we would look 
into this question and do whatever be necessay after we received the recommendations of 
the Finance Commission. 


The Finance Commission examines only the position of revenue account and does not 
examine the position of different States on capital account. (/nterruptions.) That is why 
the recommendations of the Finance Commission cannot solve the problems of the weaker 
States which might arise from factors like the burden of accumulated debts. 


The Planning Commission has been aware for quite some time that many States have 
non-Plan gaps and that unless these gaps are covered by some form of speical assistance, 
it would not be possible for them to undertake Plan programmes which the Planning 
Commission considers worthwhile. 


a ie a ae मं मंप मंद afc 


What is more, as long as there are non-Plan gaps, any additional resources mobilised 
by these States are going to cover these gaps rather than be available for Plan purposes. 
The Planning Commission has been urging that in order to provide an incentive for the 
States to raise resources some special effort should be made to help these States in meeting 
their non-Plan gaps. 


After receiving the recommendations of the Finance Commission, the Planning 
Commission has had a series of detailed discussions with each State, and as a result of 
these discussions, it has arrived at certain conclusions about the special assistance that 
should be given to eight or nine States, in addition to what they would receive as part of 
Plan assistance or in response to the recommendations of the Finance Commission. 


It is in the light of this examination and in response to a specific recommendation of 
the Planning Commission that it was decided to provide special assistance. 


Me ak मं aK ae औद ae ie a 


There is nothing arbitrary about the figure of Rs. 175 crore or about the manner in 
which this assistance will be given. There is nothing unconstitutional about the provision 
of such ad hoc assistance to the States. Even this year such ad hoc assistance to the tune 
of Rs. 275 crore is likely to be given to the States. All that we have done for the next year 
15 to provide in advance for need which is already felt and for which a great deal of concern 
has been expressed in this House. 


I strongly repudiate the suggestion that there is anything sinister or irregular about the 
provision. The assistance will be made available on the assessment of the resources position 
of the States in relation to the approved Plans, and will thus conform to the well 


an 


22%: 


See 


८7९52: 


recognisable criteria. The assistance is also not unconditional. It will always be subject to 
sound fiscal management on the part of the States. We would certainly stipulate that the 
State do all that they can to mobilise and conserve their resources. 


Hon. Members have asked for the names of the States. I would not like to give them 
Just now because the assessment of the resources position of the States is not quite complete. 
It would not be proper to name them as the Planning Commission would like to obtain a 
commitment as firm as possible from the States in need of such assistance to raise the 
maximum possible resources on their own. In the course of the year, the House will certainly 
have the full details of the assistance provided to the States. Then they would appreciate 
how objective we have been. 


Shri Masani chose even to question the competence of the Union Government to extend 
assistance to the States. The Government of India have, subject to the authority of 
Parliament, the right to extend loans and grants to the States under article 282 and 293(2) 
of the Constitution. Such loans and grants have been given since the commencement of 
the Constitution and are inescapable in any federal set-up. 


Some hon. Members have stated that the welcome increases in direct-taxation might 
led to greater tax evasion and black money thus putting the honest tax payer relatively to 
a greater disadvantage. We are well aware that greater equality cannot be achieved merely 
by increasing the rates of taxation. 


These have to be followed up by systematic and stringent measures to improve the 
machinery of tax collection to tool out avoidance and evasion of taxes. As I said earlier, 
we propose to do all that is possible, energise our tax collection and to deal with tax evasion 
and avoidance with the utmost severity. 


We have taken some measures to plug the loopholes in tax laws such as those in relation 
to trusts. It has been represented here and outside that the provision now made relating to 
public charitable trusts, specially in regard to the time given to them to comply with some 
of these conditions may lead to difficulties in genuine cases. We shall try to remove any 
genuine difficulties, but nc quarter can be given to the tax evader. 


I now come to the apprehension that the budget might add to inflantionary pressures. 
A deficit of Rs. 225 crore next year is not large, if we bear in mind the precipatated increase 
in production. Before the presentation of the Budget, nearly economic commentators agreed 
that we could provide for a deficit of something like Rs. 100 crore. Our own assessment 
was a little more cautious and we decided in labour of a smaller figure. I have already 
refuted the charge that the deficit would be large becasue of over estimation of revenue. 


There is also some misgiving that the deficit might be larger because of the State 
Governments adding to it. As I said earlier, it was to forestall this situation that next year 
we have provided an advance for special assistance. The proposed new Central measures 
of taxation will make as much as Rs. 45 crore extra available to the State Governments. 
At this stage, it is not possible to have a very clear or comprehensive picture of the position 
as it emerges from the State budgets, already presented or going to be presented. The 


deficits, as published do not take into account the special assistance provided and in some 
Cases the market borrowings. 


I am glad that some States have come out with proposals to mobilise additional 
resources. With all the measures which we have taken to assist the States, they can no 
longer have any justification to run into unauthorised overdraft from the Reserve Bank. If 
they fail to play their full part in resource mobilisation, their plan programmes are bound 
to suffer. 


Regarding the criticism that increase in indirect taxation will lead to an increase in 
prices, care has been taken to limit the new imposts as far as possible to items which are 
consumed by the upper class. There is hardly any reason why the comparatively better off 
. sections should not pay for things like juices, syrups, custard, icecream, cheese and 
chocolates (Interruptions). The only imposts which might conceivably affect the common 
people would be the increase in excise duties on sugar, kerosene and tea. But even here a 
conscious effort has been made to introduce the concept of equitable discrimination as 
between the different income groups. 


AS regards tea, there is no proposal to increase the duty on the loose varieties produced 
in Zone-I and on packed varieties containing 25 gms. or less. Similarly, the proposed 
increase in the case of Zone-II is only ten paise per kg. Those two Zones account for more 
than halt of the total production and nearly two-thirds of the aggregate domestic 
consumption of era. The effect of adjustments of excise duty in tea would, therefore, be 
insignificant, particularly as the poorer sections consume loose tea. The maximum proposed 
increase 1s in Zone-III which products quality Darjeeling varieties, the bulk of which is 
intended for export. 


As regards sugar, the central excise duty on levy sugar is to be raised by two per cent, 
from 23 per cent to 25 per cent ud valorem. Half of the proposed additional levy would 
accrue to the State in hen of a sales tax. The basis of price fixation with respect to the 
levy on sugar has recently been altered in accordance with the recommendations of the 
Tariff Commission. | 


Over large parts of the country, even after the proposed duty, the ex-factory price of 
levy sugar inclusive of duty, would be lower than the corresponding price obtained before 
the 20th February of this year. 


As regards the effect of the excise duty of free sale sugar, we must remember that the 
price of free market sugar declined by nearly 50 per cent as compared to the prices obtaining 
in March 1969, and in view of the sharp increase in the output of sugar in the current year 
further decline in the price of free market sugar can be expected in the coming months. 
Even with the proposed increase in excise duty, the chances are that in 1970-71 we would 
be paying a lower price for free sale sugar than in 1969-70. 


As regards kerosene the proposed duty is only two paise per litre. Taking into account 
the weightage of the index of wholesale prices of the different commodities, on which 


टन rr 
32022 Cie} 


ee eel 


Vo 
Dern ieee, 


4 
Seen 


rae 


sete 


(20207: 
ROSES 


Srinath agnor 
SRR 

Siena 

०००० 


taxes are being increased, the increase should not go to more than half per cent even if the 
entire burden of the additional taxation is passed on to the consumer. 


There is no single unchangeable definition of the words ‘luxury’ and ‘necessity’. As 
incomes go up, sanitaryware or preserved foods may be regarded as necessities. But if 
resources are to be enlarged, it cannot be argued that commodities like preserved foods or 
Sanitary ware should escape taxation altogether. While considering the incidence of taxation 
on the lower income groups, we should not ignore the beneficial impact of the welfare 
schemes proposed, such as family pension, schemes for industrial workers, enhanced 
minimum pension for Government servants, child welfare programmes etc. As I said earlier, 
price stability is essential for social justice and rising prices do cause social tension. In 
assessing the price situation it would be highly misleading if estimates are made on the 
basis of trends over one or two months. Let us not invoke the horrors of the inevitable 
failure of the monsoon or some such thing. The average level of wholesale prices between 
April 1969 and January 1970 was roughly three per cent higher than the average level 
during the corresponding period of previous year. Between the middle of January and the 
middle of February this year, the wholesale price index remained stable after rising for 
about three months. The credit measures taken by the Reserve Bank are beginning to have 
some effect. One hon. Member was needlessly harsh on the Reserve Bank, particularly on 
its Governor, who has rendered distinguished service to the country in more than one 
Capacity. 


The events of the last few months have brought about much needed discussion and 
heart-searching in the political forces of the country and there is a movement towards a 
certain crystalisation, which will help us to pursue more efficiently our positive social and 
economic objectives. It is not surprising that critics are unable to find anything new in the 
Budget because they have failed to appreciate one simple fact. If we are to carry forward 
this great nation to its rightful destiny at a crucial period of history, we have to bring about 
simultaneous transformation in our social, political and economic life. 


मं मंद Ok ae ak नै ae a a 


In this, I am aware, we are not advocating anything very new but the Budget does 
indicate the directions in which we intend to move forward. Shr Chandrajit Yadav has 
referred to these. I was also glad that a dispassionate observer such as Shri Tenneti 
Viswanatham has focussed the attention of this House on these initiatives. I am glad also 
that Shri Dwivedy has recognised the new departures which the Budget makes specially 


in the direction of social equality. 


No one can be more keenly aware of the fact that we have tned to achieve in the Budget 
only a small but significant beginning. But, as I have said on previous occasions here, the 
greatest distances can be covered by small steps and this Budget is one such step. I have 
no doubt that it will lead us to other steps and the country will be able to go ahead with 


greater dynamism, vigour and speed. 


Equality-Based Growth* 


‘Mr. Deputy Chairman, Sir, the first speaker for the Opposition said that there was 
nothing new in the Budget, but the young doctor, I think it was from the Jan Sangh, Dr. 
Bhai Mahavir, was pleased to describe it as the most significant Budget since 1947. I myself 
do not make any such resounding claim for the Budget and I believe that had circumstances 
permitted, the Budget could have been better and bolder. Sir, there is not much new. The 
poverty of the country is not new. Our desire to fight poverty is not new, but in every 
earnest Budget something dynamic must be done to fight against these old familiar 
problems. In the last twenty. years we have taken up several challenges. Planning itself 
has been the acceptance of a mighty challenge. As my father once said, the timid of heart 
would not have built a Bhakra Dam and several steel plants. It is because we accepted the 
challenge of development and built the infrastructure that we are today at the stage of 
building the main structure and also addressing ourselves to the reduction of inequalities 
and disparities. 


The hon. Member, Shri Chatterjee, has cast what I would consider a slur on our people 
and has hurt the country’s pride when he asserted that 70 per cent of our outlay came from 
aid. In fact, he alleged that in the First Plan 81 per cent of all our outlays had come from 
aid. I am afraid, his figures are totally wrong and misleading, whether they relate to the 
First Plan or to the later Plans. In fact, the truth is quite otherwise. In the Fourth Plan as 
now envisaged only about 8 per cent of the total outlay constitutes foreign aid, net of 
repayment. Even in terms of gross aid, it will constitute 18 per cent. Thus, a significant 
part of the investment in our economy is financed by the efforts and sacrifices of our own 
people. Even taking together the entire eighteen years of planned economic development, 
foreign aid would constitute only 23 per cent of the total outlay. Let us, therefore, not 
minimise the contribution which our people have made in the building up of our economy. 
The country’s integrity and progress are certainly two great objectives for which our people 
are willing to shoulder the burden. The poor are also asked to bear a part of the burden in 
the form of indirect taxes. 


If, over the years, there has been an increase in taxation, direct or indirect, it was 
primarily for development, which is as urgent a problem as any other. In the last few years 
there has been another unavoidable and urgent problem and that is to increase our defence 
preparedness. 


* Replying to the General Discussion on the Budget, 1970-71, R.S. Deb., 25 March, 1970, cc. 133-44. 


The State Governments, of which Shri Chatterjee’s party was a constituent until recently, 
have also agitated for more development projects. I must say that they did not disown 
responsibility for resources, the bulk of which they would have to realize through indirect 
taxes such as the sales tax. Every indirect tax is not inherently iniquitous. Nor can we 
view the tax structure in isolation. We have to see it in relation to the pattern of public 
expenditure. If we raise resources to finance development and social welfare programmes, 
the intention is that, on the whole, the net effect may be to bring about a transfer of income 
from the comparatively affluent to the poorer sections of the society. So, when Members 
criticise these specific proposals of taxation, I should like them to bear in mind that the 
Budget provides also for certain new initiatives in social welfare services. I am aware that 
these provisions are inadequate, but as we have said in the Budget itself, they mark only a 
beginning. In framing the tax proposals we have taken care to soften the impact on the 
lower income groups. The only imposts which could marginally affect the common people 
are the increases in the excise duties on sugar, kerosene and some varieties of tea. With 
regard to sugar, the bulk of the poor people have to content themselves with what is supplied 
to them through fair price shops under the levy scheme. The increase in the excise duty 
on levy sugar is only two per cent. Even here, as the ex-factory price of sugar in many 
regions has been reduced in the light of the recommendations of the Tariff Commission, 
the poor consumers may not, on the whole, be worse off. With regard to tea also we have 
adopted a selective approach. There 1s no increase on the loose varieties produced in Zone 
I and on the packed varieties containing 25 gms or less. The increase indicated in the case 
of Zone II is only ten paise per kilogram. These two Zones account for about two-thirds 
of the total consumption within the whole country. The increase in respect of kerosene is 
2 paise per litre and has been proposed in order to prevent its misuse in replacing diesel. 
Incidentally there is some misunderstanding that our excise levies will increase the cost 
of public transport. There is no basis for this, because we have not taxed diesel. We have 
taxed petrol and most of the public transport vehicles operate on diesel. 


The transference of income from the small group of the rich to the large majority of 
the poor is certainly one of the main objects of the Budget, but it cannot be the only object. 
Equal sharing by all of what we now have would still not improve the lot of the poor very 
much. It would at the most be a psychological satisfaction. Our great task is to raise 
production to ensure that the size of the national product goes up. So, the Budget cannot 
be just a sickle. It has also to be a plough. 


As the hon. Member, Shri M.N. Kaul, has nghtly remarked, the Budget in our country 
has to create confidence, confidence in the general public that it does more towards welfare 
and also among the productive elements that it does, in fact, help growth. We can 
legitimately claim that this Budget does both these things. 


Some hon. Members have inquired why we have spared the corporate sector in the 
present budget. Now, the rates of taxation on the corporate sector are not low, but the 
existing rates are eroded by a number of rebates, concessions and exemptions which reduce 
the effective rate of taxation. In the last few years a number of concessions were given to 
the corporate sector. We have not offered any new concession to this sector. On the contrary, 
we have reduced some of the existing concessions. The development rebate has been 


449 


reduced. The tax credit scheme has been withdrawn and we have now taken decisive action 
to curb conspicuous consumption in the form of entertainment expenditure and lavishly 
furflished guest houses. We have also proposed several measures which will check the 
diversion of resources into unproductive and speculative channels. In fact the very 
vehemence with which one Member of the Swatantra party, I believe Shri Mehta, has 
reacted to the proposals dealing with Trusts and urban land should convince us that these 
changes will bite and thus have the desired effect. Shri Mehta was at least consistent with 
his and his party’s point of view. But what can one say of Dr. Bhai Mahavir, who expressed 
great sympathy for the poor but shed more tears for the people in the Rs. 2 lakhs to Rs. 5 
lakhs income group ? He and his party have perhaps not yet fully adjusted themselves to 
the new socialism which they are now advocating. 


The hon. Member, Shri Gurupadaswamy, who sits opposite, raised the question of the 
repayment of foreign loans. He dwelt on the evils of aid and maintained that we should 
have been better off without aid. It would be interesting to know at exactly what point of 
time his views on foreign aid have changed. He has also criticised the children’s 


programmes implying perhaps that these were not necessary since they are already covered 
by UNICEF. 


ae He अर eK मे मंप अं अर 


If he has not criticised it, then well and good*. I said myself that we have not been 
able to allot sufficient funds for this and what we have done 1s to make a beginning in the 
right direction. 


Some of these programmes have been worked in the country but on a very small scale 
and in only one or two parts of the country, now we would like them to spread in a more 
systematic manner. 


Shri Gurupadaswamy also said that we have not been able to meet our repayment 
obligations and have asked foreign Governments to reschedule these payments. I should 
like to put the question of debt relief in its proper perspective. In the early years when we 
started taking foreign aid, such aid was generally given on what are known as hard terms. 
In recent years the international concept of terms of aid has changed and aid is now being 
made available to developing countries, including our own, on softer terms. We should 
also remember that while in most cases, foreign aid is tied to purchases within the donor 
countries, the payment of loans in most cases has to be made in free foreign exchange. 
The World Bank and other members of the Consortium have recognised that some form 
of debt relief is necessary in these circumstances. India has had a very clean record of 
honouring all her obligations, and we shall continue to maintain this record. 


We have looked upon debt servicing as the first charge on our export earnings. Debt 
relief is of the same nature as fresh aid in the form of free foreign exchange which can be 


* Responding to Shri M.S. Gurupadaswamy's observations : “I did not say that it was not necessary. I only said that 
it was conceived earlier and has been extended in bits and pieces. I was not against it’. 


450 


used for any of our various essential needs without being tied to purchases of items available 
from donor countries only. 


In evaluating this Budget the emphasis should be on its main thrust. Certain criteria 
have been kept in view. We thought that the foremost objective of the Budget should be 
to guide the nation back to the course of growth from which it had slipped. We were 
convinced that a new dynamism had to be imparted to the economy and that this could be 
done only through a purposive increase in the size of the Plan and the developmental outlay 
in the public sector. Let us recognise frankly that in the last few years public investments 
have not been on the desired scale, and after the years of drought and recession, the private 
sector also was not able to rekindle the spark of growth. Public investments were held 
back because of fiscal difficulties and there was a corresponding set back in private 
investment, thus proving beyond doubt that in the present climate the private sector cannot 
survive or prosper unless the public sector grows vigorously. It is the impulse generated 
by Government expenditure which stimulates private investment. We have taken all this 
into account and have made a determined bid through this Budget to break away from the 
stagnation in investment in recent years. In this sense at least we have deviated from what 
has been called the beaten track. 


As hon. Members may have noticed, the outlay on the Plan is being pushed up by Rs. 
400 crore, an increase of 18 per cent over the current year. I am sure that this increase 
will enliven general economic activity and will also stimulate investment in the private 
sector. There should be no controversy at all over this part of the Budget. Perhaps the only 
party which could possibly be unhappy is the Swatantra which considers any increase 1n 
the public sector to be almost a sin. 


Thus, the budget aims at economic growth. But of what good is economic growth if it 
is accompanied by increased social tensions and if it does not mitigate distributive injustice? 
The gains from economic growth should be shared by all sections of society. The increase 
in the Plan outlay, by its own momentum, will bring greater opportunities for gainful 
employment to the weaker sections of society. But we have also incorporated several 
programmes which are specially oriented towards employment. Some figures of the 
magnitude of unemployment have been mentioned. We have touched upon this subject on 
a previous occasion in this House. I shall not rush in where even economic and statistical 
experts fear to tread. The House is aware that a Committee of experts under Prof. Dantwala 
was appointed to study the existing statistics of unemployment and to make suitable 
recommendations for a proper assessment of the dimensions of this problem. We have 
received only a provisional report. This provisional report throws doubt on the various 
attempts made in the past to quantify precisely the extent of unemployment. After carefully 
looking into the estimates which were used in the Plan documents, the Group formed the 
“considered view that the data available for the estimates were inadequate, and the 
conclusions based on them not accurate”. The Expert Group’s view is that while the lay 
public desires precise estimates, in our social situation such precision is not possible. There 
is more seasonal unemployment and under employment than outright unemployment, and 
the two cannot be aggregated. Household enterprises are so widely prevalent that many 


eee 


people only technically enter the labour market, but will not seek or accept outside 
- employment. 


However, whether it is the unemployment problem or other problems facing the 
economy, I as conscious as are hon. Members that the financial provisions made this year 
are not sufficient to tackle all thése problems in the short run. At the same time, a beginning 
has been made in this budget to rediscover and redefine the egalitarian purpose which is 
an integral part of the process of our economic growth. 


In pursuing these objectives, we have not over-looked the need for price stability. Price 
stability is essential for social justice. I know that when prices rise, it is the poor and the 
fixed income groups who suffer the most. The impact of the proposed changes in indirect 
taxes on the price level will be minimal. Government regret that trade tends to increase 
prices by more than the actual incidence of taxation would warrant. Similarly, with regard 
to deficit financing, we are confident that this can be absorbed by the system, without 
disturbing the price level. The measures included in the Budget should induce a rate of 
growth of economy of 5 to 6 per cent. In the current year our economy has, in fact, 
registered an increase of 5.5 per cent to 6 per cent. The production of food grains will be 
of the order of one hundred million tonnes, and we have ample stocks of food grains in 
the public godowns. The deficit we have left uncovered 18 therefore unlikely to have adverse 
effects. However, I should like to assure the hon. Members that we shall continue to be 
alert in ensuring and enforcing price stability. We shall keep a close watch over public 
finances and other bank credit to the private sector. It will be our continuous endeavour to 
apply restraint whenever it is called for. But I am sure the House will agree that we cannot 
sit back and allow opportunities for economic development to be frittered away for fear 
of adverse seasonal conditions or even for fear of a rise in the price level. 


While attempting to reduce social inequalities and to maintain price stability, we have 
also taken care that incentives for savings are not impaired. Capital formation backed by 
our own internal savings has to be the keystone of development. With this in view, we are 
deliberately trying to augment incentives for savings. 


Several hon. Members have referred to the increase in the non-developmental 
expenditure in recent years. I think that they are labouring under certain misconceptions. 
Taking capital account first, the rate of increase of developmental expenditure over the 
last decade has in any case far outstripped that for other items. But even on revenue account, 
the record is not unsatisfactory. The total expenditure met from revenue was Rs. 953 crore 
in 1960-61. It is proposed to be Rs. 3152 crore for 1970-71. Of this increase over the 
decade, a sum of Rs. 543 crore represents the increase in developmental expenditure while 
the rest is accounted for by other items. For example, Rs. 770 crore are accounted for by 
defence, Rs. 404 crore by debt services, Rs. 245 crore by grants-in-aid to States and Union 
territories, and only Rs. 237 crore by other types of expenditure such as administrative 
services and tax collection charges. This will show that if defence, debt services and grants- 
in-aid to States are excluded, the rest of the increase in non-developmental expenditure 
has been quite moderate. As a percentage to the revenue expenditure excluding defence, 
debt services and grants-in-aid to the States, the Union Governments non-developmental 


expenditure has steadily declined over the years. Its was 45 per cent in 1960-61 but 39 
per cent in the current year. It is expected to go down further to 36 per cent next year. 


A number of hon. Members have expressed misgivings regarding the provision of 
Rs. 175 crore made in the Budget for special accommodation. My colleague, Shri Khadilkar, 
touched upon this point yesterday and I also touched upon it during the last question Hour 
here. We have already made it clear that we are not breaking any new ground in providing 
such loans. Such special accommodation has been given on an ad hoc basis to States in 
the past and it has often been in the nature of a hurried response to a call for financial 
help. After examining the impact of the Award of the Fifth Finance Commission, the 
Planning Commission found that some States had non-Plan deficits and that their additional 
resource mobilisation was being absorbed almost wholly in meeting their overall non-Plan 
deficits, taking both capital and revenue accounts in some cases. The Planning Commission 
therefore asked the Government to make special provision for such States. This 
accommodation is not unconditional. It is subject to the assurance that the States concerned 
will contain the gap within the limits agreed upon and mobilise additional resources to 
the extent expected of them. 


Some hon. Members have attempted to impute political motives. They should at least 
try to take the trouble to verify their facts before making such charges. May I remind those 
who seek every opportunity to malign us that among the States which have welcomed this 
provision are Orissa and Mysore? They recognise that this special accommodation will be 
given according to well-understood criteria. The actual funds to be advanced to the 
individual States will be discussed with the State Governments and the Planning 
Commission, and we shall abide by the technical judgment of the Planning Commission 
in this matter. 


What we have tried to do, and that also to a very small extent, is that whereas the 
States which are relatively better off should make a somewhat larger contribution of their 
own towards their progress, others should receive a somewhat higher assistance from the 
Centre. In relation to industrial development also, we expect the more established houses 
to make a greater contribution from their own resources for their expansion and rely to a 
lesser extent on public financial institutions. This is the general policy which we advocate 
internationally also; that is, the richer countries should help the developing ones. 


A Member, from Tamil Nadu I think, called the Centre a monarch and the States 
mendicants. This is a very misleading description, if I may say so. The Centre 1s neither 
monarch nor mother-in-law as some other people sometimes call it. But as I have done 
previously, I would like to register a protest on behalf of all mothers-in-law in attributing 
such motives to them. 

ae मर 3 We HK aie ae aie मं 


A good step-mother can be just like a mother*. I do not think we should make such 
generalisations. Both under the statute and in the way in which we have worked, the Centre 
and the States are co-workers in development and co-sharers in responsibilities. 


* Referring to Smt. Yashoda Reddy’s remark, “Step-mother”. 


453 


SAS sitet 
a 


ene enn 


_ Now, the hon. Shri A.P. Jain spoke with experience and authority on the problems of 

development in the rural areas. He listed four important factors which give new life to 
land. I should like to add a fifth factor which, I think is equally important, and that is land 
reform. I am sure we know that in the implementation of land reforms, the Centre can 
only prod, exert and persuade, and this we are doing. 


ae a मे ae ak a me aie a 


Shri M.P. Bhargava and Prof. Saiyid Nurul Hasan, both, referred to the affairs of the 
CSIR, I share their concern and 1 confess that I feel that there can be nothing more 
unscientific than when scientists quarrel among themselves. As I have said on previous 
occasions, there are many contributing factors to this and one of them is that whether 
scientists or administrators, we are all human beings and we all suffer from certain human 
failings. This is not the occasion to go into the problems of the C.S.I.R. However, I would 
only like to say that we are lookmg into them. Many scientists are helping us in this matter 
and we hope that we can sort out things soon. 


Prof. Nural Hasan mentioned one other matter, that is, the protection of our 
archaeological monuments. The Government certainly has a great responsibility in 
protecting these monuments and all our national treasures. But some of the monuments 
are in such remote places that the citizen and especially those citizens who have interest 
in this matter should share some of the burden. I think that we should try to educate every 
citizen to become a protector of our architectural treasures and also of our wild life which 
is a treasure of another sort and which 1s fast diminishing. 


Sir, I am intensely aware of the complexity of the financial problems which affect our 
economy. A single Budget cannot by itself make any serious dent on these problems. In 
spite of the criticism about the various aspects of the Budget in this House and outside the 
fact remains that this Budget has evoked the kind of response which no Budget in recent 
years has evoked. 


There is all-round recognition—although in some quarters it is most reluctant—that in 
this Budget there is the minimum possible contradiction between what it professes and 
what it has actually set out to achieve. It will be the continuous endeavour of my 
Government to bridge the gap between profession and practice. 


Sir, may I just add a word with regard to Gujarat ? This House has had a discussion, I 
believe, yesterday and today, and Dr. Sen has said a few words on the subject. We are all 
deeply distressed at this natural calamity which has caused suffering to so many people. 
We have sent some help, as a token until we get further news of what is required. Our 
heart-felt sympathy goes out to the Government and the people of Gujarat and especially 
to those families who have suffered from this disaster. 


454 - 


New Steel Plants* 


... The fourth Five Year Plan has a provision of Rs. 110 crore for the development of 
new Steel plants during the current Plan period. Government have decided that work should 
be started during this Plan period on two integrated plants for the production of mild steel, 
and the third one for special steels. Various alternative sites have been examined for this 
purpose both from the point of view of techno-economic suitability and from that of 
regional development. 


Taking into account the advantage of locating a steel plant in the proximity of a port, 
which should facilitate the export of steel products as well as the import, to the extent 
necessary, of the required raw materials, Government have decided that one of the new 
steel] plants which is to be taken up during the Fourth Plan period should be located 1n the 
coastal] region of Visakhapatnam. 


a मर aK af fe a मं और a 


There are vast resources of iron ore of high quality around Hospet which in the absence 
of a steel plant in the area are, at present, being utilised only partially for export purposes. 
To use this raw material resource-adequately, and at the same time, to develop the industrial 
potential of the area, it has been decided that a steel plant should be constructed in the 
Hospet area in the State of Mysore. 


The proposed plants at Hospet and Visakhapatnam will mainly produce mild steel. There 
is, however, a considerable demand in the country for special steels and a good deal of 
this demand is from the States of Tamil Nadu and Mysore, where there are a large number 
of consuming units for such steel, engaged in the manufacture of engineering goods, 
including automobiles and automobile ancillaries. To meet this demand, and also to 
encourage further industrial development of the area, Government have decided to locate 
a special steel plant in the District of Salem based on the local iron and Neyveli lignite. 


Government propose to initiate the necessary preliminary work on these three steel 
plants within the Fourth Plan period and with the utmost expedition. 


ato मं oe ok a ae ak मं 


* Intervening in the debate on the Demands for Grants, Ministry of Steel and Heavy Engineering, 1970-71, 
LS. Deb., 17 April, 1970, cc. 239-41. 


455 


It has already started*. As the new steel plants are to be designed by Indian engineers 

and the equipment is to be manufactured in India, the programme of construction and 

-erection will have to be suitably drawn up to fit in with the availability of technical 

personnel and-the manufacturing capacities of the engineering units which would be called 
upon to supply the bulk of the equipment for these plants. 


With the growing strength of the country’s industry and economy, the demand for steel 
will progressively increase in future. On a modest estimate, it is expected that the capacity 
for steel-making will have to be doubled every ten years. New steel plants may, therefore, 
have to be erected apart from the three now decided. 


As regards the location of future steel plants, we are fortunate in having a number of 
other sites which are prima facie suitable for such development. These will be taken into 


consideration in the process of rapid development of the steel industry which we now 
envisage. 


* Replying to a Member who asked, ‘When does the Fourth Plan start 7” 


Finance Bill, 1970* 


Sir, I move. 


“That the Bill to give effect to the financial proposals of the Central Government, 
for the financial year 1970-71, be taken into consideration.” 


I had outlined the main features of the proposals contained in the Bill in my Budget 
speech. The details of the specific provisions in the Bill have also been set forth in the 
Explanatory Memorandum circulated to hon. Members, along with the Budget papers. 
Hence, it is hardly necessary to go over the ground again. On the present occasion, I should 
like merely to explain the principal changes that are proposed to be introduced in the 
provisions of the Bill. In deciding on these changes, the valuable suggestions made by 
hon. Members and others, during the past eight weeks have been taken into account. 


The Central objective of the Budget proposals has been widely appreciated both in 
this House and outside. There is little reason, therefore, to disturb the general structure of 
the fiscal proposals in the Bill. The Bill gives concrete shape to the task of reconciling the 
need for augmented revenues for developmental purpose, with that of using the fiscal device 
for furthering distributive justice. Through these amendments, I propose to suggest a few 
changes which would make the fiscal proposals in certain instances more rational, and, in 
certain other cases, more purposive to achieve the stated goals. 


I shall start with direct taxes. The relevant proposals in the Bill, while aiming to reduce 
the more extreme forms of income inequalities and to plug loopholes in the law leading 
to tax avoidance, also take care to provide greater incentives to savings and investments. 
The Bill makes provision to exempt from tax income upto Rs. 3000 in a year, derived 
from invesments in certain specified categories of financial assets : investments in such 
assets upto Rs. 1.5 lakhs are also being exempted from wealth tax. It is now proposed to 
include into those categories of investments also the deposits with State Financial 
Corporations and other approved long-term financial institutions, this is being done to 
enable these equally worthy institutions also to attract deposits from members of the public 


for nation-building purposes. 


The tax on the interest payable by banks to their constituents is at present deductible 
at source. In the context of the Government’s policy to extend significantly the coverage 


* While moving the Finance Bill and replying to the debate on it, LS. Deb., 1,5 and 6 May, 1970, cc. (respectively), 
249-57, 276-85 and 350-53. 


457 


of banking to rural areas, it would be justifiable to alter this arrangement on administrative 
grounds. I propose to amend the relevant provision in the Income Tax Act so as to exempt, 
from deduction of tax at source, the interest earned from deposits with banking companies 
including co-operative banks. 


In regard to charitable and religious trusts, the Bill makes certain changes in the existing 
law so as to check abuses which have come to light, and reduce the scope for the use of 
these trust funds to acquire control of industry and business in which author and his relatives 
are interested. These provisions 1n the Bill have been widely acclaimed, and there is no 
reason to make any major changes in the proposals. At the same time, while replying to 
the general discussion on the Budget, I did indicate that we would try to remove any genuine 
difficulties, which may be faced by the affected parties in complying with some of the 
conditions introduced in the Bill. Under the Bill, the facility enjoyed earlier by a charitable 
or religious trust to accumulate 25 per cent of its current income has been withdrawn. 
However, as hon. Members are aware, there is already a provision in the existing law where 
by such a trust can accumulate its current income without attracting tax liability for a 
maximum period of 10 years, for purposes authorised under the terms of the trust, provided 
the funds so accumulated are invested in Government securities. It has been brought to 
my notice that the requirement to invest the accumulated income exclusively in Government 
securities is unduly restrictive, in that the funds so invested, would not be readily available 
to the trust in times of natural calamities like floods and earthquakes; this restriction may 
also involve risk. of loss when the investments are needed to be disposed of before maturity. 
In order to remove this unintended hardship, I now propose to amend the relevant provision 
in the Bill so as to allow the investment of accumulated income also in the form of deposits 
with the post office saving banks, with banking companies including co-operative banks, 
as well as with approved long-term financial institutions such as State Financial 
Corporations. 


Under the Bill, a charitable or religious trust is liable to forfeit the exemption from tax 
on its income, if the income or property of the trust is used to provide direct or indirect 
benefit to the author of the trust or his relatives. The Bill sets forth examples of transactions 
which would be regarded as providing indirect benefits. A trust or institution which engaged 
in any of these transactions at any time during the previous year relevant to the assessment 
year 1971-72, would forfeit the exemption from tax on its income for that year. As the 
previous year relevant to the assessment year 1971-72, could at the option of the trust, be 

.the financial year 1970-71 or the calender year 1970 or the year ending on Diwali in 
October, 1970, or even the year ending on 30th June, 1970, trusts which may already have 
engaged in these prohibited transactions before the announcement of the Budget proposals 
on February 28, 1970, would normally forfeit exemption from tax on their current income. 
Such a result would be unintended in the case of religious trusts as also in the case of the 
charitable trusts established before April 1, 1962, since the proposals in the Budget could 
not have been anticipated. I therefore propose to provide that in the case of such trusts, 
any use of the trust income or income or property to provide direct or indirect benefits to 
the author, founder or any of his relatives in relation to any period upto 31st May, 1970 
would not entail forfeiture of the exemption from tax on their current income. 


458 : 


Another circumstance specified in the Bill, which would lead to a complete forfeiture 
of the exemption from tax, is the investment of the trust funds, in any concern in which 
the author or founder of the trust or any of his relatives has a substantial interest, and the 
amount of the investment exceeds 5 per cent of the capital of that concern. In order to 
comply with the provision, a fairly large number of trusts and institutions would have to 
change their pattern of investments in order that they do not forfeit the exemption from 
tax on their current income. It has been represented that, unless a certain minimum time 
is allowed for the rearrangement of investments, there would be danger of widespread 
capital loss, since any sudden rush for the sale of such shares in the market, could have a 
depressing effect on share prices. In order to remove any bona fide difficulties, which trust 
may face in complying with this provision, I propose to allow them time upto 31st 
December, 1970, to alter suitably their portfolio of investment. 


A related minor change is also proposed to be introduced. As I have just explained a 
charitable trust, under the proposals in the Bill, is liable to forfeit completely, the exemption 
from tax on its income if its funds are invested in any concern in which the author, founder 
or any of his relatives has a substantial interest. However where the amount of investment 
does not exceed 5 per cent of the capital of that concern, such a trust would lose its 
exemption, only in respect of the income derived from that investment. But persons making 
donations to such an institution are liable to forfiet the tax relief which they would otherwise 
be entitled to obtain in respect of their donations. It is proposed to introduce a specific 
provision, that persons making donations to a trust will continue to be eligible for tax relief, 
so long as the quantum of investment in any of the prohibited concerns does not exceed 5 
per cent of the capital of such concerns. 


Under the Bill, capital gains arising from the transfer of agricultural land situated within 
the limits of any municipality or Cantonment Board, which has a population of not less 
than 10,000 persons, will hereafter, be subjected to income tax. However, there will be 
instances, where agricultural lands in such municipal or other urban areas are held for bona 
fide agricultural proposes, often as the main source of livelihood. Where the holder of such 
land sells it, but acquires some other land elsewhere, in order to continue his agricultural 
occupation, it would be justifiable to exempt from tax, the capita] gain arising to him, out 
of such a transaction; an amendment is being introduced to this end. 


Under the provisions of the Bill, discretionary trust-often created in order to evade or 
avoid taxation—are to be taxed at a flat rate of 65 per cent on their incomes and 1.5 per 
cent on their wealth, or at the rates, applicable to individuals, whichever is higher. However, 
I had said in my Budget speech that steps would be taken to exempt certain categories of 
exiting discretionary trusts from taxation at these flat rates. The provisions will not apply 
to trusts, created by employers for the benefit of their employees, such as provident funds, 
superannuation funds, gratuity funds, pension funds, etc; the necessary amendments are 


being moved. 
I now refer to an amendment to the Wealth Tax. Until now, a farm house was exempt 


from the Wealth Tax, irrespective of the value of the house. Under a proposal in the Bill, 
such exemption would henceforth be limited to Rs. 1 lakh. For persons having extensive 


agricultural holdings, however, there may be farm houses situated in the midst of such 
holdiags, the value of which may even exceed Rs. 1 lakh such persons may also own a 
residential house apart from the farm house. As the mainteriance of a farm house is essential 
to direct agricultural operations. I propose to restore the status quo ante, and exempt 
altogether such a house from the liability under the Wealth Tax, irrespective of value. 


We now come to the proposals in the Bill regarding indirect taxation. May I stress 
again what I have said in my budget speech and in my reply to the general discussion on 
the Budget ? In the present circumstances, we can scarcely ignore the role, which indirect 
taxes can play in broadening and strengthening the fiscal system. The major aim of fiscal 
proposals, with respect to indirect levies, is to augment our export effect, discourage the 
consumption of certain items, and protect the interests of the poorer sections of the 
community. I do not believe that the package of proposals will disturb the general price 
stability either. Representations have, however, been made about the likely effects of some 
individual proposals. These have received our most careful consideration, and we propose 
to introduce a number of modifications, particularly to remove any hardships which the 
manufactures in the small scale sector may encounter. 


A number of representations have been received from the decentralised sector of the 
art silk industry, expressing concern over the difficulties, which they think might arise with 
the declaration of values for purposes of assessment. It has also been urged that the price 
limit of Rs. 2.50 per sq. metre, upto which the rate of duty would be 3 per cent ad valorem 
does not ensure that the common man’s fabrics are taxed at a level, not exceeding the 
specific rates effective before the budget proposals. It is now proposed to fix tanff values, 
for the assessment of most varieties of art silk fabrics, which would simplify the process 
of aseessment. At the same time, the slab up to which the effective rate of duty is to be 
3 per cent, is proposed to be raised from Rs. 2.50 to Rs. 3.00 per sq. metre. It is also 
proposed to give a reduction of 5 per cent in the duty chargeable on fabrics, processed by 
“independent processors” when the grey cloth brought to such processing houses, is 
delivered to the owner, after processing, in an uncut condition. 


Hon. Members will recall that I had proposed the levy of 20 per cent duty on television 
sets with great reluctance. At the present stage of our economy, only the relatively better- 
off can afford a television set, but television has an educative value in our conditions, and 
as the TV manufacturing industry is in its infancy, I feel that the balance of advantage hies 
in levying a some what lower duty than was originally proposed. I, therefore, propose to 
reduce the excise duty on this item from 20 per cent to 10 per cent ad valorem. To provide 
a further stimulus to the indigenous industry, certain other ancillary measures, such as 
reviewing the facilities provided under the existing Baggage Rules, and ower regulations, 
which enable television sets to be brought into the country in large numbers, without the 
payment of duty, are being considered. 


The abolition of export duty on tea has generally been welcomed. The increase in the 
zonal excise duties has, however, brought forth a large number of representations from 
tea producers, especially those among the weaker sectors, who stand to benefit less from 
the export duty reduction, but whose excise duty liability has gone up, because of the 


predominance of internal sales over their export sales. There does not seem to be any 
justifiable case for an overall reduction of excise duties. However, some changes are 
necessary in the incidence of duty, on those gardens, which are small or the quality of 
whose tea is inferior, and fetches low prices. In proposing modifications in the levy, I have 
kept in view the special problems of the small tea gardens in the Nilgiri district, and also 
in the Assam and Darjeeling areas. I propose to limit the excise duty incidence to 70 paise 
per kg. in respect of tea cleared in the rest of the financial year 1970-71 which is sold at a 
price not exceeding Rs. 5 per kg. The details of procedure to give effect to this concession, 
are being worked out, and will be notified separately. In addition, the 10% reduction in 
excise duty available to cooperative factories is being extended to ‘bought-leaf’ factories. 


| now turn to a few of the excises to proposed on commodities, where a sizeable 
production is in the small-scale sector. It is my intention to make these provisions, the 
least onerous for the small manufactures. I, therefore, propose to exempt wholly from excise 
duty, the production of metal containers, safes and strong boxes by units which do not use 
power. I also propose to exempt from excise duty, units which manufacture safes and strong 
boxes upto a value of Rs. 50,000, provided, that the total annual output of such a unit 
does not exceed Rs. 2 lakhs in value. This exemption will also extend to the manufactures 
of biscuits. In the case of metal containers, the exemption limit is being fixed at a still 
higher level of Rs. 1 lakh, since the value of such containers would include the component 
of duty paid on tin plate used as raw material. 


I should not like the cause of education to suffer, hence mathematical boxes, geometry 
boxes and colouring boxes used for students and children, irrespective of whether those 
are manufactured in the organised of small scale sector, will also wholly be exempted, 
from excise duty. 


It is necessary to clarify, and in some instances, marginally alter, the fiscal proposals 
in respect of pasteurised butter, refrigerating and air-conditioning appliances, and plastics. 
Pasteurised butter, which is used in the same factory, either for making ghee or for re- 
constituting into milk, will not be charged to duty. Apart from the concession extended to 
components, intended for the sctting up of air conditioning plants in hospitals, room-and 
package-type air-conditioners, also, if they are installed in hospitals, will get the benefit 
of exemption from the increases proposed in the Budget. Cold storage plants already enjoy 
a concessional rate of duty. this concession is being extended to fish-freezing plants. In 
the case of plastics, certain anomalies resulting from the proposed levy only P.V.C. sheets 


are being rectified. 


I should like to clarify that it was not our intention to bring sago, vermicelli and 
arrowroot, within the purview of the excise levy on prepared and ‘preserved foods’. 
Similarly, the levy on aerated water is confined only to products, which are manufactured 
with the aid of power, and are marketed with a registered brand name or trade mark. 


As hon. Members are aware, in order to stimulate the handloom sector of the cotton 
textile industry, we have already made effective an exemption from excised duty, of hank 
yarn of counts less than 40 N.F. and reduced considerably the duty on hank yarn of higher 


90070770777027007 7007 2270000 Bose x 
12021 20220 27000 72:28 पट 
ou 0 AY 


occas BR pees pe a Be 3 5556 on 
eK a an ad ee थी। te =) 22, ne ay ad Sd 
BRS SSC De HORS POC ISS 


00000 0000 000668 


counts. I now propose to extend the provision of total exemption to hank yarn in plain 
straight reels for counts other than 51 N.F. 


Lastly I come to the representations made be certain sections of the book—trade 
regarding the adjustments proposed in the postal tariffs, particularly regarding V.P.P. fees. 
As the proposed increase in fees on items of lesser value is rather steep. I propose that the 
V.P.P. charges be retained at 10 paise for all packets upto Rs. 10 in value. 


The changes proposed in direct taxes are not expected to have any significant impact 
on revenue. The adjustment in excise duties would imply a reduction in revenue to the 
extent of Rs. 1.80 crore of which, about one-half would be because of the changes related 
to tea. The effect of the change in the V.P.P. rates would be approximately Rs. 8 lakhs. 


Mr. Deputy-Speaker, may I conclude by saying that we have made an effort to remove 
the genuine difficulties, which might have arisen because of some of the measures proposed 
for direct and indirect taxation. In so doing, we have accepted a marginal sacrifice of 
resources. I know that this will not satisfy all hon. Members. However, we cannot escape 


from the stern obligation to mobilise resources for our development. Such a mobilisation 
imposes burdens on all sections of our people and calls for sacrifices. But we have sincerely : 
endeavoured to ensure that the burdens do not fall heavily on those who are least able to oS 
bear them. 


Sir, I move. 


2K kK aK A मर ac जर मु 


*Mr. Speaker, Sir, I should like to thank and congratulate the hon. Member who have 
spoken in the course of the discussion, for having maintained a high level of debate and 
focussed the attention of the House on the features of the Finance Bill. I am particularly 
glad that the debate has been free from acrimony, wild accusations and personal attacks 
except for two of my hon. friends opposite. 


Hon. Members have displayed commendable forensic skill. Some of it was wasted, 
for it merely traversed the ground already covered during the general discussions on the 
Budget. 


Before I deal with some of the specific points raised, for example, by Shn Dandeker, 


Shri Shantilal Shah and Shri Kothari, I should like once more to remind hon. Members of ee 
the rationale of the original Budget proposals. The Budget, as Dr. Nayar said just now, is : 
an expression of the Government’s political will; it sets forth what the Government aspires ee 
to do, and details the measures, fiscal or otherwise, that are considered necessary to fulfil - 
these aspirations. We have to restore the impulse of growth to the nation; there has been a 2266 
veil of economic stagnation in recent years and this must be lifted. Investments in the 
economy must therefore be properly augmented so that income and employment can both | 

* While replying to the debate on 5 May, 1970. 


. 22 7८ 6०८ ue PEROT: "24५८ 
DL BMT 22:22 77 
८277172:/2777:0:::72:25:::2 
22272 Gee GE 
CARNE ee OPEL 22%, a 2:22: > MLL OT Te cee Fee eget Ge eg THERE ALO OG ES OT DIOS: caus 91४८ See cee OSCR 
CPSC RRO LO POLES 5 222 NG एज एन toh फल कमर 16 मम 1 आ  22771 


rise. There is no escape from the fact that in order to restore the impulse of growth, it will 
be necessary to raise additional resources for the public sector. The proportion of public 
Savings to national income has to be raised and in order to do so, the proportion of public 
revenue to national income has also to be raised. Certain short-term sacrifices are involved 
in the process, but if the country has to advance at an accelerated rate, we cannot possibly 
flinch from the task of raising additional revenue, however disagreeable inconvenient this 
might be to some. 


But this additional taxation must not be at the cost of the other objective we have placed 
before ourselves, that is, a progressive reduction in inequalities, which are at present 
rampant in our society, with respect to incomes, wealth and consumption. I do not think 
that there is any need to apologize for the general structure of the taxes proposed in the 
Budget. Given the limits set, in the short period to available resources, we cannot, in the 
course of a single year, ensure that income and employment are expanded at a tremendously 
faster rate. But the general intent in the Budget is unmistakable. As I have said on other 
occasions, a beginning has been made through various programmes to expand employment 
Opportunities and to narrow the more blatant income inequalities. 


Some hon. Members opposite have bewailed the fact that this year we have further 
enhanced the taxation rate on the upper ranges of personal incomes. Their concern is 
probably sincere, but everything depends on the angle from which one views it. Comparison 
with other countries has little meaning, for even if one takes into account the per capita 
income levels, our nation, is in the overall, one of the least taxed in the world, and even 
the high marginal rates of taxation for personal incomes get considerably reduced after 
the various exemptions are allowed. 


Shri Dandeker is worried about the impact of various excises and the proposed deficit 
financing on the level of prices and on the cost of living of the common people. The worry 
is well-intentioned, even though not based on fiscal reality. May I repeat yet again that in 
framing the proposal for excise levies, I have taken the maximum care to ensure that the 
burden on the poorer sections of the community, will be the lightest. 


ak मं 2 fe 2k 2 मंद मर 


That is true but it cannot be avoided. *All one can do, is to try to make it less than on 
others. 

If excises on refrigerators and tinned fruits and delicacies are levied, I can assure Shri 
Dandeker that the common people are not affected. If excises on brandy, gin and whisky 
are increased again, the cost of living of the poorer people does not go up. 


Some hon. Members mentioned T.V. Now, the intention is not that the ncher people 
should have more TV sets, but that in the state of our economy, TV could be of tremendous 


help to the farmer and to the teacher, and this point of view has been kept.... 


aK मर भर 


ae af भर we ae भर 


* Replying to a Member's observation, “But there 15 burden on them.’ 


20 2; 22९४ पे See ROR a ४८ oe ० Se oS Ss aan ek 
cae noe 2:72 i coh 22228 7 a 10022: ee 22 2228 
a 12202: 02828 22 २०४ 2४ 52262 200226000022:222% ५2०: 80007:705:0:% 8:22: ///:८2:०:: ०८६८ 


463 


Last Friday, I proposed certain special reliefs to help small manufacturers and artisans. 


~ Gare has also been taken to lower the burden of excise duty on the cheaper varieties of 
tea generally consumed by the common people. I am 35 much concerned about prices and Se 
for legitimate reasons, as are hon. Members. It is the Government which has to face न 
agitations and protests, if prices start rising... o 
FOR ak 2k अर ae 2k 2k 

The price situation must be continuously watched. : 


Tues 


. 
८0, 
० 


see 


१. ०३०००.०/ ०६० 
Spas 


The hon. Member Shri N. Dandeker also alleged that we have over-estimated revenue 
and that, therefore, deficit financing, in 1970-71 is likely to be of the order of Rs. 450 : 
crore and not Rs. 225 crore. I must disappoint him on this score. The latest figures of 
revenue collections suggest that even for 1969-70, the budgetary deficit is likely to be much 
less than the Rs. 290 crore, estimated earlier. One of the major factors for this is an 
improvement in the collections under income-tax and corporation tax. Since this 
improvement in the collections for the last year is bound to have a favourable effect on 
collections during 1970-71 also, there are fair chances that the need for deficit financing 
can and will be kept down. 


meee 


Shni Shantlal Shah has paid a compliment though in rather a dubious manner, if I may 
say so. He admitted the buoyancy of share prices, but found a wrong and farfetched reason 
for it. Shri N. Dandeker maintained that the initial buoyancy has now begun to collapse. 
My hon. fnend Shn S.R. Damani has effectively countered this statement. 


मैप मंच ae ae मंध् मे ae मंद मंद 


Now Shri Shah cannot have it both ways. The stock exchange reacted favourably to 
the budget because despite the usual noises made for the sake of record, 11 does ensure the 
cause of healthy corporate growth. 


Members of the Swatantra and Jan Sangh complained that our corporate taxation is 
high, that in fact, it is the highest in the world with few exceptions. They have argued that 
although the rates of corporate taxation have not been increased, there would be a rise in 
the incidence of tax on the corporate sector because of the lapsing or diminution of some 
of the tax concessions so far available. These critics conveniently overlook the several 
concessions which soften the incidence. Even with the lapsing of the incentives, such as 
the tax credit certificates or the reduction in the rates of development rebate, the net 
incidence on the corporate sector will not be affected to any significant extent. Obviously, 
the development rebate cannot be a permanent part of our tax structure. One has to make 
a beginning sometime or other to reduce it, With an eye on its ultimate abolition. The 
intention of Government in this regard was announced as early as 1965. No change has 
been made in this year’s budget. 


These hon. Members referred to the withdrawal of deductions for entertainment ne 
expenditure. I hope I am not a kill-joy. We are not against companies entertaining people : 
from within the country or abroad. But we do say that this should not count as deductible 


expenditure so far as taxation is concerned. Affluent countries such as the U.K. and Canada 
have decided to do away with the expense account. 


seek a ae के a a a 


Shri Kothari’s other point was that the increase in personal taxation would weigh heavily 
on intellectuals, professionals and technical people generally. He pleaded for more generous 
treatment to these classes. Now, one would obviously like to help as many people as one 
possibly could, but the base of our tax-paying community is so narrow that there is hardly 
any room for manoeuvrability, and the higher contribution must inevitably come from those 
in the relatively higher income brackets. 


Several Members spoke about charitable trusts. Shri Shantilal Shah suggested that if 
charitable trusts were to be regulated and abuses eliminated, this should be done by a 
separate law and not through the instrument of taxation. This is a matter for the States to 
consider and undertake. What the tax law seeks to do, is to put charitable trusts on notice 
that they cannot enjoy tax exemption, if at the same time, they use their funds to provide 
direct or indirect benefits of various kinds to the author and other persons connected with 
him, instead of using these to serve the purposes for which the trust was established. 


I am sure the House will agree that the instrument of taxation is a potent instrument to 


keep these trusts in line. Some hon. Members deemed it unreasonable to ask charitable: 


trusts to make returns of their income, if they did not have to pay tax. Whether they have 
to pay tax or not, can be determined only if the trusts furnish the details of their accounts 
and returns of income, to tax authorities. Even now, some sort of check is exercised when 
charitable trusts come up for exemption certificates. 


Some hon. Members, including Shri Dwivedy, voiced a demand to raise the exemption 
limit. I can understand the concern of hon. Members for further relief for middle income 
groups, but I think the figure Shri Dwivedy mentioned was not quite correct, because to 
raise the exemption limit even to Rs. 6,000 would have meant a further loss of Rs. 18 
crore. But I should like them to appreciate that the limit of Rs. 5,000, low as it is in absolute 
terms, is still quite high in relation to the low level of incomes of a vast majority of our 
people. Also although the exemption limit is only Rs. 5,000 in effect it is closer to Rs. 
6,000, if we take into account the deductions allowed to salaried tax-payers for expenditure 
incurred on travelling for purposes of employment besides the deductions for certain 
approved contractual savings such as through life insurance, provident fund etc. On the 
whole we expect about five lakhs of assessees to be taken off the register of the income 


tax Department as a result of these changes. 


Some hon. Members, and the last speaker also, Dr. Nayar, spoke about the idea which 
I had thrown out in the presentation of the Budget to combine the incomes of husbands 
and wives. I had thought to bring greater harmony to married life, and certainly not to put 
the clock back or in any way to come in the way of women’s further emancipation. My 
intention, as I had said then, was to have a discussion on the subject and to have the views 
of the Members. There has been discussion and also a spate or representations, some of 


465 


which have belied the normal male presumption that only they can put forward a point of 
view with cogency and vehemence. Anyhow, this does not from part of the Finance Bill. 


Many Members have spoken about the problems of different States. I do not think that 
this is the occasion to go into them. Within the general constraint or resources, the Central 
Government tries to meet the needs of States to the maximum extent possible, but I should 
just like to touch on one or two points which were raised. Hon. Member Shri Raj Deo 
Singh spoke of the housing loan to U.P. and compared 1 with the loan given to another 
State. U.P. had drawn Rs. 801 lakhs and spent only Rs. 669.39 lakhs. Normally this rate 
of expenditure does not justify any further allocation during the current year. Nevertheless, 
in view of certain special projects, 1 crore has been allocated to U.P. 


With regard to West Bengal, we are fully conscious of the very special importance of 
the problems of Calcutta as well as of rural Bengal. We are pursuing these matters and 
doing everything possible to expedite surveys and also the implementation of the various 
schemes. 


One hon. Member *spoke about Assam. Perhaps he did not know that the paper mill 
project which he mentioned has already been sanctioned. 


I had thought that with the announcement of three steel plants, we had got rid of this 
problem at least for some time, but it seems to be very much with us. Hon. Member Shri 
Dwivedy spoke passionately on the subject, but he was replied to immediately by my friend 
Shri Naidu on behalf of Andhra Pradesh, and later on when Shri Dwivedy was not in the 
House, by Shri Viswanatham also. 


aK ae मर ae ae a ae ae और 


Shri Viswanatham has replied to that by saying that it was many years ago, in 1963, 
when these matters were taken up that a decision was taken for all practical purposes but 
for some reason it was shelved. In between, there were many troubles, and we did think 
that we should not take up the projects immediately, but there were complete surveys and 
much work was done. So, the decision was not a sudden one. As a mater of fact, even 
after this decision was taken we did not announce it immediately because we wanted to 
settle various details. I think hon. Members know that the overall working of steel plants 
has improved Bhilai is now giving profit, and as for Rourkela, Shri Surendranath Dwivedy 
has referred to it; as hon. Members know, Rourkela is in Orissa, and it has also improved 
somewhat, although not as much as we would have liked it to do altnough Rourkela also 
has been expanded. 


The agricultural wealth tax was touched upon by many hon. Members. I think that 
there is some misconception about this. This tax will affect only those whose lands are 
worth over Rs. 1.5 lakh, over and above the general exemption limit of Rs. 1 lakh of wealth. 
Therefore, by no stretch of imagination, can one Say that it is going to affect the poor farmer. 


fe मर aie ai 2h a aK मंद गुर 


_ '* Shri R. Barua. 


I agree with the hon. Member* that there are not many rich farmers, but there are rich 
farmers. The number of non-rich farmers is very much greater, and if we are to help them, 
then I think that it is in the interests of the richer farmers also to contribute so that the 
general level in the village and so on increases and makes for greater stability and 
improvement in the general rural scene. 


As regards sugar, the increase in excise duty on levy sugar is only marginal. Even in 
some zones, because of the readjustment of the prices of levy sugar, in spite of the increase 
in duty, the prices to consumers have come down. For instance, in the Delhi market, I am 
told that it has dropped from Rs. 1.94 per k.g. to Rs. 1.78 per k.g. Free sale sugar has also 
registered a perceptible fall in prices in the post-budget period. As a consequence, retail 
prices have come down by about 10 to 15 paise per k.g. in spite of the increase in excise 
duty. In the Delhi market, retail prices of free sale sugar which was round about Rs. 2.10 
per k.g. in the immediate pre-budget period has now come down to Rs.1.95 per k.g. With 
the fall in prices, the tariff value fixed for the collection of duty on free sale sugar has 
dropped from Rs. 1.50 per k.g. in March to about Rs. 1.20 per k.g. now, and as 
consequence, in the post-budget period, the duty in absolute terms has fallen by about 11 
paise per k.g. However, we are keeping the situation constantly under review. 


As I have explained earlier, the object of increasing the excise duty on tea is mainly to 
make up the substantial loss sustained by the abolition of export duty as well as the grant 
of partial rebate on quality teas exported. The measure of relief given on export duties has 
generally been welcomed, as it would help to retain our hold in the foreign market and to 
improve on our past levels of export in the near future. At the same time, it is necessary to 
make up the loss, at least partially by levying somthing more on teas which are consumed 
internally. But here again, as I have said earlier, care has been taken to see that the net 
duties are left unaffected or only marginally touched. The superior teas, however, will bear 
a somewhat higher burden, but to the extent that these teas are diverted to the export market, 
the economy would stand to gain by way of larger foreign exchange earnings. The problem 
of giving some relief to the weaker sector of the tea industry has also been taken care of. 
We have recently decided to limit the duty to 70 paise per k.g. in the case of those tea 
gardens whose average realisation in the past three years on all their sales in the approved 
auction centres is less than Rs. 5 per kg. The details of these proposals are being worked 
out and we hope to finalise them quite soon. 


There is an impression that if a tax 1s levied, 1t means that we are against that industry 
or occupation or that group of people. This is an erroneous idea, because even though people 
may be doing something worth-while, they would still have to contribute to helping those 
who are much worse off than they are. 


It is strange that people are against taxes, at the same time, they want more to be done 
for different sections, for example, for the unemployed. The basic solution to this problem 
lies in expanded investments all along the line. Employment is a function of economic 
growth. Private investment on its own has failed to ignite the spark of growth in recent 


* Shri Chengalraya Naidu. 


467 


years, which is why, in this year’s budget, we have purposely provided for nearly 20 per 

- cent increase in public outlay, and have specially planned certain projects which would be 
‘biased towards the creation of employment opportunities. I do admit that this marks only 
a small beginning, and much has to be done before we can catch up with the backlog. 


But we must have certain logic in our remarks. If we want more employment we must 
also accept the imperative need for additional resources. It is not easy to evolve a fiscal 
system which will, at all points of time, satisfy all sections of the community. But our 
objective in this year’s budget was stated clearly—we must combine the fiscal imperatives 
of growth with the needs for the maximum social objective achievable in the short period. 
Also some amendments have been moved, which will make the fiscal proposals more 
rational and purposive. The proposals are now before the House ; they do not represent 
all that we would like to do but what is possible in a given situation and in particular 
circumstances. 


aK ec मं He ac ae aie 2 aie 


First™ of all, I should like to express my appreciation and thanks for the high level of 
the debate, which Members on all sides of the House have maintained throughout the 
discussion on the Finance Bull. I should like to thank the hon. Members for the consideration 
and the courtesy which they showed me throughout the course of this debate. I wish it 
had been possible for me to respond in a more generous manner to the very useful 
suggestions which were made by some of them. But hon. Members are aware that our 
task 1s a long and arduous one and we have chosen the most difficult manner in which to 
achieve it; that is, with the consent of the people. And the people’s views vary greatly. 
Each one of us sitting in this House has been elected by the people, and can claim to speak ae ne 
to some extent for the people from where he comes. And yet, we express very divergent is . : 
views. So, in order to do anything, it is necessary to try and follow a road on which if one oe 
cannot take the people wholly with one, one can at least take them partly. This is what we 
are endeavouring to do. And it 1s only the imperative needs for the mobilisation of resources, 
without which we cannot implement our programmes for development and for the progress 
of the nation, which has made it difficult for the Government to accept some of the 
suggestions for tax relief. However justifiable these suggestions might, otherwise be. 


In the course of the speeches of hon. Members one gets an impression that they regard 
taxation as a kind of punishment; they say such and such work 1s deserving such and such 
group is a good one; and ask why they should be taxed. As I have tried to explain earlier, 
taxation is only a method by which in a way you get the cooperation of the people. In 
India we have a tremendous task on our shoulders. 


One hon. Member, I think of the Swatantra party, has talked of the burden of taxation. 
It is true the burden of taxation is there. But there is another burden, the burden that has 
been on the Indian people for hundreds of years, the burden of poverty, the burden of 
economic backwardness, the burden of social injustice. These can only be removed if we 


* While concluding the debate on the Finance Bill, 1970, on 6 May, 1970. 


can go ahead with certain programmes. We cannot go ahead with them unless all the people 
cooperate in this task and the people cannot, mean a few of the rich. We have increased 
the taxation on the richer sections and all day we have heard from one section of the House, 
how very steep and unbearable this is for them. So, we have made an effort, but it is not 
enough. Every single person who gets a little more than his brothers and sisters must 
contribute something for the welfare of those who have less than he has. This is the burden 
of this budget and this must be the burden of our lives in India. 


Somebody talked of a holiday from excise duties. I think it was Shri Viswanatham. I 
am afraid there can be no holiday for us here. As my father said, these are years of hard 
work and burdens—financial burdens, work burdens and all kinds of other burdens. This 
is not the time to let up or sit back. An hon, Member asked, is the person who gets Rs. 
7000 rich ? From which angle do you approach the question ? He may not be rich from 
my angle or from the hon. member’s angle, but he is certainly rich from the angle of the 
adivasi in a remote area of Orissa or Bihar or somewhere else or some of the people who 
live in the slums here. It is a question of relative richness and relative poverty and relative 
Capacity to bear the burden. 


In this budget, we have not tried to spare anybody, because we felt that it was not a 
burden, but it is really a privilege for people to participate and to help in this great adventure 
of building a new India. We have heard a lot of talk about incentives. I think there can be 
no greater incentive than for us to feel that we are ourselves involved in this task. We 
know sometimes when we collect funds that it is the poorer people who give with the 
greatest enthusiasm. Quite often they cannot afford what they give. Even when funds were 
being collected after the fighting on our borders in 1965, if, one compared the earnings 
of the people with how much they gave, one would have no hesitation in saying that the 
poorer people gave more than the others. Yet they gave. There was no coercion or even 
persuasion. They gave because they wanted to be a past of the Defence of India, in 
strengthening the nation. That is the kind of attitude we want from those who can well 
afford to give. Therefore, I hope that hon. Members will start this new financial year with 
this new attitude. 


I am glad that some members have spoken of the spirit of cooperation. It is true that 
nothing at all can be achieved without cooperation. We must try to see how we can all 
work-together. An hon. Member said—I do not remember who—that I should have an open 
mind. I think I do have a open mind, but hon. Members will agree that the mind should 
not be a passage. After considering the problem it has to be closed down on something, 


on some ideology, on some programme. 


As I have said, the fight against poverty and against our many problems is a long one 
and the work of rebuilding our social structure cannot be accomplished in just a few years. 
However much we desire it, however hard we work, however much we can mobilise 
resources, even then it cannot be achieved in just a few years. Disparities cannot be ended 
immediately. So, it is a long road and each new step needs careful thought and preparation. 
It is easy enough to say that one should suddenly and immediately sweep away the whole 
system and the whole establishment as it exists today. It is easy to say, but this also would 


exact a heavy price. Would the paying of such price at this moment accelerate our 
development ? Would that help us move faster or would it delay us ? Today all Members, 
even those who have criticised us, have pointed out that we are poised for quick advance. 

Let us take advantage of this situation and work together and in harmony, I am sure that 

the process of development will gain in tempo and that we will be able to achieve the 

aims which we have set for ourselves. I do not believe in tall talk; nor have I ever indulged 

in it. I have not used extravagant phrases regarding what we want to do. On the contrary, 

I have deliberately under stated what we have to do, so that perhaps, we will be able to do 

more than that. May I hope that in this task I shall have the understanding cooperation of 

the whole House ? Once agian I would like to thank you and the hon. Members. 


<—, 


MPD 


1३० 
2 
oe 
oe 
३ 
22 
: 
: 
LA 
so 


२7:72770072:::0::00:::70:7:::::::: 
Sees Saucer 


RS 
02:72: 
220022:52%: 


a 
ers 
57२ 


470 ‘ 


Implementation of Fourth Five-Year Plan* 


I move: 


That the Fourth Five-Year Plan 1969-74 laid on the Table of the Rajya Sabha on the 
18th May, 1970 be taken into consideration. 


Sir, in previous years, when the Plan was presented to the House, the Prime Minister 
made an introductory statement outlining the direction and the main features of the Plan. 
However, I think that this time the situation is somewhat different. We have already 
discussed the draft Plan and basic approach of the Plan in detail in this House. Its objectives 
and the policies needed to fulfil those objectives have been outlined in the Plan Document 
itself. Also I have given my own ideas in the preface to the Plan which was placed on the 
Table of the House some days ago. I feel, therefore, that, perhaps it would be more useful 
if I gave this extra time to the House, to the Members, to place their views before us and, 
later on, in the course of my reply to the debate, I shall try to touch upon the objectives, 
the priorities of the Plan and what contribution the Plan may be expected to make to the 
solution of the important problem which faces us. However, with your permission and the 
permission of the members, I should like to make one or two points about the Plan. I would 
like to draw the attention of Members to the revised Plan which envisages an increase of 
Rs. 1500 crore on public sector programmes. It is true that part of this increase is on account 
of certain accounting adjustments but the more significant part of it is because of new 
programmes. The State Plans have been increased by Rs. 540 crore and the Central Plan 
has an additional provision of Rs. 545 crore in support of State programmes through various 
Organisations such as the Agricultural Refinance Corporation, the Law Development 
Corporation, the Rural Electrification Corporation and so on. Whenever we have discussed 
the Plan, the Members have pointed out that the Plan falls short of what needs to be done. 
This is true. I myself have made this comment that it does fall short not only of what we 
need in the country but of what the people expect us. But the very process of planning 
means phased development. We have before us stupendous problems. Also the needs of 
the people are not static, they are constantly growing. But we have limited resources. We 
have to balance our needs against the available resources and hence, a situation arises where 
quite often we have to postpone certain items which we all consider important and essential, 
because of the limitation of resources. Thus we are in a continuous stage or process of 
enlarging the Plan. The Plan is not a grandiose one. It has tried to be realistic and it strives 
to make a modest contribution to the fulfilment of our twin objectives, that is, of Growth 


* While moving a Motion for taking into consideration the Fourth Five-Year Plan, R.S. Deb., 11 August, 1970, 
cc. 207-08. 


471 


and along with it, Social Justice. This Plan spells out the minimum tasks which are expected 
of the nation, and which we can achieve if we have the will.to do so. I hope that the 
discussion here will generate and give the impression of our will and determination to fulfil 
the targets of the Plan and even, if we can, over-fulfil them | know, Sir, the hon. Members 


are greatly interested in this Plan and I also know that their suggestions and comments 
will be valuable. 


ae ae a ek अर 3 a भर 


Mr. Deputy Chairman,” the debate on planning is a truly national occasion, and I am 
glad that hon. Members have taken it seriously even though there has been much criticism. 
We have got used to such criticism. First it used to be on the very concept of planning. 
Fortunately that stage is over and we have come to a phase of development when all parties, 
I hope, approve of the idea of planning. Some have approved of some portions of the Plan 
but have reserved their criticism for the manner in which many programmes have been 
implemented. There are some who do not at all approve of the manner in which we plan. 
Now, obvisouly, each one of us, that is, not as individuals but as representatives of parties, 
stand for certain ideas and for certain methods of functioning. We have, after considerable 
thought and deliberation, decided on the sort of Planning Commission which we should 
have and manner on which it should function. The Planning Commission consists of 
independent, non-party, non-political experts but even they are not solely responsible for 
the Plan. The Plan is drawn up on the basis of numerous discussions with people at different 
levels, every single State and the Plan takes its final shape in the National Development 
Council in which all the Chief Ministers, and many of them belonging to different parties, 
sit together and express their views. It is true that at these meetings there is also 
disagreement, not normally on the method of planning but more about how much each 
State should get. We all know that none of our programmes is adequate for our population 
or for our needs. At all times there has to be balancing between available resources and 
what our people need, what we think should be done for them or even what should be 
done for one area or another. By and large, the Plan is a charter of progress for the next 
four years. We have some idea of how it has functioned already since it has been in 
existence for a year. Although this formal discussion on the final Plan is taking place now, 
we have had a very useful debate when the Plan was settled in its drafts stage. An hon. 
Member has said that there was no sense of urgency in the Plan. 1 think that this is the 
difference between the Draft Plan and the final document. 


We have tried to inject a sense of urgency in the final document, and the proof of it is 
that it has recognised the major problems of the day, whether it is unemployment or regional 
imbalances or other major problems. Yesterday or the day before yesterday, I mentioned 
the increased outlay both for the public sector and for the State Plans. We do realise, and I 
think the Plan realises, that the solution to some of these problems brooks no delay and 
they must be tackled with urgency and with determination. But there are certain conditions 
in which we mast work. The hon. Member, Shri Kaul, drew attention to this when he spoke 


* While replying to the debate on the Motion, R.S. Deb., 13 August, 1970, cc. 221-35. 


472 


ee 

232८5 :% 07० rents Phan ont 

220 70/27/7206 ः 
2900.2/12,40,०.०००.००००५००८ ०५०० ane 


Stetina 
NORA 


22022 
fe 
22 

eae a 

oe ‘= 


०००2::०, 
See eo 


just now. There are certain accepted parameters. One is the democratic process. Many 
people would like us to do many things, some of which, we also agree, are the right things 
to do. But we are committed to the democratic process..We are committed to securing the 
consent of the people. We are committed to trying to take along with us as many of the 
people and as many of the parties as possible. And sometimes this does slow the process, 
but I think that, even though it makes the process slower, it strengthens the process and it 
strengthens whatever work we take in hand. Now the second parameter, with which perhaps 
some people do not agree, but which is one which we have set for ourselves, is that of a 
mixed economy. A mixed economy may have many faults, but in the circumstances in the 
country, our Government, those who preceded me and those who are my colleagues today, 
feel that this is one of the conditions which we must set ourselves. I do not think that ‘a 
mixed economy’ means merely that some big families should be allowed to take advantage. 
Because many of the fields—whether it is agriculture, or small scale industry—are in the 
private sector, but for the benefit of the smaller man. This is our concept of a mixed 
economy, namely, that people should be able to take many programmes in hand and work 
for themselves. I know that some families, some groups, some business houses, have taken 
advantage of a particular situation as it arose immediately after independence. It is our 
endeavour now to see how we can curb this kind of monopolistic tendency. It is not possible 
suddenly, in the circumstances in which we are, to put a sudden brake. You cannot say 
that a particular situation should be changed overnight. It has to be done in a way which 
gives the least shock to the economy. But it must also be done in a way which lessens the 
delay. By lessening the shock, I do not mean that we go so slow that our programmes 
become ineffective, because that would be defeating the very purposes for which we are 
making new programmes. But it does mean that, along with the desire for social justice 
which is surely a genuine desire—the practical needs of the country today must be attended 
to, the needs of production and growth as well, so that they enable us to give greater social 
justice. There was another point made by hon. Shn Kaul, which was that with all these 
different types of criticism there was no clear alternative put forward by any hon. Member. 
There is a party which has put an alternative on previous occasion and I shall say something 
about it later on. 


fet मं 22k 2k मै मं मं 


Sometimes it is said here that the Plan is made by city-dwellers and therefore perhaps 
they have no idea of agricultural problems. We have in the Planning Commission 
agricultural experts, and in drawing up the Plan they are in touch with many more people 
all over the country who are actually working in the field or who are themselves concerned 
with the day to day problems of the rural areas. Although, I myself happen to be born not 
in a city but in a town, it is one of those hundreds of small towns in India which are very 
close to the rural areas and which are constantly in touch with the problems of the rural 
areas. My own earliest memories are not only of visits to villages but of thousands, if not 
lakhs, of peasants, with and without their families, coming to our house to discuss their 
problems and to put their difficulties in front of my father and the many other political 
leaders who were often in our house. Therefore this was my earliest memory of the political 
struggle in India and of the problems of the Indian peasant. So in a way, I have grown up 


with a very full and deep awareness of the problems of the kisan, of his hopes and his 
aspirations. Now, realise that the implementation of land reforms is inextricably linked 
with any question of social justice for the rural population. In these last twelve months we 
have tried to mount pressure from all sides so that we could go ahead with many of these 
programmes, some laws which have been passed but have not been implemented, others 
which have yet to take the form of enactments. I do not know whether there is time to go 
into details of these reforms, but I have spoken of them on other occasions. What I would 
like to say is that we do realise the importance of land reform and when we met the Chief 
Ministers or the Agricultural Ministers of the States we have given them a time-bound 
programme. So we are going ahead with this. In the State under President’s rule, we have 
tried to set an example by pushing ahead even faster. But we cannot slur over the legal, 
constitutional and sometimes political difficulties which State Governments, whether they 
are of the Congress or of the other parties, have faced when they have set about 
implementing land reforms, and it is these difficulties which have to some extent slowed 
down the pace of implementation. But my own assessment is that these difficulties are 
increasingly being got over and the State Governments are now displaying a greater sense 
of urgency and earnestness in enforcing land reforms. 


Now, some parties represented here have taken another method of enforcing land 
reforms. I must confess that this is not a nght method. It is not a mght method, because I 
do not think that it even gives justice in the long run. It is not a nght method, because it is 
based on feelings of hatred, of envy and even of the promotion of the acquisitive spirit. 


One hon. Member belonging to my own party, I believe, said one of these day that 
had I not been in office, perhaps I myself would have led the land grab movement. I must 
seriously repudiate this statement. I do not wish to associate myself with anything which 
will increase lawlessness and the tendency to grab things. In this connection, people brought 
in Gandhi’s name. They brought in the memory of the freedom struggle. But the conditions 
were entirely different. I had the privilege of being close to Gandhiji, and I know that he 
would not approve of any kind of movement like this or any kind of grabbing. We were 
then living under a system which did not permit any kind of change, as we were under the 
British regime. 


Often many things had to be done which perhaps one would not normally approve of, 
but today change is possible. People have shown that they do change. They have voted 
for other ideas. They have voted for other parties. They have brought governments of 
different hues and views into power. Therefore, all those who are committed to democratic 
methods should abide by these rules and processes of democracy. 


Of course, there were some suggestions made for the efficient implementation of land 
reforms which, in my view, are eminently reasonable. Some Members suggested that 
peoples representatives at the village level should be associated with the enforcement of 
land legislation. The central problem which faces our democracy today, and which was 
touched upon by many members who spoke, is the problem of how to have the people’s 
participation in the implementation of Plan and especially in some of these programmes 
which affect them very closely. No one can sit back and relax thinking that, having elected 


474 


the Government or having given the vote to the people, their participation in the processes 
of Government will be automatically ensured. We have to work actively for such 
participation and to build up public opinion. But there must be a common understanding 
between us all and acceptance of the fact that changes will be brought about through 
persuasion and peaceful means and that consensus will not be brought about by the welding 
of the big stick by any one. I do not approve of the grabbing, because I feel that it is not 
possible to promote understanding in these conditions. 


The other question, which has been agitating hon. Members for some time, is the 
Government’s Industrial Licensing Policy and the role of the large industrial houses. I have 
just touched upon this without mentioning the world licensing earlier on. We do stand 
committed to an equitable distribution of wealth and income, but equally we must have 
production and growth because without this we cannot make an impact on the great poverty 
in our country. The House should look at the Industrial Licensing Policy as a whole and 
its total impact on the economy. As hon. Members know, we have reserved a large field 
for small scale industry and a far larger field for small and medium entrepreneurs. It is 
only in respect of the core sector and heavy investment sector that large industrial houses 
have been allowed to come in. If the managerial, financial and technical resources of the 
public sector as they exist today were unlimited, then certainly we could have taken a 
decision here and now that this field should be completely reserved for the public sector 
and that no licences should be given to the large industria] houses. 


But we know that the situation is not such. The public sector has grown considerably 
and we want to build it up to a position of commanding influence in our economy. But in 
respect of projects in the core sector which the public sector is not in a position to take up 
because of want of financial or technical or other resources, the choice before us is either 
to import what we need or else to allow some of the these bigger industrial houses to come 
in and give the country the benefit of higher production and employment. No decision 
has been taken which is in conflict with the objectives of our licensing policy. Government 
has at its disposal adequate powers to regulate, to control and direct the large industrial 
houses and to ensure that they function in conformity with national interests. We are looking 
at this problem constantly, and where we have gone wrong is because the circumstances 
were such that some people were able to take advantage of the situation. We do keep a 
close look at this problem to see how it can be correted. It is our constant direction to all 
Ministries that these bigger houses must function in conformity with national interests. 


The other major question is that concerning the rise in prices. I do not think we have 
been complacent about the price situation, nor can we afford to be. I am fully conscious 
of the deep distress that the rise in prices causes to all people but more specially to 
vulnerable sections such as landless labourers, fixed income groups, and so on. But, let us 
not be swept off our feet by alarmists who interpret the rise 11 prices as a prelude to some 
kind of a galloping inflation. We should get the facts straight about how much rise there 
is and what items have contributed to this rise, I have the figures for two days, one, the 
week ending 18th July, 1970, and there the wholesale price index is higher by 3.5 per cent 
as compared to the price index of a year ago. The other is the wholesale index for the 
week ending July 25th, and that is higher by 3.3 per cent than its level a year ago for the 


el ee ae || 


same week. The index for foodgrains is lower by 1.5 per cent, and except for rice the prices 
mie ree foodgrains are running lower than last year’s level. Government’s objective is 
to hold the prices of four items of family consumption stable. 


ME i a ae मंद 2c मु मं के 


While rice prices have shown some increase, that is 1.7 per cent, the prices of wheat, 
Jowar and bajra are lower than they were on the same week a year ago. So the trend in 
prices has underlined the crucial importance of taking all steps to stimulate the production 
of commercial crops. I am glad that mention was made of the importance of cotton. Some 
of these items have been neglected in the past and we must make every effort to have 
research and other measures, which were taken with regard to wheat, extended to these 
other items. Growth with stability will be within our reach if we do not slacken, and if we 
maintain the rate of progress achieved in agricultural production. That is why we are also 
pressing ahead with the building up of buffer stocks of foodgrains. 


I think some Hon’ble Member rightly mentioned that to some extent in a developing 
economy prices must go up. He spoke just in tme. 


We find that the rise in prices is not a phenomenon unique to India but is found in 
most places in the world today. At the same time, we want to keep the prices down for the 
consumer. But simultaneously, we have to assure remunerative prices to agricultural 
producers, that is, maintaining incentive for increased production. In fact, when a statement 
was made by my colleague, the Finance Minister, the other day in Parliament about the 
rise in prices and the steps taken to arrange for imports of edible oils, etc., one of the Chief 
Ministers, not belonging to my party, wrote immediately stressing the need that we should 
not, in the process, overlook the need to assure remunerative prices to producers. Therefore, 
at all times you have to try and maintain a balance between the different points of view. 


The other major problem is that of unemployment. We have had some little discussion 
on it this morning and hon. Members were understandably exercised— since they do not 
like the word ‘excited’—that some figures were not given. As I explained then, up to now, 
the Plans and the National Sample Surveys and other studies have all been giving figures. 
When I said that they were not correct, I was not expressing my personal view or the view 
of a particular Ministry or department. The House knows that an Expert Committee was 
set up to look into this matter. It has come up with the view that they do not think the 
methods for collecting these figures were right and therefore, they do not think that the 
figures themselves are correct. And as we know, these various figures given by different 
bodies are conflicting..... (Interruptions). They may be higher or lower. That is not the 
point. The point is, when we know that the figures are not correct there 1s not much sense 
in placing those figures before the House. But this Committee has also set out—it has not 
also taken a negative attitude—the various steps to be taken immediately whereby we can 
get more correct figures ....... 


mK He मंद मर मंद मर me भर मर 


476 . 


bs 
रा 22: 
रे See 
228: 
i, ‘« 
ty 3 
oss 
८755: 


rv 
; 


व 
०१ 
betes 


LEARN 


2: Bes 
है 22 3 
१20: 
टू 1 


a 
. 
Se 1722 
(१ os 
pars 9 
रा 


ARI 


nan ne ey np ee sen 
(02% 20002: 
ET 


Sakehees 


We are trying to expedite the work*. We have immediately informed the State 
Governments and 1 hope that we will get the figures, even if not of the entire country, at 
least, in the interim, of the special districts which have been selected for special 
programmes. At least those figures we should get very soon. Some programmes have been 
outlined in the Plan for dealing with this problem. 


As I said earlier, nobody will claim—and neither does the Plan claim—that it can 
provide an adequate solution to this problem or that the question of unemployment can be 
dealt with in this Plan or another, in one stroke. But we have made a beginning by opening 
out many avenues, schemes for rural employment, and some schemes for urban 
employment. And we certainly think that these will make some dent in these figures of 
the unemployed. 


I enurrely agree with the hon. Members**, who spoke before me, who said that the 
system of education also needs to be geared up so that the young people who get their 
degrees can immediately fit into some jobs. But this is such a big problem—the question 
of changing the educational system. It can only be dealt with on a national scale and with 
the cooperation of all political parties. 


I do not know whether the hon’ ble Members would like me to go into these employment 
schemes. I think, they have been placed before the House. Some of them are Small Farmers’ 
Scheme, Marginal Farmers’ Scheme, Agro-Service Centres, Scheme of Rural Works in 
drought-affected areas, institutional finances through banks, and also something that was 
in answer to a question which had been put with regard to employment of engineers and 
so on. As J said, all these schemes are there. But they are far from adequate. They mark a 
beginning. Apart from giving employment to a certain number, what is more important is 
that it will give an opening for young people to use initiative in creating jobs for themselves. 
This must be so in any developing nation to enable it to grow, and to advance. Young 
people must learn how to make the best use of any adversity. It was out of the drought 
situation, that much of our agricultural strategy developed to enable our farmers to go ahead 
much faster. The strategy was accepted by farmers because they found themselves in a 
difficult situation where only a change in methods could help them out. So they immediately 
adopted this change in methods. Therefore, a difficult problem can help to reorient our 
thinking and the thinking of our young people so that they get more resourceful and use 
their initiative. There are many opportunities for self-employment in our country. There 
are many villages which need services. They are willing to pay for the services and these 
services could be provided by the unemployed. But today there 1s a feeling of insecurity 
in taking up such jobs. The banks are helping young people. Even so, there is some 
hesitation. I hope this state of affairs will soon change as indeed it 1s already changing. 


Now, I said earlier that nobody had given an alternative Plan. And some friends opposite 
there called out that they had got what they call a Swadeshi Plan. Of course, the word 
“Swadeshi” like all words is sometimes stretched to have all kinds of meaning. The present 


* Replying to Shri Shyamnandan Mishra’s question, “By what time would you get?” 
** Shri Bipinpal Das. 


~ 


(१ 7 ye ॥ ae ३९“ 222: im oe 4 he ‘a ०४४६: FRONTS, 4222 3 ५८४४४ 2 टी 
ake Eee noe ee 22200 Ree Boy ORG, x 52522 2522 
Pan) it ८7% at en se ५ 


४-४2 MRK 


477 


Plan, as it is today, requires a 28 per cent, increase in income to be ploughed back for 
investment. It calls for mobilisation of resources of Rs. 3,200 crores and most of us here 
feel that it is a very difficult task. This so-called Swadeshi Plan calls for a marginal saving 
rate of 40 to 50 per cent and involves a mobilisation of additional resources to the tune of 
Rs. 9,600 crores over the five-year period, that is, an additional taxation of Rs. 1,600 crores 
in a single year. 


In a children’s classic there is mention of a “Never, Never Land”. It seems to me that 
some people live in the ‘“‘Never, Never Land”. For them the solution of all problems seems 
to be easy. They say, “Cut out foreign aid, have levies on imports, have a pie in the sky 
and a bomb in the pocket and you will solve the problems of economic growth, 
employment, self-reliance and security all in one stroke.” Exponents of this philosophy 
are welcome to practise it if ever they have the opportunity of doing so. I personally feel 
that they will soon discover that they have been deluding themselves, if not others. 


A question which I have not so far mentioned is the question of the importance given 
to agriculture. The Government 18 fully aware of the importance of agriculture. Agriculture, 
as we all know, and as hon’ ble Members have said, contributes 50 per cent. of the national 
income and provides livelihood for about 70 per cent. of our people. Apart from the outlay 
shown under the heading ‘Agricultural Production”, funds are being provided on a large 
scale through various co-operatives, banks and so on. And also much of what is put under 
programmes such as production of fertilisers, rural electrification, etc. are intended to build 
up our agriculture. More pump sets were energised during the three years of the Annual 
Plan than were 1n position in 1966. In the Fourth Plan 1.25 million pump sets are proposed 
to be energised. The number of pump sets energised will thus be doubled in the five-year 
period. 


My good friend, sitting opposite me, here said ‘that the Plan was out of date. Perhaps 
it is his information which is out of date. So far as we know, in the first year of the Plan 
the projected rate of growth, i.e. 5.5 per cent, has been achieved. The food production has 
been 100 million tonnes and industrial production increased by 7 per cent. Therefore, the 
economy should grow at the rate of 5.5 per cent as estimated in the Plan. While reference 
was made to the downward revision of some targets, for instance fertilizers and petroleum 
crude, other items where the targets have been raised, were conveniently ignored. 


aK मंद और aK HK अं MK मर 


Shrimati Punshpaben made some very useful points about animal husbandry, especially 
about the difficulties of the nomadic tribes, and grasslands, and also about cutting down 
of forests or jungles. These are very real problems, especially that of forests, because in 
our desire and in our earnestness to help our landless, we should not make the great mistake 
of cutting down more forests. As it is, we have cut down far more forest land than we 
should have done and this has adversely affected the areas round about. It has affected 
rainfall and created many new problems. So each problem has to be seen alongside with 
many others. If we just try to solve one problem by itself, quite often new problems are 
created, which create difficulties even for the original problem. Shrimati Pushpaben was 


eee 


478 : 


: 


perhaps understandably emotional about the adoption of some of our children by foreigners. 
Now, I myself am not in favour of our children being adopted by foreigners. But the number 
of such children is exceedingly small. I can assure her that those few who have been adopted 
abroad, that I know of, are living in good conditions, and that reports are got by the agencies 
through whom the adoption takes place about the condition of health and how the child is 
growing up. We are in a position to know that the child is not being ill-treated. The answer 
is not to stop these few adoptions, but to try and persuade our own people to adopt such 
children. It is no life for these children to live in some of these orphanages. I can say from 
personal experience that many children in similar conditions just because in some of these 
orphanages here they do not have love and affection which are as necessary for the growth 
of a child as are adequate nourishment and shelter. We have a huge task before us to look 
after these children not through institutions but through love which only a family can give 
them. In India most adoptions have taken place only because somebody did not have an 
heir for property or something like that. But these adoptions which are taking place now 
are because somebody wants to give love and affection to a child. People have gone out 
of their way to adopt a child that is very ill and often enough the child could not get the 
necessary treatment there even 1f we had the money and other equipment. So we must try 
and change the attitude of our people. 


The problem of refugees in West Bengal had been dealt with on previous occasions. I 
will only say that it is a very real problem and it is indeed a national problem. We do not 
regard it as a problem merely of West Bengal. 


Some honourable Members spoke of disorder. What is happening ॥ the country today 
might perhaps be called disorder; some of it is disorder. But much of the unrest is a kind 
of ferment and it is a ferment which is not confined to our country. It is visible in countries 
where there is no unemployment, where there are no economic difficulties such as our 
people face. Therefore, it is part of a crisis which 1s very much deeper. It 18 a crisis of 
humanity, a crisis where people are trying to 100९ for something which they have missed. 
The younger people discard the older values either because they do not approve of them 
or because they think the older generation has not lived up to their values. It is one or the 
other. But it is certainly much deeper than merely a quest for jobs, security or any such 
thing. These do form part of the crisis in India but there is something beyond that. 


ai और भर मं मु: > a मंद a 


I think the people of Bengal want the CRP there so that the outward disorder, which is 
not connected with this kind of mental ferment, can be put down and the situation made 
peaceful.* Then we can all sit together to find a way of release or some fulfilment for the 


younger people. 
Some hon. Members have also spoken of uncertainty. I do not know : perhaps they 


themselves feel uncertain or their parties feel uncertain. I can assure them that so far as 
we are concerned, we do not think there is any uncertainty either amongst us or amongst 


* Replying to Shri A.P. Chatterjee’s question : “Will you remove the CRP from West Bengal?” 


479 


the people of India. I have been travelling a great deal and wherever I go, I find the people 
are gertain of what they want. To be restless is something different. The people are certain 
of what they want. They are certain alsn of the changes they desire. And it is up to us to 
try and bring about those changes as quickly as possible through democratic and 
constitutional means. Had it been humanly possible to have an ideal plan here or anywhere 
in the world. I am sure, somebody would have produced it. But it has not been produced 
either in India or in any other country. An ideal is something towards which one works. It 
is not something that you can immediately grasp. The ideal itself can be a moving thing, 
in the sense that the needs of our people are not stagnant. As they obtain something, they 
will want and rightly want, other things, and we are trying towards them... 


ak ak ek ak a a ok 


We want both*. You may want only one. But we think that the mere fulfilment of the 
material needs of the people is not enough for any nation. Many nations today which are 
affluent, have discovered this truth for themselves. So we think that while it is important 
to give the people their basic needs, which is the most important thing and which is a 
short-term measure, we have to look beyond that as well. 


One other hon.’ Member, I believe the Member who spoke last, spoke of the great 
adventure of planning, the great adventure of building up this country. Another honourable 
Member said that we have rather grandiose schemes. I do not think that anyone looking at 
this plan or at the schemes we have formulated will call it a grandiose Plan. It is on the 
whole a small Plan compared with the needs of the Indian people. I want to say— I do 
not know how many members will agree with me—that I do have grand dreams for this 
country and I think all! the people of India, especially the young people of India, do have 
grand dreams. No people can survive or grow unless they have such grand dreams and 
unless they aim higher than they can grasp or reach. 


All of us have before us a vision of India, an India which is strong and prosperous, a 
country which will produce some day 100 million tonnes of steel per year and one billion 
kilowatts of power when no family will know the pangs of hunger. But this vision has to 
be translated into reality through hard work and dedication and sacrifice. While drawing 
up the Plan, we have to combine our idealism with a realistic appraisal of our resources 
and our capabilities in this short time. 


I am sure that hon. Members know that this Plan is already in the process of 
implementation in every State regardless of whether they have a coalition Government or 
Congress Government or non-Congress Government. Also while it is being implemented, 
we are constantly in touch with the planning Commission, and the administration along 
with all these bodies at the State level. We should pledge our support to the Plan so that if 
it is not adequate, we can see how by implementng it and fulfilling the targets sooner we 
can raise still more resources to do the many things which we have not been able to indicate 
in the Plan. I am sure that this is possible. Some hon. Members have spoken with depression 


* Responding to a Member’s remark, “Materiel needs”. 


१२) 
ee 
ene 


‘ 
(७ शरद 
4 2४ 
० 

cet 
me 
2 
०३०३ 


sae 


(० घ im 
SRS 
12208 


oon 


ey oy एप NS 
ENS 


Races 


ER 
., 


and pessimism. I do not share their attitude. I am optimistic and I know that the people of 
India, with all their difficulties are also optimistic about their future and the Plan forms 
part of their future. 


So, I should like to request the hon. Members who have moved amendment to the main 
motion, not to press them but if they do press, I request the House to reject the amendments. 
Of course, there are one or two points in the amendments which we ourselves would like 
to do for instance, to make certain structural changes which are necessary. We have to 
find the means by which to bring them about with the consent of the people and through 
democratic means. 


481 


Resources for the Defence Sector* 


Mr. Deputy-Speaker, Sir, Parliament is the country’s watchdog and this debate on 
Defence Demands provides hon. Members with an opportunity to fulfil this function in a 
very crucial sector of our lives. All sections of the House are united in their concern for 
the safety and integrity of our country. Many important and useful points have been made 
in the course of the debate as well as in the earlier debate on External Affairs, for Defence 
and Foreign Affairs are closely inter-related as many hon. Members have mentioned. In 
fact, they are over-lapping. 


_A special feature of our Defence forces is their closeness to our social milieu. They 
form an integrated part of our community. We are a nation of agriculturists. It is the farmer’s 
son, who tills the land, who seeks employment in our factories and who joins the defence 
forces. So, the Jawan is very much in touch with the problems of our people. Secondly, 
whenever the Armed Forces have been called upon to aid civil authorities, whether during 
natural calamities such as floods or drought; or in restoring supplies and services essential 
to the community, they have acquitted themselves with great credit. In remote and border 
areas, and even in places which have come under our control during war and later returned, 
we have found medical, health or other essential services sadly lacking, and our Jawans 
have not hesitated, in spite of their other work and duties, to come to the relief of the local 
community. 


Since the last but one speaker was boasting cf his close contacts with the Army, I might 
also say that I have visited all our border areas and was even able to go to some of the 
Pakistan areas we had captured. There I was approached by the local population asking 
me: “Why can’t these people remain to look after us?” 


ae He a Me He ok a 2 मर 


I should like to congratulate our Jawans and Officers on their commendable spirit of 
Service. 


Within the constraints of resources, my Government has attempted to provide as much 
as possible for the Armed Forces, be it for essential modernization, or for their overall 
well-being and rehabilitation. 


* Replying to the debate on the Demands for Grants, Ministry of Defence, 1981-82, LS. Deb., 9 April, 1981, 
cc. 361-72. 


Seka 02% eee 


482 ‘ 


nee 
1०००८ RE 
pitas Soe 
455 
गटर पाए 
Re Ro Prep aes 


Seah 
0322272:4 


(१४4६ 
oe os 
nS, 

Be, 

ea 4 


ea 6 
pg ee a a 


Another point which I should like to clarify—is that the Committee on Defence Planning 
is not a part of the Defence Ministry. It is an inter-Ministerial organization with 
representatives from Finance, Planning and External Affairs. The Cabinet Secretary is the 
chairman. 


I take this opportunity of reiterating the commitment of Government to maintain the 
Armed Forces in a state of total preparedness which must naturally take into account not 
only equipment, but that everything possible is done to keep at the highest level the morale 
of the Defence personnel. Normally when we make plans for modernisation we have to 
keep all developments in mind, because there is no point in making a plan which ignores 
the various events around us. 


The discipline and the courage of our officers and Jawans are well recognized. In peace 
time, when the nation’s attention may not be focussed on them, they continue to guard 
our frontiers, some of them in the most trying of circumstances, inclement climate and far 
removed from their families or any type of social life or amenity. They bring dedication 
to their duties. I should like to convey to them, on behalf of the Government and on my 
own behalf, and I am sure the House will join me in this, our appreciation and greetings. 


Of course there are problems. The forces have to be kept always fit and fighting 
condition. A youthful profile has, therefore, to be maintained and because of this, as many 
as 70,000 personnel are retired annually at a comparatively young age. Finding alternative 
occupations for them is a national responsibility. We do treat this question with a sense of 
urgency. A series of measures have been taken for the welfare and rehabilitation of ex- 
servicemen. The State Governments and the private sector industries have been urged to 
keep this constantly in mind. Our ex-servicemen are disciplined and trained, and there is 
no reason why many of them cannot be gainfully employed in various developmental 
activities. 


Sir, I was astounded to see that one of the cut motions implies a lack of feeling of 
national integration amongst our Defence forces. I am sure the rest of the House will agree 
that, on the contrary, it is they who set a good example to us in this matter. Some cut 
motions asked for a substantial increase in the Defence Budget. While I share the concern 
of hon. Members, I must remind them that it is not our intention to build a war machine 
or to compete in the arms race. Our aim is primarily to prevent others from disturbing our 
peace and our development. Our resources are limited. Defence is an integral and important 
part, and yet only one part of our national endeavour. It cannot be built at the cost of socio— 
economic development not would it be effective without a strong economic base or a united 
disciplined and contented people. In these circumstances we have made the most judicious 
allocation of resources for the defence sector. For the year 1980-81, we have provided an 
increase of Rs. 200 crores over the sanction in the Budget Estimates and for the year 
1981-82, we have proposed a marginal increase, raising the total Defence Budget to Rs. 
4200 crores. This increase takes into account the rise in the cost of equipment and ॥ the 
provisions for pay, for allowances and pensionary benefits. While some members want us 
to cut down our defence expenditure others feel that we are spending too much 


As a percentage of gross national product, our expenditure on Defence is one of the 
lowest in the world. In 1979, it was : India 3.9; USA 5.2; USSR 11.13; and UK 4.9. For 
Pakistan it was 5.7 in 1978; we do not have latest figures for Pakistan and they are not 
available. Similarly, our Defence expenditure as a percentage of Central Government 
expenditure is also low compared to that of most countries. But we do our best that the 
needs of the Defence Services should be fully met and not suffer for shortage of funds. 


Our programmes to modernise all wings of the Armed Forces are continuing in the 
perspective of the security environment of the foreseeable future. Schemes have been 
sanctioned to increase the fire power, the mobility and the means of communication of 
our army. While our efforts for indigenously developing our main battle tank are continuing, 
we have, for the intervening period, procured a newer generation of battle tank. The Air 
Force has acquired greater punch with the introduction of MIG-23 aircraft and the Jaguar. 
For the Navy, we have embarked upon a programme of refitting older ships and obtaining 
general purpose frigates and mine— sweepers. Negotiations to procure SSK submarines 
have reached an advanced stage. 


Self-reliance remains our guiding principle in this as in other spheres of activities. The 
new Defence Research and Development Department in engaged in designing and 
developing sophisticated equipment. We are encouraging the growth of ancillary industries 
around Defence production establishments. Our ordnance factories are producing a wide 
variety of stores ranging from machine-guns to bombs and anti-submarine projectiles, for 
the three services. Some notable achievements in the production field have been the 
manufacture of medium machine-guns, fitted largely with indigenously produced 
components, the development of the 9 mm auto-pistol, air field lighting equipment, etc. 


The best defence is the prevention of war and that is what India has been involved in 
during all these years and that is the major preoccupation of our foreign policy. Since our 
Foreign Minister has dealt very lucidly and comprehensively with our thinking on these 
matters, with our relations with other countnies, and especially with our neighbours as well 
as with recent developments in the non—alignment movement and other relevant questions 
such as the North-South problems, I do not need to go into these again. 


There is near if not total unanimity in the world on one point. Never in the last two 
decades has the international outlook been as grim as it 15 today. This is not merely my 
own assessment but that of the scores of world leaders from five continents whom I have 
met in this past year. I am not given to alarm or exaggeration. Yet I must warn that at this 
time we simply cannot afford to be complacent or to sit back hoping that matters will 
somehow be sorted out. It will take the most earnest exertion of all countries, to somehow 
hang on to peace and to prevent the situation from exploding, or dnfting towards disaster. 
The basic responsibility for peace lies with the big powers. Their attitudes of confrontation 
will engulf all others. Much that happens in smaller countnes is often the result of such 
outside manoeuvres and manipulations. Yet countries like ours, which are not big powers 
in the military or any other sense, can and must pull their weight individually and 
collectively. Peace to us is vital for the consolidation of our independence, for the building 
of our economy and indeed for our very survival as nations. 


There is actual fighting in more than one part of the world. Many other areas are like 
powder kegs ready to blow up at any inadvertent striking of a match. The focus of the 
cold war has shifted from Europe to the Indian Ocean littoral. As has been said our South- 
West and South-East Asia flanks are flash points. New armaments are being piled up in 
our region, not only around the Indian Ocean but in a number of inland countries. 


We are told that the purpose of the militarisation of our area is the containment of the 
expansionism of one big power by the other, and of ensuring the stability of the Gulf region. 
In our view this policy is counter—productive. It will virtually prevent a politically negotiated 
settlement in Afghanistan nor will it bring peace to the Gulf and South-West Asian region. 
The security of the Gulf should primarily be the responsibility of the Gulf countries 
themselves who should not allow external interference or pressures in the shaping of their 
future. 


The unresolved crisis in Afghanistan and the continuing conflict in Irag-Iran have given 
encouragement to the hawks of many countries. We continue to be deeply concerned that 
there are as yet no signs of improvement in Afghanistan. We stand firmly for the ending 
of all outside presences in that country, as well as elsewhere, but it would be wrong to 
think that there is only one foreign intervention. Our advocacy of a political solution to 
this problem has assumed even greater relevance than when the trouble began, because of 
the increasing entanglement of the big powers in this entire region. Any solution must 
obviously balance the views of all concerned parties. 


Developments in Afghanistan have given Pakistan an excuse to demand more arms 
and to other countries to supply them. We are also disturbed that a mischievous campaign 
has been started in some quarters to suggest that Pakistan needs to be strengthened because 
of India’s designs. This point is patently ridiculous and untrue. 


Every country has a duty to look after its defence. But let us remember that in the last 
ten years, Pakistan has doubled its defence strength. Yet me did not protest then. But the 
present moves introduce a qualitative difference. Now, Pakistan’s defence seems once again 
to be becoming part of a larger strategic alignment stretching from the Atlantic Ocean to 
the Pacific Ocean, to say nothing of the Indian Ocean in between. This 1s what worries us. 


We welcomed Pakistan’s entry into the non-aligned movement. But do their new 
intentions fit in with non-alignment or are they going back to their old policies ? 


Officially, Pakistan has denied that it is planning to produce nuclear weapons. But these 
denials have not allayed the fears and suspicions anywhere in the world. In fact, it 1s in 
the countries of the West that detailed accounts have been appearing about Pakistan’s 
nuclear preparations. It should be clearly understood that Pakistan’s development of nuclear 
bombs will have grave and irreversible consequences on our subcontinent. We have kept 
our eyes and ears open. We are fully aware of our responsibilities and the House can be 
confident that we shall respond in an appropriate way to any development. Our own policy 
has been to use nuclear energy only for peaceful purposes and we crusade for the total 


banning of all nuclear weapons. 


485 


न न । 


viene a ae 


The Pakistan Foreign Minister, Mr. Aga Shahi has been here twice. In response to his 
inVitation and in pursuance of the Simla Agreement, our Foreign Minister will, I hope soon 
go to Islamabad. This visit will be in continuation of our patient approach in dealing with 
Pakistan since the Simla Conference. Some leaders of the opposition parties have been 
pleased to say outside the House that India with its size need not be afraid of Pakistan. 
We are not afraid of Pakistan or of anyone else. Size itself is not strength. In fact, without 
unity and discipline, it can be a liability. But we do care very much for the tranquinty of 
our region and the stability of our neighbourhood. I had expected greater farsightedness 
from such experienced leaders. 


We have expressed our serious misgivings directly to the United States Government 
through our Ambassador and through Shri G. Parthasarathi who had gone to the United 
States on some other work. The response of the United States will be known by its actions. 
Our efforts at friendship and co-operation continue and will continue. But at the same time, 
we must not ignore the realities or dangers of the unfolding situation. India has never 
resorted to any step which might be taken as a threat to our neighbouring countries. Indeed 
we have repeatedly assured them of our policy of respect for their sovereignty and integrity. 
We want them to live in peace and stability. In fact, the pace of socio-economic development 
in our own country is linked with events in our neighbourhood. Jawaharlal Nehru’s words 
uttered 25 years ago that “the cold war has come to our door-step’ is true once again. The 
gains made through patient international diplomacy over the last 30 years have been swept 
away by the hot winds of belligerency. The situations in Afghanistan and the Gulf, serious 
as they are, are not half as menacing as the resumption of the cold war. The powerful nations 
of Europe and America seem to have a special flair for fighting their wars on the soils of 
the under-developed and developing countries of Asia and Africa. Added to this are the 
ocean waters of our region. 


We are alarmed at the pronouncements of some major spokesmen of the US 
Administration which have created disquiet even amongst some of their close allies. We 
hope that as that Government studies the complex international situation in greater depth 
and with greater understanding, it will appreciate the need to de—escalate tensions. 
Experience has shown that military solutions are short-lived and give rise to new problems. 
Hence no opportunity for a dialogue should be missed. Proposals like those of President 
Brezhnev should be looked at in this context. The big powers have the primary 
responsibility for the maintenance of peace. But recent history has shown that the big 
powers do not always get their own way. Other countries can do a great deal to generate 
the right atmosphere and to mobilise the voices for peace. 


Some have alleged our dependence on a particular country. This allegation is quite 
baseless. It shows how people, and even hon. Members of Parliament, are influenced by 
the propaganda of vested interests. This is even anti—national as it reflects on the morale 
of our forces and our people. We have built a strong techno—economic base. And, whenever 
we have had to buy equipment from abroad to keep abreast of the latest technological 
developments, we have carefully compared the pros and cons of various offers and have 
decided the source of procurement only in the best interests of our country and after 


ascertaining the equipment most suited to our needs. Keeping in view cost effectiveness, 
we have in our inventory, equipment and materials not from one country alone but from 
diverse sources which include France, Germany, Italy, Sweden, UK as well as the USA 
and the USSR and also from some other countries. In the matter of supplies of spares, no 
country can blackmail us in times of need. 


India is not only a large land mass but comprises also a large number of islands which 
are strategically situated and vulnerable to external threats. Their defence is a matter of 
direct national concern. Foreign vessels are showing undue interest in these outlaying 
islands and in our seas. We are taking steps to strengthen the security of those islands. 


A point which was mentioned when I visited our islands on both sides—Lakshadweep 
as well as the Andaman-is that normally when we speak of the length of India we say 
Kashmir to Kanyakumari. And it was very forcibly brought out that both Minicoy and 
Pygmalion Point are much more to the South. I request hon. Members that when they refer 
to the size of India in future, to keep this in mind. 


ek ak ak ak मं akc ah ah 


This brings me on to the larger issue of the oceans around as. Our seas are vital from 
the point of view of security, from the point of view of natural resources and communication 
and of our environment. All these years a few big powers considered the Oceans as their 
preserve. Global attempts have been made in recent years to bring about an acceptable 
international regime of ocean management. But even these have met with opposition and 
have recently received a set back. In the meantime we must be vigilant to safeguard our 
legitimate rights. We have been and are strengthening our Coast Guard Organisation, and 
new legislation is being proposed to deter poaching .n our waters. A new Department of 
Ocean Development is being set up and this will be followed by the establishment of an 
Ocean Commission. 


Extemal threat need not always take the form of a military invasion or an attack from 
outside. Other subtle moves destabilise countries and damage their national fabrics. Outside 
elements seem to be showing a great deal of interest in fomenting fissiparous movements 
within our country and encouraging those who indulge in violence. Some time ago, I had 
drawn attention to elements in the North East which advocated secessionist tendencies. 
Today similar irresponsible and even more sinister claims of separate nationhood are being 
heard from other parts of our country—astonishingly even those parts whose sons and 
daughters have contributed such hard work to the development of our Nation and sacrificed 


so much to the defence of our borders. 


I want to deal with another question to which an hon. Member referred. He concluded 
on what I had said about civilisation. Civilisation is not synonymous with industrial 


development or affluence by itself. And when I referred to civilised people, I mean those 
.who are civilised in mind...(/nmterruptions) I think it is an American* who wrote if I 
remember the words aright : 


“Tll fares the land to hastening a prey. 


Where wealth accumulates and men decay.” 


mak के see a ae a ah 


So our endeavour is to build that kind of man. It is a very long-term goal. But we 
hope that step by step we shall get nearer to it. 


By the way, hon. Member Shni Indrajit Gupta, said something about our Service Chiefs 
meeting Senator Price. I am told that they did not meet Senator Price either jointly or singly. 


As hon. Members are aware, defence 1s strongly influenced by and dependent on many 
other factors. This is one of the reasons why I have kept Defence with me, to forge closer 
co-ordination and to introduce more effective institutional arrangements. Modern security 
implies defence plus foreign policy plus self-reliant technology. It rests on the soundness 
of the economy, on political cohesion and social harmony. But in the ultimate analysis it 
is the people who count their morale, their commitment and patriotic determination. As 
one hon. Member pointed out, the Vietnamese had neither money, industrial capacity nor 
military equipment worth the name. The people were poor and short of almost all their 
needs. Yet, the manner in which they rallied and united, matched their strength against the 
mightiest and prevailed is the saga of our time. Our own freedom struggle is a shining 
example of the power of will, endurance and perseverance. The Indian people have this 
quality in abundant measure. Let us, the political parties and all others, not fail them or 
our defence forces, by diverting attention or dissipating energies on non-issues. 


I urge on the hon. Members to withdraw their cut motions and to adopt the Demands 
unanimously. 


* Oliver Goldsmith. 


Loan from IMF* 


Sir, [am not making speech, but I feel that I should emphasize one point. My colleague, 
the Finance Minister** has already dealt with most of the points which are being raised. I 
have heard some of the speeches from my room. What he has not dealt with, he will no 
doubt do so, at the end of the debate. 


I want to emphasize just this, that this loan or the agreement for the loan, is a line of 
credit. It does not force us to borrow, not shall we borrow unless it is in the national interest. 
There 15 absolutely no question of our accepting any programme which is incompatible 
with our policy, declared and accepted by Parliament. It is inconceivable that anybody 
should think that we would accept assistance from any external agency which dictates terms 
which are not in consonance with such policies. 


I thought I would make that very clear. 


मंः ae और मंध्अंध् मर aK ae मर 


Sir,*** ] have not come here to discuss the economics of the loan, which my colleague, 
the Finance Minister, has explained previously, and will, no doubt, do so most ably at the 
end of the debate. But some questions have arisen on the political aspect. I intervened for 
about a minute in the other House, and I thought I would enlarge upon my remarks if I 
may, in this House, and I take a couple of minutes. 


What has been alleged or insinuated is that by taking this loan we have deviated or 
are intending to deviate from our declared policy. That is why I have come here to strongly 
refute this allegation. In the other House, I said and I should like to repeat, that it is 
inconceivable that we would accept assistance from any external agency on terms which 
are not in conformity with our declared national policy. 


Just a glance at our policies : Basically we aim at self-reliance, and I think that wherever 
I have been recently-I have travelled a great deal-this was acknowledged by economists 
as well as others that we had made a tremendous effort and gained, not complete success, 
but certainly partial success in this direction. 


* While participating in the debate on a Motion regarding India’s Extended Arrangement with the International 
Monetary Fund, L.S. Deb., 2 December, 1981, cc. 434-35. 


** Shri. R Venkataraman. 
*** While speaking in Rajya Sabha on arrangement with the International Monetary Fund, R.S. Deb., 3 December, 


1981, cc. 306-08. 


We stand for self-reliance. We are committed to the uplift of the weaker sections, and 
we have, as the hon. Members know, a mixed economy, in which the public sector will 
hold the commanding heights, but the private sector also has a legitimate and active role. 
This policy was decided upon right at the beginning by our leaders, not as a whim, but 
after deep thought given to the special conditions existing in India and also the vast size 
of our problem. 


Also, as we in our independent struggle, had, mobilised all sections of the people, the 
rich, the middle class and the poor, the highly sophisticated, the partly educated and the 
illiterate, so, in the developinent effort also no section must be left out. We must mobilise 
this entire force in one direction, to make this country strong and self-reliant. 


We are also committed to build up indigenous capacity in production and to progress 
towards self-reliance. We are doing everything possible to build up our own strength. But 
we found that we needed to import in order to increase efficiency in production, to achieve 
more rapid growth in investment and to provide essential commodities which were not 
available at all. This is the import policy which we are maintaining at this moment. We 
have liberalised procedure because they were cumbersome and they added to our problems, 
not just problems of those who wanted to sell to us or to invest here, but even our own. 
But I should like to assure the House that there is not going to be no reversal of our policy 
of using this to develop our indigenous capacity and our self-reliance. 


We have provided and we shall continue to provide, special assistance to the poorer 
sections, particularly of the backward regions, economically backward regions and classes 
whether they live in rural or in urban areas. We shall continue to support programmes to 
meet their essential needs and for their economic development and advancement. 


Since ours is a mixed economy, we shall also continue to encourage the private sector; 
it should impinge on any of the areas reserved for the State sector, but worse in those areas 
which are kept aside for the private sector. In that area, it should grow and play a much 
fuller part than it is doing today in the development of the country’s economy. The public 
sector will maintain the commanding heights of our economy, and I am sure that it will 
continue to expand. We should redouble our efforts, to make it more efficient, to produce 
higher returns and to serve our social purpose. These in a nut-shell are the basic elements 
of our economic policy and we are not going to compromise of them. There is no question 
of our being dictated to from any quarter. Anybody who has been abroad or who has been 
with me when I have talked with leaders there or exchanged correspondence with them 
will see that we have been very firm on all those points. This is all I wanted to say. 


4 


SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY 


installation of High-Powered Transmitter* 


With your permission, Sir, I would like to read out a statement. 
In October, 1964, it was decided that— 


(i) the earlier proposals of having six 100 KW short-wave and one 1000 KW medium- 
wave transmitters, and five 100 KW short-wave transmitters as provided for in the Third 
Five Year Plan may be given up; and 


(1) the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting may be authorised to enter into 
commitments for the purchase of two 250 KW short-wave and one 100 KW short-wave 
transmitters for installation at Delhi within the Third Five Year Plan. 


However in view of the feeling of urgency expressed in Parliament and outside 
regarding the need for a Super High Power Medium Wave transmitter for broadcasting to 
countries to the north and south-east of India, the whole matter was recently reconsidered 
at a meeting to which technical experts were invited. At this meeting, 1t was unanimously 
agreed that— 


(i) Medium-wave transmission within its comparatively limited range was much more 
effective than short-wave transmission; 


(ii) It has the advantage of being received by even cheap, single-band receivers as well 
as, of course, all-band sets; 


(iii) For the limited purpose of efficient broadcasts to countries like Tibet, Sikkim and 
Bhutan, in the north and Burma, Thailand, Malaysia and part of Indo-China in the south- 
east, a powerful medium-wave transmitter would be preferable to a short-wave transmitter; 


(iv) The medium-wave transmitter would be effective only for a limited period—four 
hours in the evening—and, if both the North as well as the South-Eastern Group were to 
be served, the time would have to be divided between the two and arrangements for reversal 
of the beam would be necessary, 


(v) If a similar service was needed for broadcasts to the West, another transmitter to 
be sited either in Bombay or Bhuj would be necessary and this would cover Pakistan, 
Afghanistan, Saudi Arabia and the North-Eastern portions of Africa; 


* Replying (as the Minister of Information and Broadcasting) to the Half-an-Hour-Discussion regarding High-Powered 
Transmitter, L.S. Deb., 14 December, 1964, cc. 4875-80. 


493 


era Sr] 


Se een 
Bee tee 


Ce ae) 


(vi) With suitable aerials, the two 250 KW short-wave transmitters proposed to be 
_Stationed in Delhi, would serve all the areas mentioned above and also countries beyond, 
such as China towards the East, the Soviet Union and the African countries to the West; 


(vii) The short-wave transmission would provide day-and-night service, but reception 
though very much wider in range, would not be so effective in the countries within the 
shorter range as Medium Wave transmission; 


(vii1) Considering our resources, although from the long-term angle, short-wave 
transmitters would be preferable for the immediate presentation of a proper image of India 
and her policies to the countries to the north and south-east of India, a powerful medium- 
wave transmitter would be more advantageous, particularly in view of the fact that most 
listening is done during the evening hours. 


Hon. Members will be glad to hear that it has accordingly been decided that All India 
Radio should go in for a super high power medium-wave transmitter for location at Calcutta 
in addition to the short-wave transmitters which have already been approved as mentioned 
earlier. 


Sir, I would like to apologise to the House because this news has appeared in the 
newspapers. 


ae मंद ak 2k मर oe ae he ae 


I can only say that when I was approached by the newspaper people, I only told them 
that no decision has been taken and that I would make an announcement on the 14th. 


me a और we a a aK ae भर 


I would also like to express my gratitude to hon. Members, because it was their interest 
in this question which helped us to get this decision of having all the transmitters. One of 
the hon. Members asked whether we have got it cleared. It has been cleared by the Finance 
Ministry and this is a Cabinet decision. : 


Shri Kamath asked abour our general policy in this regard. We have tried to step up 
our propaganda, and I would like to emphasise that the purposes of our broadcasts are not 
merely to counteract Chinese or Pakistani propaganda but, as I mentioned in my statement, 
to present a clear and correct picture of India. We want to play a positive role than a mere 
negative role. Once we get these transmitters, of course, our work will be very much easier. 


I was not in Rome and therefore I cannot say how much we heard there. 


mK HK मर FH मु aE fe oc 


The hon. Deputy Minister 18 pointing out to me that Pakistan Radio is somewhat nearer 
Rome than we are.* It is true that our services are not as strongly received as they should 
be. 


ok a ae ah ok ae जंर a 


* Referring to Shri Basappa who said when he was in Rome, the Indians there had told him that whereas Pakistan 
Radio was being heard, the Indian Radio was not being heard there. 


With these new transmitters we hope things will improve. In fact, in France we are 
heard, though not always, quite clearly. 


It is difficult for me to say by what time these transmitters will be available. Tenders 
have been invited. We have approached various countries. Finance has agreed to allow us 
to have these transmitters only on the condition that they are got from the rupee-—credit 
countries. We are approaching them to find out how soon we can have them. 


I am sorry about the dissolution of this committee. I must confess that I did not quite 
realise what its functions were. As soon as they gave their advice on the transmitter, | 
thought their work was over. We shall certainly reconsider this matter also. We could have 
a new committee, an expanded committee, or a different committee. 


He ea मर ak ak ake ea 
If itis felt necessary, we could have it.* I have already said that we have started action 
to acquire the transmitters. I am told it will take about two years to install them. 
ae afc ae 2 जद a ate oie ah 


We are trying to get them as soon as possible.** We have strengthened our field 
publicity units in our border areas as well since the Chinese aggression. 


With regard to frequencies, I do not think that I can say... 


We a aie mi 24 मु ae afe afc 


I am so told by the Ministry. We will, of course, try to do it earlier. The Deputy Minister 
says it may be one and a half years.*** 


I think I have covered all the questions. 


* Replying to Shri S.M. Banerjee’s comment : “Not with the same Members”, and Shri H.V. Kamath’s suggestion: 
There should be new personnel. 
** Replying to Shri Hari Vishnu Kamath who said, “Another two years? Time is against us. We have already lost 
two years.’ 


*** Replying to Shri Hari Vishnu Kamath who wanted to know as to whose report it was that it would take two years 
to install the transmitters; and to Mr. Dy. Speaker who wanted to know as to why should it take two years? 


495 


Peaceful Use of Atomic Energy” 


...One of the points made firstly was about electronics. It is a very important subject, 
but actually it does not come under this department at all, except for the Electronics 
Corporation at Hyderabad, which was just started last year and which will produce goods 
worth over Rs. 75 lakhs in one year. 


The Government is very much concerned with what is called brain drain which my 
hon. friend opposite referred to and we are trying to do whatever we can to see that we 
are able to help our brilliant young scientists. But unfortunately, we cannot afford the type 
of opportunities that are available in the USA, Canada and so on. We are looking at this 
and we are in touch with a number of them. As the hon. Member** knows, it is not only 


us, but even advanced countries like the U.K. who are facing this problem in a very big 
way. 


One hon. Member has urged an alteration of our policy to utilise atomic energy for 
peaceful purposes. This is a matter on which I have spoken at length in reply to questions 
and on other occasions also. But because it is very important and reference is made to it 
time and again, I would like to say a few words on it. I would like to assure the hon. 
Member opposite that whatever policy the Government follows, has nothing to do with 
whether the particular scientist believes in non-violence or not. That is his private business. 
If he is in charge of a programme like this, he has to follow whatever is the policy of the 
Government. And, that policy is framed after due consideration of the national interest, 
specifically with regard to national security I can assure the House that Government regards 
this as of paramount importance and this policy as well as all policies, bearing on security, 
are kept under constant review. But we do feel that the events of the last twenty years 
Clearly show that the possession of nuclear weapons have not given any military advantage 
in situations of bitter armed conflict which have sometimes taken place between nations 
possessing nuclear weapons and those who do not possess them. 


We think that nuclear weapons are no substitute for military preparedness, involving 
conventional weapons. The choice before us involves not only the question of making a 
few atom bombs, but of engaging in an arms race with sophisticated nuclear war-heads 
and an effective missile delivery system. Such a course, I do not think would strengthen 
national security. On the other hand, it may well endanger our internal security by imposing 


* Replying to the debate on the Demands for Grants, Dept. of Atomic Energy, 1968-69, LS. Deb., 24 April, 1968, 
cc. 2869-74. 


** Shri Samar Guha. 


a very heavy economic burden which would be in addition to the present expenditure on 
defence. Nothing will better serve the interests of those who are hostile to us than for us 
to lose our sense of perspective and to undertake measures which would undermine the 
basic progress of the country. We believe that to be militarily strong, it is necessary to be 
economically and industrially strong. Our programme of atomic energy development for 
peaceful purposes is related to the read needs of our economy and would be effectively 
geared to this end. In the pursuit of this programme, our brilliant scientists are getting the 
Opportunity to acquire the latest knowhow and technical skills in the entire field of atomic 
energy. 


I feel that we can be rightly proud that in atomic energy matters as the hon. Member 
opposite has mentioned, this nation is regarded as one of the advanced nations. 


The attainment of self-sufficiency is one of the central themes in our programme. I do 
not know how much time I have got; otherwise, I have got a list of some of the things 
which we are doing. 


मंद ae मर मैप aie fe oc aie ae 


Uranium mining and the processing of ore at Jaduguda in Bihar, the exploitation of 
the sands of Kerala to produce atomic minerals, the Fuel Complex that is coming up at 
Hyderabad, the heavy water plant at Nangal and the new larger unit which will come up 
at Rana Pratap Sagar, the Electronics Factory at Hyderabad, the Fuel Reprocessing Plant 
at Tarapur, the Atomic Power Stations at Tarapur in Rajasthan, the establishment of the 
Power Projects Engineering Division of the Atomic Energy Commission to undertake 
design and construction of atomic power projects, the construction which has begun at 
Kalpakkam of a power station which is based on our own efforts, the proto-type fast breeder 
reactor, which will come by its side, are all helping us to lay a solid foundation for the 
application of atomic energy for national development. 


The break-through which was occurred in the cost of generating electric power by using 
atomic energy on a large scale is reflected in the current forecast that more than 50 per 
cent of the new generating capacity, which will be added in the world during the 70s, will 
be based on atomic energy. Moreover, large agro-industrial complexes established around 
low cost energy centres can permit developing areas to utilise these advantages even though 
the capacity of their grids is small. Atomic energy power stations would play a very valuable 
role in the future not only in areas where other sources of energy are expensive but as 
base load stations working alongside large hydro-electric installations. The significance 
of all this to our economy which is so heavily dependent on agriculture is tremendous. 


The Deputy Minister has just now given some indication of how the use of this energy 
can transform agriculture through radiation of seeds and so on and so forth. I shall not go 
into that. But we must realise the benefits of using atomic energy, its technology and 
equipment which are largely our own. It is only through efforts such as those that India 
can advance from a state of poverty to one of self-sustained growth and, as some hon. 
Members have mentioned, we could skip over various stages of development and profit 


from the experience of others. 


497 


- Hon. Members would be glad to know the production of a wide range of isotopes and 
thetr use for various purposes in medicine, industry and in research is being actively 
promoted in this country and is also earning us foreign exchange. The benefits of atomic 
energy can now come to the common man to give him a better life. 


No less basic are the efforts which we are making to attain self-sufficiency in the area 
of space research in relation to sounding rockets and a modest satellite launching capability, 
even though we entered this field ten years later. The Rohini rockets, which have so pleased 
our hon. friend, Professor Sharma, are only the fore-runners of a whole series of more 
advanced rockets. The Department of Atomic Energy will also bear the responsibility for 
the construction of the new commercial Satellite Communication Station for the Overseas 
Communications Service. And what is more significant is that a fully steerable large dish 
antenna of high precision will be fabricated in India. We shall also build a Variable Energy 
Cyclotron at Calcutta to provide a valuable tool for research. 


During the next year we can confidently look forward to good progress in regard to 
the ambitious projects which have been undertaken by Indian scientists and engineers. 


I should like to take this opportunity of expressing my appreciation of the excellent 
work which brilliant young people in our establishments are doing. 


Even though the cut motions have not been moved, I would just like to refer very briefly 
to one or two of them because some of them give a wrong impression as the word ‘failure’ 
is used so often that anybody seeing them will get the impression that no good work is 
being done. 


The Bhabha Atomic Research Centre in Trombay has three experimental reactors; two 
of them are entirely designed and built by Indian scientists and engineers and the fact that 
these two reactors are working satisfactorily surely shows that experimental knowledge 
has been acquired about fission of critical mass of nuclear material. 


There was mention why we were exporting thorium. The exports of thorium mineral 
are banned but thorium nitrate, which is used in the manufacture of gas mantles, has been 
and is being exported from this country. India has very large deposits of this material and 
they are far in excess of what we are likely to require for a very long time; in fact, I am 
told that known Deposits will suffice for the next few hundred years. So, it would be a 
pity if we were not to use this natural resource for obtaining foreign exchange which we 
sO vitally require for use in other areas. 


There was one point made as to why universities were not used. The Department 1s 
supporting research projects in universities and scientific institutions and is, in addition, 
giving fellowships to deserving candidates. 


Another Member referred to the point that we had failed to provide technical means 
to detect nuclear explosions undertaken by China. I think, this matter was taken up 1n the 
House. We have detected all Chinese nuclear explosions; our own scientists have detected 
them. 


22222 
ie 
ees 
eo 4 22 
2 

Pn 

"se 

८; 
ot 


2:22 20175 0 REO NE 
ORSON SAN RE aan e NY 
a6 
nS 


Na a3 
(5 


me rs 
oe oi 
ee ; 
22221 
a 


All these projects to which I have referred will provide real returns for the investment 
which we have made in this field in the last 20 years. I am glad that our programme 
commands such widespread support. It is quite true that we have not been able to give to 
it the funds which it really requires, but it is a deficiency from which we suffer all along 
the line. I do agree with those hon. Members who feel that this is very important to our 
development and that we should give whatever support we can to it. Government is 
determined and committed to pursue the atomic energy and space research projects with 
all possible speed. We fully realise their greater importance to the development and progress 
of our country towards a self-reliant future. 


499 


Apollo—13* 


Mr. Speaker, Sir, with your persmission I should like to refer to the safe return of the 
Astronauts last week, and express the pleasure and admiration of this House and of the 
people of India for the magnificent achievement of the scientists and technicians of the 
U.S. Space Agency. 


Many Members of this House may have sat up on Friday night, as I did, awaiting news 
of the splashdown and must have shared the tremendous relief, when the news did come 
through that Lovell, Haise and Swigert were back on earth, sound in body and unvanquished 
IN Spirit. 


In olden days, we spoke of perilous seas. Yet, the perils of outer space are far more 
awesome than any that had been known. When the spaceship Apollo-13 developed trouble 
last week, the anxiety was world-wide and one of the more welcome aspects of this 
harrowing experience was the fact that it linked the peoples of the world into one family. 
When he was in Bombay, Ambassador Keating was asked about the welfare of ‘our 
Astronauts’. The three brave men belonged to the United States, but we looked upon them 
as representatives of the human race, and of the spirit of man. 


The Apollo—13 mission might have failed in its avowed objective of making a third 
landing on the moon. But it is one of those instances when failure can be deemed greater 
than victory. The rescue operations proved once again the extraordinary power and precision 
of the instruments of modern technology and even mote remarkable than the instruments 
are the minds which devise and control them. Our congratulations go out to the Scientists 
and Technologists of tne Ground Control Systems, whose work has enabled the astronauts 
to return safely. 


I am glad that the prayers and good wishes expressed by you, Sir, and other Members 
of the House were of avail. I offer congratulations and greetings to the astronauts Lovell, 
Haise and Swigert and to their families; also to the Space Scientists and to the people of 
the United States. 


* Statement about the safe return of the Astronauts, L.S. Deb., 20 April, 1970, cc. 1-2. 


res 
ies oh fe RAS eae AIR वि ates 20 BC Oth ayy MEER ST ety VR aati iy Sigh 70727 020 


Nuclear Technology for India* 


The hon. Member** has shown fairly great interest in the subject and very persistently 
so for a quite some time. As he has mentioned, he has raised this subject in other forms 
also. However, it is after some time that he is coming back to the engineering side of it. 
Normally his demand has been for the manufacture of an atom bomb. 


If I may skip the long introduction, the main question he has asked is why we are 
preventing the Atomic Energy Commission from going in for nuclear blasting and for using 
nuclear energy for engineering; why are we opposed to it? Now, Sir, we are not at all 
opposed to the use of nuclear energy for peaceful purposes when a meaningful application 
on mere economic significance is identified. This was an important part in our opposition 
to the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty. 


The hon. Member has mentioned about some of the experiments which have taken 
place in USA. We know that such blasts and experiments have also taken place in the Soviet 
Union and perhaps few in France also. Although this wording seems to irritate the hon. 
Members, I must say again that our scientists have tried their best to keep themselves 
informed of these developments and they are in the picture so far as this matter is concerned. 
At the present moment the peaceful use of nuclear explosives and detonators is very much 
in the developmental stage and a practical technology of economic value based on such 
uses has not yet emerged. In other words the nuclear detonator as a substitute for TNT is 
not yet on the market as a commercial proposition, as there are many complicated problems 
connected with this development which are yet to be solved. 


ae मंद मर He tek 6 CO 


If the hon. Member is reading the magazines and papers which come from other 
countries he would have noticed that the one thing which is greatly occupying the minds 
of people in the West is concerned with the changes in the environment which any scientific 
experiment can bring about : for instance, the effects on the environment as a result of 
residual radioactivity. In an underground explosion there is always the danger of the 
contamination of ground-water. For many years many things were being done in all these 
countries which we all looked up to as advanced technology, of advanced country, but 
today these very things are being looked at with new eyes. We see how, although they 


* Replying to the Half-an-Hour Discussion on the use of nuclear engineering technology for peaceful purposes, LS. 
Deb., 20 April, 1970, cc. 380-83, 389-92. 


** Shri Samar Guha. 


501 


have led to progress in some directions, at the same time such actions have done great 
-harm in other directions, as well as this matter is occupying great deal of energy, money 
and the attention of the public. Obviously they now consider these ill-effects to be quite 
serious for the population. 


As I said, apart from the uncertainty regarding the amount of radioactivity, such 
explosions would also cause serious ecological changes which will be far more significant 
in the long run. 


मे क॑ के ae he मं ae ae ae 


There 1s such a thing as a clean blast, but, as I said earlier, in all these countries this is 
still in the experimental stage*. We are in touch with developments, in the sense that our 
scientists have attended the meeting, they have gone to the sites before the explosion took 
place, they have been explained the whole thing, they have seen the place after the blast— 
that 1s what we mean by saying that we are fully in touch. Yet, for a country like India, 
whether such experiments at this stage are economically feasible and whether they can 
give results which are commensurate with the expense, is a matter for consideration. As I 
said, should we feel that this is necessary for any particular project, we would not hesitate 
to do it, but we must see the problem from all aspects. As Professor Samar Guha has himself 
pointed out, we are going ahead in many directions. He mentioned food preservation, 
medicines, agriculture, etc. There is also the use of isotopes for studying the silt in the 
harbour and many other such things. 


ae a के aK IK मं eK a 


I can assure the hon. Member that we are not stopping scientists**. They are in no 
way being stopped from making experiments. They are today engaged in gathering greater 
knowledge in all directions so that when it is necessary to take up any project we will be 
fully ready with the knowledge and experience. They are the people who will decide, in 
consultation with us, what is the nght place, what is the nght project for using such 
technology and in what ways it will be more useful ? Whether India can start now when 
even in other countries which are so much more advanced in this technology, the matter 
is still at an experimental stage, whether it helps us at this moment to do some 
experimentation, is a matter which has to be considered. 


I think the hon. Member Dr. Guha raised another point with which he was very much 
concerned. That was with regard to our withholding information. We have never withheld 
any information from the House which can be given to the House. For instance, in reply 
to an earlier question, we have given information regarding the amount of heavy water. I 
think it was Dr. Guha’s question. 


ae मर me ae और ek मर 


* Replying to Shri Samar Guha’s observations : “The clean devices of atomic explosions are there and there is no 
radio-activity falling out; they have developed this system in U.S.A. and Russia.” 


** Replying to Sbri Samar Guha who said, “I am proud of our atomic scientists; but unfortunately you are not allowing 
them to go ahead.” 


४ 2 इक tg RR GE eam ere itty 40०५ Oa SE ARIS पट Eve? atte) Rate BO कल wn pene nes, के ata Tho BPMN 88 2 20 5 कटरा लय फट avs की ene पा दल de” RG ag ©) फिट लय my SLUR tar Sa ie oh 


I think we said that the Nangal Plant produces about 14 tonnes of heavy water per 
year. But regarding some other information, we did feel that it was not useful to give to 
the House. 


As the hon. Member knows, there are many items of information which are guessed 
at by other countries. And there are some items of information which are known to some 
people. But, there is no reason why this information should be made available to all 
countries publicly. 


Some matters may come up when we are discussing defence or other such matters. I 
am sure the House will appreciate that it is one thing for people to guess at information, 
and it is another thing for authoritative information being given by Government. People 
can always guess a certain figures. I do not think the hon. Member has asked anything 
else. 


I have just mentioned some of the problems connected with the development of this 
technology—one about the effect on the environment, the contamination and so on, and 
the other about the actual usefulness of exploiting ores of indigenous origin by creating 
cavities from such blasts and reaching the ores. Reaching in Situ type of ore is economically 
feasible, but this may not be necessarily suitable for all types of ores and specially the 
types which we have in India. 


fe he मै a afc ae ae मं ae 


I must say that I entirely agree with the hon. Member™* that the provision for atomic 
energy is not sufficient. But the hon. Member knows just as well as I do the financial 
limitations under which we have to function. 


It is a question of seeing what item or what programme 1s curtailed. In this process all 
State plans are pruned; and the Central plans are pruned; the Minister of Education was 
just saying how much his programmes have been cut. So, this is something about which 
none of us can be happy. But we can only enlarge these programmes if we can enlarge 
our overall resources. 


I am sorry that some strong words were used with regard to the Chairman of our Atomic 
Energy Commission. Dr. Vikram Sarabhai is a dedicated and knowledgeable scientist and 
it is very unfair to say that he is blocking the atomic energy programme in anyway. On 
the contrary, I think that he is doing his utmost to go ahead with it as fast as possible. Dr. 
Bhabha was a very great scientist, and it is true that he has left a void in our scientific 
life. But if we do not have one person to fill that void, I think the younger scientists as a 
community are trying their best to fill it. 


mK मंद मर मैप मेष मर AE OK 


The other question asked was, whether we should have an expert committee. The 
Atomic Energy. Commission is such an expert body; it is in touch with expert bodies, the 


* Shri B.K. Daschowdhury. 


503 


highest expert bodies, all over the world. Therefore, it would not be possible to have another 
expert committee which could do more than this Commission is doing. (/mterruptions) Shri 
“Shiva Chandra Jha’s question is covered by what I have said about the budget. 


eK a We AK और ae ae कर 


The NPT bans not only nuclear weapons but also other nuclear devices, and therefore, 
one has to keep this in view. But, as I said earlier, the most important thing for us is to 
gather knowledge about all these matters. That is the only way in which we can go ahead. 
And as you see, today we are getting knowledge from other countries, and also help from 
other countries; so much so, that the Indian component of reactor construction materials 
which were only 35 per cent for the Rana Pratap Sagar reactor I, are now 78 per cent for 
the Madras reactor. We are going ahead. 


Much has been said about peaceful nuclear explosion in other countries. I find from a 
paper, which I have, that there are a great many unknown factors. ‘A great deal of 
information on the properties of nuclear explosions and in fact their effects relative to 
conventional explosives must still be developed. This was confirmed by the conclusions 
reached by the Board of Governors of the IAEA after it discussed the findings of the 
committee established last year on the applications of nuclear explosion for peaceful 
purposes and the role of the Agency in this matter. 


The Board concluded that— 


“In the light of the experimental status of the technology, the Agency should 
approach this subject on an evolutionary basis, devoting its attention initially 
to the exchange and dissemination of information.” 


That is why, since this is still at the experimental stage, I think it would not be wise for us 

to go into it immediately, but as I said, we should endeavour in every possible way to ~ 
gain knowledge and learn from the experiments which other nations are undertaking, so 
that we are ourselves placed in a better position. 


504 : 


Council of Scientific and Industrial Research* 


I had no intention of speaking but since Shri Vajpayee and some others have made 
various allegations against me I should like to say a few words. 


Firstly, we all know that the progress of our country and the well-being of our people 
are largely dependent on the progress of Indian science and also on the well-being and the 
feeling of involvement of Indian scientists in the great tasks which face our country. 
Therefore India’s future cannot be divorced from the future of Indian science. 


We are discussing today a very serious matter. We should discuss it without any 
prejudice or bias. Unfortunately, I do see traces of prejudice in this discusison. Various, 
rather intemperate and unfortunate, allegations have been made. As Prof. Mukerjee said a 
while ago, some of us have become thickskinned because we have got used to these baseless 
allegations thrust on us day after day, but this does not, therefore, give any more credence 
to those allegations. 


I would, first of all, like to deal with myself and would like to deny categorically that 
I put any pressure on the Chairman or any member of the Committee, that I sent any 
message to them or that I met any of them. Of course, I may have met one or two Members 
of Parliament during this period but not concerning this business. If they met me, they did 
not mention anything about the meetings of this Committee. So far as I am concerned, 
certainly there was no direct or indirect message for me, nor did I even know what the 
Committee was doing until I received the final report. 


Allegations have also been made about the integrity and impartiality of the Chairman 
and indirectly against the Committee as a whole. Prof. Mukerjee spoke just now about his 


personal knowledge of Justice Sarkar. 


a ae मै ft मर aie aK मं a 


You are perfectly entitled to have your views** and the hon. Member, Shn Hiren 
Mukerjee, is entitled to his views. | am at this moment referring to something which he 
said. I was going to say that I myself did not know Justice Sarkar except that I may have 
met him on one or two formal occasions. But certainly his reputation in his sphere of 


* Participating in the debate on the Motion regarding Report of the Committee of Inquiry (Council of Scientific and 
Industrial Research), 7. 6. Deb., 19 May, 1970, cc. 297-302. 
** Replying to Shri Madhu Limaye’s remarks, “That is irrelevant. Let us go by the action, the report of the Committee.” 


505 


activity has been an exceedingly high one. Also, his work, whether it was in the Supreme 
Court or wherever he has functioned, has one which has upheld the dignity of the whole oes 


~ Indian judiciary. Therefore I am very sorry that such insinuations were made. I think that nee 


it was night of the members of the Committee to say something about it. oe 


The hon. Member took ot‘ection to this. J think, the members of the Committee did 
not object to criticism of the work of the Committee. It is the right of Parliament to have 
such a discussion, and to criticise but not to doubt the integrity or the bona fides of a person. 
Therefore, I think, the members of the Committee were perfectly within their nghts when 
they expressed their own great respect for Justice Sarkar and complete faith in his 
impartiality and detachment. I should like to re-affirm the Government’s respect for him 
and also their regard for his impartiality and the manner in which he has dealt with an 
extremely difficult task in the public interest and has approached it without bias. 


This is evident in the Report which does not hesitate to mention every relevant fact, 
whether favourable or unfavourable. I am sorry that instead of appreciating the Committe’s 
objectivity, some hon. Members seem to have espoused factionalism, which unfortunately, 
has prevailed in the C.S.IL.R. 1 have no hesitation in admitting that all is not well with the 
C.S.I.R. All has not been well with the C.S.I.R. That is why this Committee had to be 
appointed. We are fully aware that much needs to be done. Although this factionalism is 
regrettable, as I have said on a previous occasion, this is not an exclusively Indian 
monopoly. It is everywhere amongst scientists. (Interruption) 


ae oe a aK ok eK a 


I am just saying, let us see things in their perspective. Scientists are also human beings. 
This is what I am trying to say. We should not think that only other people can quarrel 
and disagree and that scientists belong to another species and are above that sort of thing. 
Although we greatly respect their work, which is very essential for modem life, they are 
also human beings and they also suffer from emotions, rivalries and so on which other 
human beings have. 


Hon. Members will recall a bitter, an almost vicious, personal, controversy between 
Oppenheimer and Teller in U.S.A. and also the British scientific row between Lindeman 
(later Lord Cherwell) and Sir Henry Tizard, the Chairman of the Aeronautical Research 
Committee. 


2k oi a ae aie मं ic a fe 
[ am not at all encouraging that. Although appointments and so on have come in, that 


is not the whole of the story. There are differences in outlook and differences in the methods 
of working and so on.* 


The Members of the Sarkar Committee included eminent Members of Parliament and 
also some of our most distinguished scientists. Hon. Members are aware that the M.P’s. 


* Replying to Shri Samar Guha who said : “That was on a big policy matter, not on appointments, it was on whether 
Hydrogen Bomb should be made or not and Dr. Oppenheimer opposed Hydrogea Bomb.” 


who were in this Committee were not drawn from a single political party, but they 
represented a wide range of opinion in both Houses of Parliament. The scientific members 
were also chosen from different disciplines and institutions and they are all renowned 
figures in the international scientific community. Two of them are Fellows of Royal Society. 
The Government have taken particular care to exclude anyone connected, in any way, with 
the C.S.LR or with its governing body. 


The Committee of Enquiry have sifted a vast mass of documentary evidence and 
representations both from C.S.LR. employees and others and they had personal discussions 
with many people. As hon. Members know—I think, this is where Prof. Samar Guha got 
confused—the Committee have recommended that an officer independent of the C.S.LR. 
should be appointed to look into the allegations and to make a thorough investigation into 
such of the complaints as disclosed a prima facie case as a result of preliminary 
examination. The Government accept this recommendation and propose to implement it 
speedily. This is what we have accepted and not a separate committee enquiry as Prof. 
Samar Guha thought. When we formed this Committee, it was not the intention either of 
the Government or of Parliament that Justice Sarkar or the Committee should waste their 
time in the negative pursuit of witch-hunting. Some witch-hunting we had witnessed earlier 
on in various debates in both Houses. 


The Committee’s terms of references were framed in a constructive spirit and so far 
as I remember, nobody ever protested that these terms were inadequate or contrary to the 
general sense of the House. 


The re-organization of Indian science 18 a very serious matter. We have to make every 
effort to enthuse our scientists by creating an atmosphere which 1s congenial to scientific 
pursuits. We must not do or say anything which may demoralise them. We can certainly 
discuss their work but not their individual histories. Our purpose in appointing the Sarkar 
Committee was to improve the CSIR, not to destroy it, to find a way in which talent, 
creativity and initiative could be allowed to flourish, not to strangle them, to give our 
scientists, young and old, a genuine sense of participation in India’s progress, not to alienate 
or fragment them further. These larger considerations formed the basis of the Committee’s 
terms of rerefence and will, I presume, form the focus of their recommendations in Part II 
of their report which is still awaited. 


There was a dissenting note but it was confined to 8 of the 270 cases which were 
examined by the Committee. In all other cases the Committee's recommendations were 
unanimous. Where the Commitee have recorded an adverse verdict, the Government 
propose to institute the necessary inquiry. I can assure the House that the Government are 
acutely conscious of the problems and frustrations of our scientists. Some of these are world 
wide problems like the brain drain which affects even advanced countries such as England 
and Germany. Some of them are peculiar to India and stem from the hierarchical 
consciousness which is so deeply ingrained in our society. There are others which derive 
from the imposition of patterns of general administration on the entirely different 


requirements of scientific administration. 


507 


The hon. Member* who spoke just before me spoke about certain rules. Now, I do not 
Say that we should break rules but I do think that we should have different rules for 
scientists. | 


ake a a ae ai ak ae a a 


That is why the whole matter has been gone into. I am not defending CSIR. **As I 
said, I am myself deeply conscious of all that was wrong and still is wrong. The Committee 
iS going into this and at our level, we are ourselves trying to look into the matter and see 
how we can help the scientific community to work together. I mention this because the 
question of age and so on were raised. Well, generally, I am not in favour of giving 
extensions and so on. But there are cases where a person with some special knowledge or 
experience may be more helpful. Another thing is that many of these young men who are 
disappointed here and do not fit in with our rules or whatever terms we have put in, go 
abroad and get very fine jobs, not merely junior jobs, some of them are put in charge of 
the whole department. So there must be something wrong here where we are unable to fit 
these young people, and the same people do well elsewhere. They are not rejects. They 
do not take some low down jobs. They get excellent posts and responsible jobs abroad. I 
know a number of cases like this to which my attention has been drawn. 


All this shows that human beings are such, that no matter how much you try to have 
an egalitarian society, some kind of a hierarchy does grow up. Today, scientific work comes 
in one of the top strata, if not the top class, in the most countries but, unfortunately not in 
our own. This may be one of the reasons why our young brilliant scientists feel discouraged. 
We must certainly see how we can help to change this situation and make it more congenial 
for them. 


Lhave nothing against our older scientists who have done brilliant work, excellent work. 
But, the world of science is constantly changing and advancing. Therefore we have to see 
that the younger people are not shut off and that they get ample opportunities for expressing 
themselves and working freely. 


Whatever constructive suggestions hon. Members may make are always welcome. But 
we should resist the temptation of reckless criticism and sweeping condemnation of an 
institution such as the C.S.I.R. Because, while it has had many defects, it has also got 
notable achievements to its credit and in varying degree, each one of its laboratories has 
made a distinctive contribution to our progress in the last two decades. 


Our endeavour should be to function in such a way that we invigorate and strengthen 
all that is good in it for the common benefit of our people. 


* Shri G. Viswanathan. 
** Replying to some Members’ remark : “Change the rules”. 


Underground Nuclear Explosion Experiment* 


Hon. Members are aware that at 08-05. hours on 18 May, 1974, our Atomic Energy 
Commission successfully carried out an underground nuclear explosion experiment at a 
depth of more than 100 metres in the Rajasthan desert. This experiment was part of the 
research and development work which the Atomic Energy Commission has been carrying 
on in pursuance of our national objective of harnessing atomic energy for peaceful purposes. 


Hon. Members may recall that on 15 November, 1972, I had stated in the Lok Sabha 
that “The Atomic Energy Commission is studying conditions under which peaceful nuclear 
explosions carried out underground could be of economic benefit to India without causing 
environmental hazards”. Exactly one year later, on 15 November, 1973, I informed hon. 
Members of the Rajya Sabha of the continuing interest of the Atomic Energy Commission 
in this field and also stated that after satisfactory answers to the problems of the possible 
effects on environmental and ecological conditions are available, the question of actual 
underground tests for peaceful purposes could be considered. 


I am glad to inform hon. Members that this successful experiment on 18 May has 
not resulted in any way in radio-active contamination of the atmosphere. The radio-activity 
was so well contained that a party of scientists was able to fly 30 metres above the site 
and reach upto 250 metres on the ground within an hour of the experiment without 
encountering any radioactive contamination. The Atomic Energy Commission is at present 
engaged in studying the result of the experiment. It is expected that this process will take 
about six months. In keeping with scientific tradition, the Atomic Energy Commission 
propose to publish papers giving the results of the experiment for the benefit of the scientific 


world. 


All the material, equipment and the personnel in this project were totally Indian. India 
has not violated any international law or obligation or any commitment in this regard 


with any country. 


This experiment has evoked mixed response from various countries. While developing 
nations have, by and large, welcomed the experiment aS a jam the research and 
development work carried on by India in the field of atomic energy for peaceful purposes, 
advanced nations, with some exceptions, have not shown equal understanding. The United 
States of America, while expressing satisfaction that the International Atomic Energy 


* Statement regarding the Underground Nuclear Explosion Experiment, L.S. Deb,. 22 July, 1974, cc. 264-269. 


Agency’s safeguards system has worked in regard to agreements with India and that the 
material used has not come from the United States, have reiterated that the policy of that 
Government is against nuclear proliferation. The USSR have noted that India has carried 
out a research programme striving to keep level with the world technology in the peaceful 
uses of nuclear explosion. The Chairman of the Indian Atomic Energy Commission has 
received a congratulatory message from the French Atomic Energy Commission on the 
success of the experiment. China officially reported the event without commenting on 
the explosion. The reaction of the Government of Japan has been to express regret for 
the experiment. 


Reactions from Canada and our neighbour, Pakistan, have been sharp. While Canada 
is satisfied that India has not violated any agreement between the two countries, the 
‘Canadian Secretary of State for External Affairs has stated that the experiment represented 
a severe set-back to efforts being made in the international community to prevent all nuclear 
testing and to inhibit the proliferation of nuclear explosion technology. 


The Government of India is unable to subscribe to the view expressed by the 
representatives of the Canadian Government in this regard. I have repeatedly reaffirmed 
our policy of using nuclear energy for peaceful purposes and have specifically stated that 
we have no intention of developing nuclear weapons. The Government of India sincerely 
hopes that the Government of Canada will appreciate and understand the background of 
this experiment. I have already mentioned in the earlier part of this statement the fact that 
our Atomic Energy Commission has been reviewing the progress in this technology from 
the theoretical and experimental angles. This intention was not kept secret and was made 
known to the world. If differences of interpretation have arisen between the Government 
of Canada and the Government of India, it is the Government of India’s hope that they 
will be satisfactorily resolved in the discussions which are under way between the 
representatives of the two countries. 


The Government of India is unable to comprehend the repeated talk of nuclear blackmail 
indulged in by the representatives of the Government of Pakistan. I have explained in my 
letter to Prime Minister Bhutto the peaceful nature and the economic purposes of ‘this 
experiment and have also stated that India is willing to share her nuclear technology with 
Pakistan in the same way as she is willing to share it with other countries provided proper 
conditions for understanding and trust are created. I once again repeat this assurance and 
hope that the Government of Pakistan will accept India’s position in this regard. 


The Government of Pakistan has also made allegations about radio-activity having been 
carried to that country. I should like to take this opportunity of stating that this was 
impossible as there was no venting of radioactivity to the atmosphere and no formation of 
a radioactive cloud. Moreover, the wind was blowing in the opposite direction as it normally 
does at this time of the year and even in theory, any hypothetical radioactivity could never 
have gone to Pakistan. The wind pattern on 18 May, 1974 was from, repeat from, the 
south-west. 


There are several published reports by scientists from advanced countries on the 
potential utilisation of peacefull nuclear experiments. In 1970, 1971 and 1972, the 


510 


International Atomic Energy Agency organised Panel Meetings on the peaceful uses of 
nuclear explosions and India attended all these meetings as a Panel Member. In the 
Foreword to the Peaceful Nuclear Explosions Phenomenology and Status Report, 1970, 
an indication has been given of the projects for which peaceful nuclear explosions could 
be used. The following quotation will be adequate in this regard:- 


“Fully contained nuclear explosion (those not breaking through to the ground surface) 
could be used for many projects. On an industrial level pilot-scale experiments have 
already been made on gas and oil stimulation, with encouraging results. In addition, 
the use of cavities created by such explosions appeared to have an economically 
attractive future for projects such as underground gas and oil storage, and the storage 
of radioactive wastes from nuclear power stations and chemical plant, for in situ 
retorting of oil from shale like deposits, and for in situ leaching of low-grade ores 
broken up by the explosion. The latter application is of particular interests to one 
Member State, India, who could by this means use her very large low-grade non-ferrous 
metal ore deposits, thus making her more independent of imports of these metals and 
furthering the national economy”. 


In view of the fact that we have just now carried out the experiment and the results 
will be available to us after six months, it 1s considered premature to talk of any particular 
technological application at a selected site. For any project of this nature to be considered 
economical and feasible, more experimental, data must be available. 


Hon. Members will notice that in the Panel discussions to which I have referred and 
in which most of the advanced countries have participated, it was emphasised that activities 
in the field of peaceful nuclear explosion are essentially research and development 
programmes. Against this background, the Government of India fails to understand why 
India is being criticised on the ground that the technology necessary for the peaceful nuclear 
explosing is no different from that necessary for a weapons programme. 


No technology is evil in itself; it is the use that nations make of technology which 
determines its character. India does not accept the principle of apartheid in any matter and 
technology is no exception. * 


* A similar Statement was made by the Prime Minister, Smt. Indira Gandhi in Rajya Sabha also (R.S. Deb., 22 July, 
1974, cc 185-89). 


§11 


Launching of First Indian Satellite* 


Mr. Speaker, Sir, the House has taken note of the successful launching of the first Indian 
Satellite at 1300 hours (IST) on April 19, 1975. The satellite was wholly designed and 


fabricated in India and was launched from the Soviet Union with the help of a Soviet Rocket 
Carrier. 


This outstanding achievement, the first by a developing country, marks yet another 
milestone in our efforts to harness the benefits of modern science and technology for 
national development. Apart from their purely scientific objectives, research and technology 


involving the peaceful uses of outer space can contribute significantly to the solution of 
economic and social problems. 


The satellite and the entire ground system needed for launching and maintenance were 
built within a short period of less than three years. I should like to place on record my 
own and the Government’s deep appreciation of the dedicated and conscientious work of 
our scientists and engineers in the Indian Space Research Organisation under the leadership 
of Prof. Satish Dhawan and all the others who collaborated. I should also like to take this 


Opportunity to convey our thanks to the Soviet Union for their help during the project and 
for making available the launch facilities. 


* Statement regarding successful launching of the First Indian Satellite, 1.5. Deb., 21 April, 1975, cc. 324-25. 


$12 


Launching of SLV-3* 


Sir, I want to share some good news with you and the hon. Members. 


I have pleasure in informing the House that the first successful launch of the Indian 
Satellite Launch Vehicle SLV-3 took place this morning at 8.03.45 hours from Sriharikota 
Range. The Launch Vehicle placed a 35 kg. Indian Satellite Rohini RS-I in orbit around 
the earth. The Satellite will orbit the earth approximately once every 90 minutes. SHAR 
will see two orbits for the first time tonight. Thereafter every twelve hours two more such 
orbits will be seen over SHAR in regular periodicity. 


The four-stage all solid-propellant vehicle has been developed in India by Indian 
Scientists and Engineers. The total development cost of the SLV-3 Vehicle is about Rs. 20 
crore and the present experimental launch has cost about Rs. 1 crore. The Rohini satellite 
in orbit is intended mainly to measure the performance parameters of the Vehicle and is 
being tracked by our National Tracking network. Initial indications are that the Vehicle 
and Satellite function satisfactorily. 


The collection of tracking data and the analysis are continuing. 


This is a notable achievement for India and for Indian Science. I am sure the House 
will join me in congratulating our scientists and technicians of the Department of Space. 
The nation is proud of them and wishes them further successes. (/nterruptions) 


+Shri Vajpayee had made a mention of science, so I thought it appropriate to speak 
about it at this very moment. 


* Statement regarding launching of SLV-3, 1.5. Deb., 18 July, 1980, cc. 276-77. 
t Translated from Hindi. 


$13 


Successful Launching of APPLE* 


This Calling Attention has gone far beyond its original intentions. Firstly, of course, 
the hon. Member has asked what is the utilisation of it ? This has been told before. But 
the most tmportant is emergency communication in disaster affected areas so as to be able 
to help in rapid relief work. It has already been said that it will give advance warming of 
calamities such as cyclone etc. which will be of enormous value of saving human lives as 
well as property. 


It can give educational T.V. programmes between universities and technological 
institutions. The Members who spoke earlier said that it gives us a closer link with remoter 
areas 1.९. improved tele-communication between different stations using this technique and 
specially in places which we have not been able to reach earlier. 


There are various things, live telecast programmes of national importance and live 
broadcast on national programmes. T.V. telecast with multiple audio for multi-language 
video programme transmission and so on. With PSLV now under development, we shall 
be able to place the other satellite in the sun synchronous orbit by 1986. INSAT-I will be 
launched by U.S.A. Rocket in 1982. 


Of course, we are proud of our scientists. With all due respect to the hon. Members, 
we should not take away any of the light from them for the leadership. This is their 
achievement. The scientists, the engineers—there are some names which are well known 
and which were introduced in the inauguration programme—but there are many others 
unknown who have been working behind the scenes. It is their achievement. To-day we 
should direct all our appreciation and congratulations to them rather than to the political 
leadership. 


I am proud to belong to a party which from the beginning has given importance to 
science and has realised the great role that science can play in development and in helping 
to eradicate poverty, making drudgery a little less for our people and gradually bringing 
them the things that they need. But for that we must have knowledge. Science is what 
give us knowledge and with science we have technology which gives us the capability to 
translate this knowledge into activities and programmes which will be of direct benefit to 
the people. At this stage, I need not go into greater detail. Actually, hon. Member is himself 
very knowledgeable in all these subjects. 


ae ae के He a मर मै He a 


* While speaking in response to a Calling Attention relating to the successful launching of the APPLE, L.S. Deb., 17 
August, 1981, cc. 348-53. 


514 


We have science clubs in many of our educational institutions and without our 
prompting, I am sure, they will be told about this achievement. But, as I said in reply to 
an earlier question, the Education Ministry should look into this and help to encourage 
such activity. 


3K मर me Hie ae Me a a 


{We do not get any such information through APPLE**. The countries like the U.S.A. 
do have such satellites, through which they can have information about us or any other 
country. We are making use of the scientific knowledge in the service of the poor and for 
the good of the country; keeping this in view, progress in science is being made. 


In future when we will have multi-spectral cameras, then we shall be able to get more 
information in the field of agriculture, forestry, water resources, hydrology, geology etc. 
This is not to be used for spying against any one. In so far as scientists are concerned they 
are appreciated. 


ae aha me 4c sak ok 


Mr. Speaker, Sir, with your permission, I should like to move :*** 


“Having heard the statement on the launching of the APPLE and the inauguration of 
the Utilisation Experimental Programme, this House places on record its deep 
appreciation of the dedicated work and patriotic zeal of our scientists, engineers, 
technicians and workers on this great achievement in the sphere of space 
technology.” **** 


eC a ae a aK oh a 


Sir, I would like to express my appreciation of hon. Members for joining us in this 
Resolution*****, I am not referring to some of the criticisms, some valid and some not 
valid, which have been made. But apart from the advantages which have been mentioned, 
the most useful information will be that it will be for the good of our farmers specially, 
that is, advance information about weather conditions, cyclones and so on. This, of course, 
is not with this development, but with later developments. I should also like to say to my 
friends on this side that this is an occasion when our appreciation and gratitude should be 
reserved for our scientists who have done this work in the field rather than bring in the 
political leadership. 


t Translated from Hindi. 
** Responding to Shri Krishnan Chander Pandey’s query, “...... I want to know from the Prime Minister whether 
through this (APPLE) we can have information about our enemies..." 
*** While moving the resolution regarding Appreciation of Indian Scientists for successful launching of the APPLE, 
LS. Deb., 17 August, 1981, ८. 355. 
*** (i) An identical Resolution was moved by the Prime Minister, Smt. Indira Gandhi in Rajya Sabha also 
(R.S. Deb., 20 August, 1981, c. 163). 


(ii) In both the Houses, the Resolution was adopted unanimously. 
«a**® Responding to the speeches made by members in Rajya Sabha associating themselves with Resolution, B.S. 


Deb., 20 August, 1981, c. 172. 


$15 


indian Expedition to Antarctica” 


Mr. Deputy Chairman, Sir, I have immense pleasure in informing the House of the 
successful landing of our first Indian scientific expedition to Antarctica at 00.30 hrs. on 
- the 9th January, 1982. Twenty-one scientists and technicians, drawn from different 
disciplines, participated. 


The main objectives were to study the meteorological and other conditions of Antarctica, 
which are believed to control the monsoons. The team also carried-out observations in 
glaciology, geo-magnetism, geology, and physical, chemical and biological oceanography. 
Their observations included measurements of temperature pressure wind speed, humidity, 
surface ozone, cloud visibility, radiation, radio wave propagation etc., on the way out of 
Antarctica, on the continent itself and on the return journey. 


Glaciology, geology and physical, chemical and biological conditions were observed 
on the Antarctican land mass. Some rock samples, which appeared to be similar to rocks 
found in the Deccan, were also collected. However, detailed analysis will be needed to 
establish whether the Deccan and Antarctica were joined together at any time. 


The expedition team set up on unmanned weather station to collect meteorological data 
in Antarctica. Power is supplied to the station by.solar panels fabricated in India. The 
continuous record on the cassette can be retrieved at the end of the year and replaced for 
further recording. The site of the station has been named ‘Dakshin Gangotni’ and a brass 
plaque commemorating the expedition has been put up. 


The team successfully tested the quality and performance of Indian equipment and 
materials like watches, walkie-talkie sets, cement, dehydrated food, batteries and nylon 
ropes in sub-zero temperature conditions. The team spent about 11 days on the continent. 
The leader is back and the rest of the team is expected to return to Goa on or around the 
20th of February, 1982. 


The successful landing of the expedition on Antarctica is one more proof, if such be 
needed, that Indian scientists and technologists have the capability to undertake the most 
hazardous and complex tasks. I am sure hon. Members will wish me to convey their 
congratulations to the entire team. We also acknowledge with appreciation the valuable 
supporting services provided by the Indian Navy. When the data are analysed, they should 
throw important light on the history of Antarctica and its effect on the climate of the Indian 


* Making a Statement on the Indian Scientific Expedition to Antarctica, R.S. Deb., 19 February, 1982, cc. 277-82. 


516 


Ocean region. In undertaking this advanced work India has now joined a select band of 
countries. The significance of this expedition for, and also its impact on, our younger 
generation will be as important as its scientific accomplishment. I hope it will imbue our 
younger generation with scientific temper and encourage them to take a keener interest in 
the oceans and their exploration. Let pride in achievement urge us forward to greater 
efforts.* 


aK 3 मर a oh af mi ae के 


Sir, it is obvious that in a matter like this, there is no question of political motivation 
except perhaps in the sense which I mentioned in the statement, i.e., of pride in the nation 
and its achievement and in furthering its national interests.** I have outlined what the 
Expedition was able to do and what we hope for. We hope further data will be forthcoming 
from our Station there. This can be most useful to our farmers as well as to other sections 
of the people. That was the major motivation. Also, of course, I feel that there is no reason 
why any part of the globe should be reserved entirely for the affluent and ncher countnes 
and not be open for a country like ours. I request my friend opposite not to put too much 
trust in what he reads in newspapers, specially those which have been consistently 
uncharitable about India. 


So far as the vessel used is concerned, we do not have a vessel at this moment which 
has the experience of such conditions of navigating between icebergs and so on. This 
particular vessel has been on such expeditions before and has an experienced crew. 


aK और ak a मर a at ie ae 


So far as the question of the treaty is concerned, I do not know why we have not signed 
it before. There must have been some good reason. But the matter will certainly be gone 
into again. 


* An identical Statement was made by the Prime Minister Smt. Indira Gandhi in Lok Sabha also (LS. Deb., 19 
February, 1982, cc. 425-28). 
** Shri Shiv Chandra Jha sought a clarification from the Prime Minister about the reported American Statement that 


the Indian Expedition to Antarctica was politically motivated. He also mentioned that the newspapers had reported 
that the vessels used were not ours and had been hired from abroad. Shri Jaswant Singh wanted to know as to why 


India was not a signatory to the agreement on the Antarctica ? 


517 


5 


PARLIAMENTARY AND CONSTITUTIONAL ISSUES 


Fifty-fifth Report of the PAC* 


Mr. Speaker, Sir, I have not very much more to say because most of the points have 
been met. I should like to express my deep appreciation of the guidance which you have 
‘given to this debate. It is because of that I feel hon. Members have used a considerable 
restraint and this has not been the mudslinging session which we had expected, and for 
that I am grateful to you and also to the hon. Members opposite. 


I should like to assure the House and, I think, I have done so on previous occasions 
also, that Iam second to none in supporting the view that all those who are guilty or corrupt 
should be punished for their actions. I assure the House that I shall not give protection to 
any such people. But, at the same time, 1 do have the responsibility to see that there is no 
sort of witch-hunting or general allegations which lead to a situation where the 
administration is paralysed. 


I am referring now not only to the remarks that were made about Ministers but even 
what was earlier said about our civil servants and officials. They are not in the House to 
defend themselves. Yet they do bear a heavy responsibility in the Government of the 
country. It is possible that some of them may not be upto standard; it is possible that some 
of them may be corrupt or incompetent. But, I think the sort of sweeping generalisations, 
as are sometimes made from the Opposition Benches, are unfortunate and far from cleaning 
up the service. I think, they do a great deal of harm because this only results in delays 
which lead again to greater corruption and complications. 


2 ak मे mh He ae af और 


By and large, I think our administrative service has a high reputation not only in our 
country but also in the view of experts who come and look at it from abroad. So, I would 
only say that we do not want to do anything which would create a feeling of uncertainty 
or uneasiness in them and reduce their effectiveness because, as I said earlier, much depends 
on their functioning. At the same time, I would repeat what I said earlier that wherever 
there is anything wrong, it has to be cleaned up. I do not want wrong-doing. I do want to 
look under the carpet and see what is wrong, not only what is wrong on the top but also 


what is wrong inside. 


Some hon. Members said something about the system. I agree there also that the system 
is responsible for a great deal; that is not as it should be. But this is something that cannot 


* Participating in the debate on the Motion regarding the Fifty-fifth report of the Public Accounts Committee, 
LS. Deb., 22 August, 1966, cc. 6217-24. 


$21 


unfortunately be cleaned with one sweep. You have to look at all these things in detail 
and one by one. Unfortunately general remarks like those made receive so much publicity 
here and abroad that again action does not become easier but is made more difficult. 


For the PAC we have the highest respect. I had told you some time ago of the 
Government’s decision to have the Inquiry Committee as recommended in the PAC’s report. 
At that time it was somehow felt that we should not make this announcement and, therefore, 
we did not say anything about it. Later—I think it was on the 12th August—the Minister 
of Iron and Steel conveyed this decision in writing to the Chairman of the Public Accounts 
Committee. This Committee will go into all matters and when their findings are before 
me. I shall certainly see that appropriate action on the basis of the Committee’s 
recommendations 1s taken. More than that, the House will obviously not expect me to say 
at this stage and indeed it will be contrary to the accepted propriety to do so. 


There is sometimes a tendency to jump to conclusions that, because some matters are 
before the Committee of Inquiry, the people concerned are necessarily guilty. It is perhaps 
this kind of presumption that creates resistance to inquiry but, as I said, we have taken the 
decision. 


Now it 1s significant that the 55th Report does not contain any recommendation for 
any specific action; I do not think it casts any doubt about the bona-fides of my colleague, 
Mr. Subramaniam. He has explained the position in the House on several occasions and 
you, Mr. Speaker, were yourself pleased to rule that he had not committed any breach of 
privilege. I was impressed by the fact that many Opposition speakers, who were severely 
Critical, did not suggest any dishonourable motives for the Minister’s revision of his order. 
Judgement in such matters, as he himself has said, is necessarily subjective in character 
and it is possible that the reasons for such a judgement may seem obscure after a lapse of 
time. 


In the light of what I have said, I hope that all hon. Members will agree to withdraw 
the various substitute motions. 


There is one thing which I forgot to mention; it is that the ban which Mr. Subramaniam 
had placed continues on this firm. When it was extended to cover other areas with which 
this firm is concerned, the firm has gone to court and a stay order on Government has 
been issued. 


a Ke a ae oh a ae a भर 


*Mr. Chairman, Sir, hon. Members have got rather excited, especially hon. Members 
of the Opposition, and when they are excited and angry they are apt to the swept away by 
their own eloquence. I hope they will excuse me if I am not swept away, nor even 
impressed, by this eloquence, because it merely hides the hollowness of their arguments. 
This is not the first time we have had such excitement, nor is it the first time that not only 


* Participating in the debate on the Motion regarding the Fifty fifth report of the Public Accounts Committee, R.S. 
Deb., 27 August 1966, cc. 4476-80. 


one Minister but the entire Government has been asked to resign. This, in fact, is a regular 
feature of this House and it has also become an unfortunate thing...... 


ae ek Hato ak मर 9k 


Here also I have heard this demand earlier on. Therefore, Sir, this type of eloquence 
neither moves me, nor convinces me, nor makes any difference in my thinking. Sir, I have 
a very responsible job on hand. It is to guide this country at the most critical period of its 
history; it is to guide the people through at a time of great suffering and hardship and it is 
at this time all efforts are being made to misguide the people, misguide the people not 
only in the matter of character assassination of which we have become familiar in these 
last years but misguide them even in things which are vital to their very existence, in the 
matter of food, delivery of food, distribution of food. Just now we are facing a strike in 
Bengal which, if it goes through, will greatly prevent food reaching a large number of 
people because it affects the drivers of trucks, those who are supposed to take the stocks 
of food. 


ae मंद मंद जप मर मं ae ak मर 


It is not irrelevant. I am just saying how the Opposition works up an atmosphere”... 


I think hon. Members who have strayed so far away from the matter on hand are hardly 
in a position to say that somebody else is off the point. 


However, Sir, I do not wish to go into all these matters here. I have said before, and I 
repeat today, and I shall continue to repeat, that I shall be second to none in seeing that 
anybody who 1s guilty of corruption, anybody who is guilty of wrong doing, is punished, 
but I must say equally strongly and with all the emphasis at my command that I am not 
going to be bullied, not by the Opposition, not by anybody at all. Sir, I think the way the 
Opposition is trying to take this country is disgraceful. Are we a nation of corrupt people? 
Who is there who can say that every Indian 1s corrupt, every firm 1s corrupt, every Minister 
is corrupt ? Is this not the most utter nonsense ? Is this not something which has brought 
disrepute to our country all over the world, in the Press of the world, in the eyes of the 
world ? (Interruptions) 


ae i अर at ie मंद a अर भर 


Several Members of the Opposition have levelled a general charge of corruption against 
the Government, not only against the Minister for Food. I have been sitting here all day. 
You are quite free to look up the records after the debate is over. This charge has been 
levelled. I know there are faults in the Government; I know that we are not perfect. I know 
equally well that no other Government is going to be more perfect. I know that if we make 
mistakes it is because we are human beings. Whenever any point of corruption has been 
shown up it has been gone into and people have been punished. It is not a matter, it is not 
something which always comes in the open but nevertheless it is something that is being 
done all the time. Everything that has come to my notice has immediately been enquired 


* Responding to Shri A.P. Chatterjee’s remark, “That is irrelevant e 


523 


into. Sometimes it takes time because many people have to be consulted and papers have 
[0 wove from one place to another and so on and so forth. But never has anything like 
this heen hidden. Therefore I want to repeat that in this matter, as in any other matter, we 
shall certainly take all steps which havc to be taken. Sir, it was on the 4th of August, you 
will remember, that I came to you accompanied by two other Ministers to inform you of 
our decision to set up this Committee of Enquiry. It was long ago but for some reason we 
were advised that we should not announce it publicly. Therefore there was delay in the 
announcement. It was I think—I do not have the exact date—on the 12th August that the 
Minister of Iron and Steel wrote to the Chairman of the Public Accounts Committee 
informing him of this decision. This Committee is जा complete accordance with the 
recommendation of the P.A.C. I should like to announce, Sir, the membership of the 
Committee. It will consist of as Chairman, Shri A.K. Sircar, ex—Chief Justice of India, 
Shri V.S. Hejmadi, former Chairman of the U.P.S.C., Shn P.C. Padhi, former Chairman of 
the Central Board of Revenue and a former Deputy Comptroller and Auditor General. Now 
under the Commissions of Inquiry Act we can confer upon this Committee all the powers 
that the Committee may require in order to make a full and complete investigation into all 
the transactions referred to in the Report of the P.A.C. I should like to assure the House 
that we on this side are as anxious as those sitting opposite to have a thorough probe into 
the action of everyone who has committed any default or any irregularity and this 
Committee will be able effectively to carry out this probe. 


Since I am on my feet I would like to add just one other point about officials. It has 
been a custom, Sir, that the names of officials will not be taken on the floor of the House 
because they are not here to defend themselves. As with Ministers or anybody else or with 
officials, if they are guilty, if anything comes up against them, an enquiry will certainly 
be made and if they are guilty they will be punished but to create this kind of atmosphere, 
I must submit, Sir, has created uncertainty in the Government. It creates hesitancy in taking 
decisions and it does slow down the whole business of Government. Some hon. Members 
were surprised at the disposal of a file in 48 hours. I might inform them—though I am 
naturally not able to speak for every Minister—that the files in my Department are cleared 
within 24 hours with rare exceptions. So, Sir, we want to certainly maiutain that. I think 
Our administrative service has a high reputation here and abroad and it is comparable to 
the administration of any country. Therefore while we should not condone any wrong 
doing—I have repeated this several times and I hope there will be no misgiving on this 
point—at the same time I must appeal to all concerned that they should not in any way do 
anything which will reduce the efficiency and the efficacy of the services or demoralise 
them 1n any way. 


2K ko ae ak मं eke कं 
I am sorry that some may be inefficient; some may have other faults but certainly a 
general charge cannot be levelled against the whole service* and I hope that in the interests 


of efficiency and good Government we will keep these matters in view when we make 
such allegations. 


* Replying to Shri A.P. Chatterjee’s comment, “If they have any efficiency”. 


Privy Purses and Privileges of Former Rulers* 


Sir I beg to move : 
“That the Bill further to amend the Constitution of India, be taken into consideration.” 


Sir, this is a historic Bill, for, it represents an important step in the further 
democratisation of our society. 


Naturally, our minds go back to our freedom struggle. One objective of that struggle 
was to free ourselves from foreign domination. The other which was no less important 
was to bring about an egalitarian society in which social divisions and disparities would 
be abolished. 


We a मं मंध् ic Bs मेष मंध ak 


A special characteristic of our freedom movement was that it recognised no class 
distinction and sought to protect no privileges. Some leaders of the movement were 
intellectual giants ; yet all worked together as political equals. We have not been able to 
establish a society of complete equality, but we can claim that we are still engaged in this 
mighty endeavour. 


The Bill has to be viewed against this background. It represents the momentum of social 
change in our country. I should like to assure the princes that there is no animus in it against 
any individuals. The manner in which we propose to bring about this important change is 
in keeping with our democratic tradition of achieving far-reaching and even revolutionary 
changes peacefully, through consultation, through debate and through parliamentary 
approval. 


The initiative for the integration of the country came from the people’s leaders, leaders 
of our democratic moment and an important part of this was the heroic struggle of the 
States’ people. This is not to say that we minimise the cooperation given by the rulers and 
their constructive role in the unification of the country soon after the achievement of 
Independence. They have contributed to the political, social and cultural life of the 
community. Many former rulers are held in highesteem by the people of the areas over 
which they once ruled, and some have been elected to this House by them. 


a he ak HK 7 


* While moving the Constitution (Twenty-fourth Amendment) Bill, 1970 for consideration of Lok Sabha, LS. Deb., 
1 and 2 September, 1970, cc. 261-64 & 287-93. The Bill, as passed by the Lok Sabha, was rejected by the Rajya 


Sabha on 5 September , 1970. 


525 


FRC ERAN tea a NORRIE SY EAR 5:0::: 
pe ५5 
"ete NSA कं 
रा Se ed «के Ee a ee eee 


AL ORM 
Se 


५६, 
: 
1 eR थे er. i 
ae etre amet” oy fe की 1, 
ONS ba UO Si DARN शा a oni ait bt Canc it Math oon one ४7222 foe Beet 


_This public regard, I am confident, will not be diminished in any manner. Indeed, if I 
may say SO, it will be considerably enhanced, if at this time, the rulers cooperate with the 
Government in doing away with certain institutions which are not in harmony with a society 
striving for equality and social justice. | 


The present Bill seeks to omit articles 291, 362 and clause 22 of article 366. The 
intention of Government is to discontinue the privy purses, abolish or restrict the privileges 
and abolish the concept of rulership. 


In a letter which I wrote to the rulers, I had categorically stated that the amending Bill 
had been introduced in Parliament and would come up for consideration and passage in 
the current session, and I had told them that there was no intention to cause hardship to 
them or to injure their self-respect and that the Government would make some transitional 
arrangements. 


ae aK ae ae 2 ae a 2k भर 


The transitional arrangements have not yet been worked out in detail. The Government’s 
broad approach was indicated. I mentioned the suggestion that the actual payment of 
transitional allowances to be made to each ruler should be based on a multiple which would 
be higher for those with lower purses and lower for those with higher purses. The total 
payment would be such as would help the rulers to adjust to changed circumstances. I had 
also said that the Government was ready to further discuss the details of the scheme with 
the rulers. 


Some Members may question such consultations. Others may advocate that nothing 


should be given. But this is not our way. The President himself had mentioned the. 


Government’s intention to give transitional allowances. For these past six months, I had 
hoped that without prejudice to our stand to abolish privy purses and privileges, it would 
be possible to reach some agreements. It is a matter of regret that this attempt on our part 
appears to have been misinterpreted. 


However even now I sincerely hope that wiser counsels will prevail. 


Some princes and their friends have claimed that the Bill which I am placing before 
this House is repugnant to morality. I can only say that it would be unthinkable for me to 
come before this august House, which represents the constituted will of our people, to ask 
them to enact something which 1s not in conformity with the precepts of morality. 


History is replete with instances of customs, practices and enactments which were 
regarded as sacrosancts in one age and inhuman in the next. All the great reformers of our 
country have fought against customs and practices which were unjust and which perpetuate 
inequality but which earlier had been regarded as justified. I am convinced that while there 
exists such poverty and inequality in our country, there can be no immorality involved in 
wanting and working to end them. 


The continuance of hereditary titles, customary rights, special privileges and privy 
purses without any relatable functions and responsibilities is incompatible with our 
democratic Constitution, the spirit of the times and the demand of changed circumstances. 


526 


Sateen se etre 
ONES 


SER 


In the 20 years since the privy purse settlements were made, many things have changed. 
Many hereditary rights and unearned incomes have been restricted. We have done away 
with a series of privileges and vested interests. In Parliament and in the State Assemblies, 
we have adopted laws to check the concentration of economic power, both rural and 
industrial. All this was done through open discussion and parliamentary debate. Changes 
do bring difficulty and necessitate adjustments, but they are inevitable. Historical forces 
are irreversible. The choice is clear. Either we bring about change peacefully and with 
consent or changes will come in a manner which, I am sure, this Parliament and this country 
would not like. 


ate a a ek ae a मं 


The legislative measure before the House is a Constitution Amendment Bill. It will 
have to be passed by the requisite majority. It will be for the House, irrespective of party 
affiliations, to show a sense of history and to consider whether a princely order with 
attendant rights and privileges should continue indefinitely in a society striving for equality 
and social justice... 


मर अर मंद जद मंद मंद ae ae a 


*Mr. Speaker, Sir, it is not surprising that this Bill should have received such wide 
support from different sections of the House. It is not surprising also that two of the 
Opposition parties should oppose the Bill so vehemently. 


One of the speeches was a masterpiece of beautiful packaging, of beautiful words, with 
no substance; nor was the speech of the Maharaja of Dhrangadhra surprising. He was born 
and brought up in a particular millieu. He and his friends are personally involved. He has 
his point of view, which he has always expressed openly and in the most chaste English. 
He spoke of the reference to the Supreme Court. But, since this is one of the amendments, 
I shall deal with the amendments, when we take them up. 


But, there is another party of my hon. friends opposite. It is difficult to know what to 
say about them. I have long since stopped being surprised by cither their words or their 
deeds. 


ak ok अर a 2k ea मंद 


Sir, Government has examined all the constitutional and legal implications of this Bill. 
We have taken legal advice on the question of referring this matter to the Supreme Court. 
But the advice of the highest law officers was that the proposed Bill is constitutional and 
legally in order, and that it is therefore not necessary to refer the matter to the Supreme 


Court. 


Now, as I was saying, I have long since stopped being surprised by what some of my 
hon. friends opposite say and do. 


* LS. Deb., 2 September, 1970. 


527 


- When Shn Morarji Desai rose to lead the opposition to the Bill, the thought came to 
my nfind, of the Kauravas setting up Bhishma Pitamah to plead their case. It was his lot 
to give a moral facade to an indefensible case. 


Shri Morarji gave rather a one-sided view. Other Members have also mentioned that 
negotiations with the princes did help us at that time. But, let us not forget that had the 
princes taken any other course at that time, the reaction of the people would have been 
very different and I doubt if we would have been able to control the situation. Maybe, it 
would have created difficulties; I am sure it would have. But, perhaps, 1 would have solved 
some problems also. 


Some point was made about Shn Chavanji having suddenly thought of the abolition 
of the Privy Purses as a political device. I do not remember now, but I do not think that 
Shn Y.B. Chavan was a member of the Working Committee in 1953 which was when this 
matter was first taken up there. I myself became a member in 1955, and there was hardly 
a year when this matter was not taken up and discussed. And year by year, almost month 
by month, the pressure from our party was growing that something should be done about 
it, long before the 1967 elections. So, either people do not know this or knowing it they 
deliberately want to distort facts. 


Many points of view have been put forward, which are not in correct perspective. It 
was said, for instance, that the agreements and compacts with the rulers had been entered 
into before the Constitution came into force and that the Constitution only put a seal on 
those agreements, and, therefore, although the constitutional sanctions may go but the 
agreements would continue in force. Now, this view is based on a misunderstanding of 
the nature of these agreements. They are not contracts between individuals. They were 
political settlements which were followed by the political acts of the President in 
recognising the rulers under the Constitution. Some hon. Members said that the President 
has the right to recognise or derecognise a ruler and that the merger agreements are thus 
dependent on the continued recognition by the President of a ruler as a ruler. It was 
suggested that the Government could have discontinued the privy purse without involving 
the Parliament in a Constitutional Aniendment Bill. From the nature of the merger 
agreements, it was possible for the Government to do so. However, Government preferred 
to bring about a change by the democratic method of discussion and ascertaining the 
collective will of the people as reflected in this House. Government’s willingness to subject 
this proposal to a vote by the special majority required for a constitutional amendment 
reflects their desire to abide by the highest conventions of democratic processes. 


Another criticism was of the omission of articles 291 and 362 and clause 22 of 366 
and the retention of article 363. I would not deal with this matter because I think Shri 
Y.B. Chavan has dealt with it. It must be recognised that such settlement must be subject 
to the final arbitration of Parliament and not the courts and that is why the Constitution- 
makers decided to keep the agreements out of the courts. 


A point was also made that the continuance of article 363 would deny the rulers even 
the ordinary night of a citizen. Surely this is a travesty of facts. The rulers have and will 


528 


continue to have the same rights and remedies as ordinary citizens. Their recourse to courts 
is barred only in respect of the special privileges they acquired through a political 
settlement. Today, totally unjustified political motives have been imputed to this Bill. We 
have been charged that the decision to abolish privy purses and privileges was because 
some rulers had contested the elections against the Congress. It has also been said that we 
planned 10 take time to strike political bargains with the rulers in settling the transitional 
arrangements. All this will come up in the Bill for the transitional allowances will thus 
come before Parliament, and hon. Members will have ample opportunity to speak about it 
in the House. The actual payment is supposed to be based on a multiple of the privy purse. 
I am sure they will realise that in such a principle which we accepted there will be no 
scope whatsoever for individual bargaining. 


Now, much was said about heritage. I am also proud of the Indian heritage. But as | 
said yesterday, we do not live in that heritage. Times change, everything in life is changing 
every minute, every second of the day, and we cannot keep old, outmoded methods or 
customs which have no place in contemporary life. Shortly before I got up, we were offered 
a high level speech, but I am afraid much of it did not strike me as high-level. If the hon. 
Member* will forgive me, | thought that much of his speech was full of the diversionary 
tactics which he was attributing to the Government, because all the various items were 
listed which have no relevance whatsoever to the matter in hand today... 


We were told of special ‘planes being despatched to Kerala.’ Before also, we have 
heard the story of ‘planes going to other States for different purposes.’ I have still not 
been able to gather the information where the ‘planes came from, who flew them, where 
they disappeared after their flights, and what problems were solved by their use.’ 


I also believe that all Members should vote as they think is right to do. I wish that the 
princes and some of their friends had also stuck to that belief and had not tried to put 
pressures on some of our Members (/nterruptions). It is not our wish to do that. 


Much was suid about the people who lived in the princely States. You will have noticed 
that the most bitter speeches that were made yesterday and today were those by individuals 
who had the chance or ill-fortune to live in princely States. It is those people who feel 
more bitter about the whole question. We, who have not had that experience can afford to 
be generous. But even though I did not live in a princely State, I did have occasion to 
attend some of the meetings of the States’ People’s Conference. I know the deep feelings, 
the hurt, the atrocities and humiliations which were piled on our political workers in those 
days. We do not want to start recrimination against anybody. If there is to be such a debate, 
certainly we can have plenty to say. But I do not want to say it ; this is not the occasion. 
In fact, I have gone out of my way to ignore that side of it and have tried to see the brighter 
side of the picture. I think that the least that could have been done was for the princes 
also to try not to hark back to the times about which much can be said on the other side as 


well. 


* Shri Morarji Desai. 


५ oS a ६2०५ MO erases tO aw, rae 
Ue Po SOS 
z ४०००६. SION i OK: S chee 
Cee प्र 


; 20240: et : 
RK Res IER I 
“ESHER TR ay en BS 


529 


40४४ 


SOW 


ve ve a WN 
My, 0 
५ 
atatatn’ as “a 
VON’ 
ete 1) 
न os ९७० 
#१९३०० Sete 
०१०९०१०)०१५, 
(5 
.._ : 
nae 
4 a 
A - 
- . . 
oe * 
iy ‘a 
i ‘ 
a 
bey है 
जम ह280॥ . 
2812: . 
0.५3 
४००० 
el, 
Sans 
re, 
2025 


nd 
17 
a 
OE 


02 
मल ER 


५7२2 1) 
PERSE 
ton 


. Now, when we talk of heritage, does it mean we want the old feudal customs to 
confinue, the old feudal methods of functioning ? Have they been able to continue anywhere 
in the world ? They have not. We do not want them. The people do not want them and 
they will see that they go. It 1s where there is the least education that you find there is 
most consideration for such old customs and so on. As education spreads, as consciousness 
of their rights awakens amongst the people, there is revolt against injustice and inequality. 
I do not think it is a thing to be proud of that you do not have such a revolt in your States, 
because it shows that the people there are not politically conscious; it shows the people 
do not know what their rights are. 


we ae ak me a a We मंद ae 


There has also been talk about justice. Justice is a much misused word. I have asked 
before in this House : Justice for whom ? We do not want to do injustice even to one person 
or to two people or 200 and odd people. But as against them, there is the question of justice 
to some millions of people. I am not saying that the removal of the privy purses is going 
to solve the poverty problem or the unemployment problem or any of the other problems. 
We have not said it at any time, nor am I saying it now. But it 1s a step in a particular 
direction in which the country wants to go, and the country will go in spite of anybody. If 
we oppose the country in that, we also will be swept aside, I have no doubt about it. 


The hon. Member said much about political moves and so on, but what seems strange 
to us is that this is the second occasion when we have heard him applauding the speech 
made by the hon. Member of the CPI (Marxist). So, it is evident that politics make strange 
bed-fellows. Our views are perfectly clear. It is not we who say that merely because a 
person is a Communist, he is bad. We are against certain policies, we are against certain 
methods, we are against violence. But here is somebody who does believe that the mere 
word Communist is an abuse, and then he thinks it is not strange at all that he should get 
together with one of the extreme Communist parties, whether on this issue or the issue of 
Kerala elections or some other issue. I do not mind, I am just pointing this out. It is for 
him to decide whom he wants to be with. As I said, the question is not whether individual 
Princes were good or bad, whether today they are good or bad. We are not concerned with 
their individual qualities, but it is a principle which is in question today. The members of 
the princely order look at the question from one angle, I must confess that we look at it 
from the opposite angle. 


The Constitution-makers could not fore see all eventualities. We have had amendments 
to the Constitution before. We must make the Constitution such as will serve the aspirations 
and the needs of the Indian people. The only thing that matters is what is necessary for 
the welfare of the people of India. The hon. Member knows that it 18 not just our party 
which has been anxious to bring this Bill here. Many other parties, who are not 
Communists, have been and, are supporting 1. 


As I said earlier, I think this is an important step. It is very strange to hear that some 
people feel that this is a step to destroy them. On the contrary, I think this 1s a step that 
could strengthen them because now they can make a life on their feet, not on the basis of 


what their forefathers did, not on the basis of money or something which is coming from 
the Government, but they can make a new life for themselves and, as I said, what sort of 
life it is, what sort of new heritage they give to future India is today in their hands. 


The step we are going to take is an important step. In our segmented society, broken 
up by caste and creed, fragmented further by the concepts of hierarchy and graded 
privileges, a step, however small, which is directed towards the dissolution of vertical and 
horizontal division 18 a step in the direction of the democratisation of that society. 


Personally, I feel that this is of far greater significance than all the arid controversies 
grabed in high sounding phrases. That is why I was pained to hear a doctrine propounded 
here so violently in contradiction to some of the basic and essential tenets of India’s national 
movement. The basic tenet of our national movement lay in asserting the sovereignty of 
the people of India, both of British India and of the Indian States as against the sovereignty 
of the imperial crown and that of the princely order. The assertion of this principle amounts 
to fighting against the system and not against an individual. 


So, in advocating the adoption of this Bill, there is no animus against individuals for 
we are fighting for a principle; we are fighting to take the country in a particular direction. 


As I said yesterday, the Bill is of historic significance. Let us walk in step with the 
times; let the value of men not be judged by their wealth or rank. 


With these words, I commend the motion to this august House. I hope that the other 
motions will be rejected. (/nterruptions). | 


aie 24 ic 6 2 a मंप मर मर 


*Mr. Chairman, I rise to move : “That the Bill forther to amend the constitution of 
India, as passed by the Lok Sabha, be taken into consideration....” 


fc a 3 2 a a 2K aK 


My task today is considerably lightened because of the Resolution passed unanimously 
by this august House, not the other House, but by this august House on the 19th.... 


a अर मं ae a मर mk a और 


It was passed on the 19th December, 1969 asking the Government to take all legal 
and other steps for the abolition of the privy purses and privileges of the ex-Rulers. I was 
also helped by a speech by another Member of Shri Mishra’s party on that occasion or on 
another occasion in this House urging us to hurry up and bring for ward this Bill. I think 
the word used was ‘forthwith’. This Bill gives concrete shape to those sentiments. It seeks 
to omit articles 291, 362 and clause (22) of article 366. The intention of the Government 
is to discontinue the privy purses, abolish or restrict the privileges and abolish the concept 


* While moving the Constitution (Twenty-fourth Amendment) Bill, 1970 for consideration of Rajya Sabha and replying 
to the debate on it, R.S. Deb., 4 & 5 September, 1970, cc. 34, 44—46 & 87-98. 


531 


of rulership. This Bill provides an opportunity to hon. Members to redeem their own 
Resolution. In the context of that Resolution, anything one says would be redundant and 
would be like preaching to the converted. I shall, therefore, desist from this superfluous 
exercise. The House knows the feelings of our people and their urge for greater equality. 
The compulsions of social change and the democratisation of our society were admirably 
expressed by many hon. Members of this House on the previous occasion and the Bill 
before you today echoes the feelings which were then expressed. We are convinced that 
the indefinite continuance of hereditary titles and customary nights, special privileges and 
privy purses, without any relatable functions and responsibilities, are incompatible with 
the spirit of the modern age, the demands of the changed circumstances and the political 
and social evolution of the life of the nation along democratic lines. In the conduct of human 
affairs, there are always two broad points of view. There is the point of view which fixes 
on the past and on the desire to conserve all that is old and familiar. The other point of 
view recognizes what is good in the past heritage and tradition of a nation but refuses to 
be imprisoned or shackled down by them. It seeks to synthesise the best of the old with 
all that is worthwhile and enduring in the new. It recognizes that history 1s irreversible 
and change inevitable. Ours is the second point of view and judging by the wide measure 
of support which the Bill has received in the other House, this view is happily shared by a 
majority of political parties and the overwhelming majority of the people of our great 
country. It has been our way to try to do things in a manner which 1s the least abrasive. 
Hence I tried to talk with the Princes to find a solution which without in any way 
compromising our stand or our commitment to our party and our people would help to 
smoothen the path of change. Unfortunately the sincere effort on our part was misinterpreted 
and nothing came of It. 


It is not our intention to cause hardship to the ex-rulers or to injure their self-respect. 
In keeping with this point of view the rulers were told and the President said in his opening 
Address to Parliament that Government would make transitional arrangements. Although 
these have not yet been worked out in detail, our broad approach is that the payment of 
these allowances to each ruler should be based on a multiple which would be higher for 
those receiving lower purse and lower for those receiving higher purses. The total payment 
would be such as to enable the rulers to adjust to the changed circumstances. 


This Bill is the culmination of an important aspect of our freedom struggle. This House 
showed a sense of history in its resolution of the !9th December, 1969. I now invite 1 to 
the occasion and to pass the Bill with a tremendous mayjonity, if not unanimity. 


ek मै मर अर मंद मंध् अं 


Mr. Chairman, Sir, my reply should have been an opportunity to answer the major 
arguments raised in the debate but in spite of what my hon. fnend opposite, Shri S.N. 
Mishra, has so graciously, described as my minute observation. I was not able to discern 
any such major argument put forward against this Bill. We found the venerable Member, 
Shri Ruthnaswamy of the Swatantra Party teaching us what socialism is. We found Shri 
Babubhai Chinai trying to interpret my own father to me. I think hon. Members here and 
the people of Bombay know how ardent a follower he was of my father and my father’s 
policies. (/nterruptions) 


ee 5 


iy 22222: 2222 72 ४ (Tit fa VAM AL ep 2222 MAP EL eS 
2202 Borne : ste 7 1222 42222: Be ones Agee His IES 2४:22 2222 
महक + Si 222: Ra Me a 4 . व ee op 
‘ ८222 222 ee 22 Coe 4228 2८: 2222 ites BOE 22222: 272 272 eT 22277 2८०: 27 2/0:77727:07 70:78 
To SSL eee : 1 ORL LOOSAL GLEE GLE DMG D LE SLO Ge SLL I LEME EE ER LEU THEOL एड ne ८2528: 7000 60:20%%: ५८ 


532 हु 


When one takes Shri Mishra’s wayward rhetoric seriously, what his Party said to-day 
is such a clear and blatant repudiation of what they have so openly professed only yesterday 
that I wonder whether they have elevated pointlessness into a programme. We have heard 
long quotations from Sardar Vallabhai Patel. Those who have quoted them, could have 
used the same quotations a little earlier, perhaps in the AICC meeting. It is quite some 
time since this resolution was passed in Delhi. It is true that when it was passed, I was not 
present. It is true that I was a little disturbed at its passing, not because I was against the 
resolution but, as Mr. Mishra would say, at the manner of its passing. 


मै मंद मर a ek 2 ea 


*Those who have since opposed it, they had many an opportunity to reopen the issue 
in the Working Committee and in many subsequent Sessions of the AICC or the plenary 
Sessions of the Congress. But it was not brought before these bodies for a very good reason, 
because they knew that, if they brought it back, it would be passed again and over again. 
So now, just because there is a division in the party, to go back on their own commitments— 
may be somebody’s version of honesty or integrity, but I do not think that is the way the 
world or the people of India will look at this matter. Now somebody else also said that the 
wisdom of the Agreements was not questioned at that time. My hon. friend, I think it was 
Goswamiji, said that he himself questioned it. I certainly know that I questioned it, and 
the States’ Peoples’ Conference in every State had questioned these Agreements. I know 
that in every province there were many who questioned the wisdom of these Agreements 
and I can say that I was amongst those who questioned these Agreements. And most of 
the Youth Congress at that time had questioned this as indeed we questioned many other 
things that happened. I had also questioned in manner in which we kept the administrative 
system as I do question it even now. 


ae ae oie ak ec मर Me ak मर 


There was a body of the Congress Youth of which I was a member. Now, whether we 
had one name or they had something else added to the name, I do not know. But we 
certainly regarded ourselves as Congress youths. Whether there was a registered name or 
not is not the point here. The point is that the younger people of the Congress did exist, 
that they did meet in a separate body, apart from the AICC and other Congress bodies, 
and that I was a member of those groups. Surely 1 know of the meetings I attended. 


afc ae मर मंद मंद afc af ak 


So these things were questioned then, but now we know that many more people question 
them, as we can see; at that moment we also wondered that perhaps this is the right way, 
we might think differently, the elders are proposing something. They know better. They 
have more experience. They think this is the right thing to do. 


Having once expressed our views, we did not make an issue of it, or even broadcast 


it. But now that we look back at it, what is the view, what is the view not only of those of 
2 2 aan a gn 
* Replying to the debate in Rajya Sabha, 5 September. 1970, cc. 87-98. 


§33 


कफ बा 51 ne बा दर हर 
RAE SR 


220 TERN VN AS कारन शत ND NUS Sic : ०1८2०: 
re Oona a hee as A ४ PO ae Oe 
‘ Sines Se renee SSG 85 
We < Son eg orc tee 
oS SEER Ten SSE Ree OR 2232 


Sears 


O Je 
12222 Seat te शी चीन | Canon 
CaN SERRA aren EPEC png DRED ESE : 
SS a acs Es av ABS 02002 0022 1207: SERED 


ee 


ae 
aah 
% ॥ 
SESS ERS 
0०% se ay . 


us who were involved then but of the many people who were not asked for their opinion 

‘orawho were not involved in these questions then ? This is the question before us today, 
and it concerns the nation. Well it is the nation’s desire that as things have changed we 
must change with the times. My hon. friend, Shri Rajnasgin, never loses an opportunity to 
snipe at me... but this time I will say that there is some truth in what he said. And it is not 
he who is sagiing it; I have said it from the public platform on almost every occasion in 
every 0००1८, eeting since our Bangalore Session. I have said that it is not I who am 
showing a new light to the people, it is the people who are showing a new light to us. I 
have said on countless occasions that the tme has come when we must follow the people’s 
light. But why is it that we have this great division in our party ? Sir, I think everybody 
knows why it really happened. Everybody know set the seeds of it were there from the 
time of these Agreements and before. Everybody knows that there was a division in the 
thinking of the party. There was one section which wanted socialism, which wanted major 
changes, and there was another section which thought that independent India could grow 
and prosper within the old structure. There was that division and it does not matter who 
gets up and says that it was not there. They cannot change the fact. This is what came to 
the fore in our party, in our times. It does not mean that we can do some magic or that by 
using the word ‘socialism’ we think we can change everything. We know we cannot and 
we have said so, but we do know that we have made a beginning. We do know that we 
have taken steps which will make it difficult for anybody to reverse the trend, no matter 
who runs the Governnf€nt tomorrow; and that is my concern. It is not my concern that I 
shall stay in power or be the Prime Minister. Had that been my concern, I would not have 
taken the number of risks which I have taken. But why am I taking these 75105? It is because 
I know that each one of these steps, once taken, will be irreversible, no matter what happens 
and that is the important fact. Nobody is going to change what we do here. 


a ok ak ae मर a a a ak 


I was saying that these steps have taken the country in a particular direction and this 
direction cannot now be reversed. I will give one small example of this. Our hon. Member 
from the Ja® Sangh, even he, who is opposed toghe whole idea behind the things which 
we want to do, the direction in which we want to take the country, had to say here ; We 
have no fascination for the princely order. He could not get up here and say : I support the 
princely order. : 


Our good friends, the syndicate group, could not, whether they are supporting the 
abolition or not, get up and say : We will oppose the Bill because we are opposed to the 
concept of the Bill. They do not have that courage. I would have admired them if, wanting 
to go back on their policy, they had got up and said : We oppose this Bill. But ‘No’. They 
want to please the Princes and they want to please the people. You can fool some people 
for some time gue not all the people all the time. 


eC Or. mee के 


534 


As far as I am concerned, I have only one reply, that I am prepared for the people to 
judge all these years*. When the people say ‘we do not want you,’ I will very gladly 
resign... 


a ah मर a aK भैर a ae मर 


We are prepared to stand in front of the people with all our programmes, all our deeds. 
My friend, Shri Niren Ghosh, said, as if he was discovering some great dark buried secret, 
that transitional allowances are being made. Did not the President make this announcement 
in his opening Address to Parliament ? Did-I not write openly to the Princes ? Did I not 
say it in the other House... 


6 kak ok ak मं मंद मर 


Mr. Niren Ghosh, I was listening very carefully.** You said you were uncovering secrets 
and all sorts of things. That is why I am saying that we have done nothing in secret. We 
have done nothing in such a manner. Everything we have done and everything we stand 
for is out in the open before the people of India and before this House. In this connection, 
I would also like to say that again my friend, Shri Mishra, said : What was the necessity 
of brmging this to the House ? The Government could have done it on its own. Certainly 
the Government could and the Government still can do it on their own. There is nothing 
to stop it. Why ? Because we think in a democracy it is better to bring this to Parliament. 
We think that it is better to see that the majority is behind us. This we have now proved to 
the country... 


me > मं: aK मंद 2 ae अर और 


I will assure Mr. Bhupesh Gupta that if he is referring to me, I have not lost my temper 
now for many many years, and 1 have no intention of losing it again. Certainly the sort of 
remarks that were made from that side are not worth anybody’s losing his temper. 


Now the question was what would happen if the Princes had not signed the agreements. 
Mr. Chairman, is there any doubt about it as to what would have happened ? In free India 
if they had not signed the agreement, would not the Government have used all its strength 
to do something about it, and would not all the people have risen to do something about it 
? Certainly there would have been bloodshed, certainly there would have been disturbance. 
But nobody can say that the Princely States would have continued as they were continuing. 
I was surprised to hear the use of the word ‘sovereignty’ in this connection. What does it 
mean ? Can anybody in this House say that they were sovereign under the British ? What 
right did they assert except the right of making money ? Did one of them go against the 
British Government in the smallest possible thing ? How can they use this word in this 
connection and demean the word ‘sovereignty’ ? Let us see the reality of the situation. 
Are we living in 1970 or are we living in 1870 ? Some things have happened in the world, 
not only in our country but all over the world. I am not concerned with the quality of the 


* Responding to Shri Sundar Singh Bhandari’s comment, ‘That applies to you also”. 
** Replying to Shri Niren Ghosh’s observation, “I said this House passed a Resolution barring that”. 


535 


Princes. I know that like all men some were good, some indifferent, some have even been 
bad, some have neglected their people, some have done good work for their States like 
education, health measures, roads, parks and so on. I am not-against the Princes at all. | 
want to assure the hon. House that this Bill is not directed against the Princes individually 
or even as a group. This Bill is against a system. We are against the feudal system. It is 
not just something that has come to our heads today. This was the whole point of the 
freedom struggle. The question was not merely that we drive out the foreign Government. 
It was that within the country all such feudal structures should be changed. If we have not 
been able to change them, I certainly say it was our mistake. I have no doubt about it. It 
was our mistake that for so many years we have not been able to change the feudal structure. 
It is not only a question of Princes. That happens very much lower down the line also. 
That is why there is that treatment of the Hariyans. It is the same attitude of mind that one 
man is superior to another man. Why ? Because he has money, he has rank. Do we subscribe 
to this theory ? 


af ah ae a. ek aK 


The ICS people will also be dealt with*. It does not mean that if you have not dealt 
with all you cannot deal with one thing. This is a new argument that we have heard today 
from some of the gentlemen opposite. If you cannot do the journey in one leap, then you 
cannot do the first phase also. Therefore, before there was the aeroplane nobody would 
have gone to any place. As I was saying, I hold no animus against the Princes. That is 
why we tried to talk to them. As I made it clear in my opening remarks I was not going 
against our commitment to this House or our commitment to our party. But we did feel 
that if we could come to some agreement, it would smoothen the path, it would make the 
change easier. Perhaps they thought that by prolonging the agony of negotiations, the Bill 
would be postponed, although all along I had said that I wanted to talk, but we were 
committed to bringing the Bill in this session. This was not kept in doubt at any meeting, 
in any session. I have no hesitation in saying that if this matter has come in this way, it is 
because of those amongst the Princes who are known as the hardliners, those who wanted 
to hang on more tightly to whatever they had. Had those who were willing to talk been 
given their way, some understanding could have been reached in a much more graceful 
manner. This 1s not a new thing. 


Sir, everywhere when something new happens, the people concemed try to hang on to 
the old. But nowhere have they been able to resist the new. These Princes are very high- 
up people. The motor car came in England. Perhaps you all remember that those people 
who were concerned with horses and horse carriages and everything that had to do with 
them, they said that the motor car should not be allowed; they were in danger. Many people 
helped them; the British M.Ps. helped them. But the wise amongst those people said, “No. 
This thing is here. We cannot stop the car. Let us learn something about it. Let us become 
mechanics. Let us become drivers”. They took that path and they suddenly got new 
opportunities, new jobs and they became high in the new hierarchy. And those who said 


* Replying to a Member’s remark, ‘What about the ICS 7" 


536 


they will have only the horse-carriages, they were, little by little, made jobless and finished 
off. This is the way of the world. It is not the way that I am advocating. It is the way of 
the world since time immemorial. The old has to give way to the new. And only those 
amongst the old who adapt themselves and find a place amongst them. 


It is not I or any group who is removing them. These are the forces of history that 
march and make these changes.... 


ak मंद ak 2 ah मे मंप्कं मं 


Pushpabenji, in her usual quiet and effective manner, suggested that there should not 
be only one-sided criticism, that there should be a balanced appraisal. Now I wish that 
she could have given that advice to some of her party Members who were speaking about 
us. 


Incidentally, Sir, 1 was deeply shocked to hear from opposite—I do not remember which 
party—that the Princes are being brought down to the level of “‘ordinary citizens”. Sir, I 
might say that nobody should use a phrase like this. What can be better than being a citizen 
of this great country of India ? Does a person become greater because he is called His 
Highness ? This is the mentality that we are fighting and which we will continue to fight 
while it exists in any corner of India. And this is what we endeavoured to fight during the 
freedom struggle. 


Now I come to Shri Rajnarain’s amendment, the S.S.P. amendment. Several other 
Members have also urged that no compensation should be paid to the Princes on the 
abolition of their privy purses. Now, it is our opinion and the legal opinion also that the 
privy purse is not a property and thus there 18 no question whatsoever of paying any 
compensation. However, there is the human aspect. I do not think it would be fair to put 
an abrupt end to the payment of the privy purses without providing some means for the 
families and the dependents of these former Rulers to adjust to this new situation. And it 
is in that light that the transitional allowances should be viewed. The same holds good for 
the date, i.e. the 15th October, when it comes into effect. 


Now, Sir, as I said earlier, this Bill is not in any way against the Princes. On the other 
hand, I would very humbly suggest that I think it is in their interest because in a free country, 
I think, it is the due of every boy and every girl, of every man and every woman, to stand 
on his or her feet, by his own or her own merit. This is the great opportunity which we are 
giving to them. They are not poor people, nor do we wish to make them poor. They have 
great advantage of having had the best of education. We want that education to be used 
for the welfare of their own people and their own country. I think, Sir, as I have said on 
an earlier occasion, that there can be no greater gift to anybody than this, that they use 
their energy, their wealth, their talents for the good of the nation. This is our intention in 
this Bill. So, I hope that those hon. Members who are making an excuse that merely because 
they do not like the manner of it, therefore, they would rather defeat and wipe off the whole 
Bill, will reconsider the matter and will vote at least for this first phase. About what they 
do in the next phase, of course, it will be debated all over again. Now, one point which 


$37 


was constantly made was that we have delayed bringing the question of allowances here 
fhegely because we want to do sometiiing underhand. Sir, this is very unworthy of the 
Members who have made such a remark, because whatever allowances are made, the matter 
will come before the House and again it will be before the hon. Members to accept or to 
reject, and there will no doubt be a full and frank debate. I hope that the hon. Members 
from the S.S.P. will, therefore, withdraw their amendments, since I have made it clear that 
it is not compensation which we are giving. Now, Sir, it was understandable that so many 
of the speeches should be concerned with the past. But, Sir, this Bill is opening one of the 
gates towards a more egalitarian future for our people. Sir, I move that the Bill be taken 
into consideration. 


The Constitution : Not A Static Document* 


.... In the speech which I made when I was introducing this Bill** here I stated clearly 
that we expect obstacles at every step in our march towards progress, towards bringing 
about a better life for our people, towards bringing about greater equality among our people. 
What is astonishing today is not what we might be feeling, but the reaction of those who 
consider themselves the victors, why are they so excited and upset? That is what I am 
wondering. 


ac मं oe a He और He He he 


This is the impression that we get from your speech.*** It is writ large on your face. I 
can see this. The second point is whether we shall send instructions to the States and various 
people. I think that this point is covered by the answer I gave some time ago, so also is 
the point regarding bilateral talks. Both these points have been covered. We have to look 
into all aspects of the judgement and this will take tme. Then there was something said 
about sacrifice. Sir, I think the House itself can judge how seriously this point can be taken. 
When we compare the sacrifices, what does it mean ? The territory belonged to the people. 
Were the people of India slaves of these people ? Were the people of the princely States 
not citizens of India ? What does it mean, that they gave up territory ? 


ae ak ok 2 af ae मै ok 


May be you have that view, but it is not our view at all.**** (interruptions). | am not 
yielding. To equate these people with the lakhs and lakhs of people who sacrificed their 
lives and their all during the freedom movement, I think this is sacrilege and desecration 
of the history of India. 


ae a मर a और ak ae ok मर 


We have already said that so far as this matter is concerned we will take the appropriate 
constitutional measures. 


मैप ak मे tk मे 2k गंध मे 


* Replying to a Calling Attention regarding the situation arising out of the decision of the Supreme Court on the 
Presidential Order de-recognising the rulers, R.S. Deb., 16 December, 1970, cc. 101-116. 
** The Constitution (Twenty-fourth Amendment) Bill. 
*** Responding to Shri S.N. Mishra’s query, “Who is upset ?” 
**** Replying to Shri Lokanath Misra’s remarks, “] did not say that anybody was the slave of another. Was it not a 
sacrifice that they made ?” 


539 


The Consttution is clear and I think we can proceed according to the Constitution but 
tlie Gonstitution, as we have said and as other Members have said on various occasions, 
is not a static thing. The Constitution has been changed in other countries, it has been 
changed in our country too and if it is necessary to change it in the people’s interest certainly 
we should do so and Government will think about it. 


अं गंध कं me a a मं कं के 


The question is : What is the Constitution for ? What are laws for ? Laws are not 
dropped from the heavens; laws are made to make life more orderly for the people who 
live in this country. The Constitution is made so as to have better functioning. Laws are 
made by Parliament. Therefore it is possible to change the laws, it is possible to change 
_the Constitution. This is obvious—democracy must mean the right of the largest number 
of the people. (Interruptions) 


ae he a wee के ai a a 


Whether you talk of the Fundamental Rights or any other right, it does not mean that 
you can suppress the rights of some people for the sake of the rights of some of other 
people. This is evident ॥ democracy. 


(०५४४-८० न ८०४७४: ८ टूर: a Cece eh telat a eel Ieee पद 


a aa ata SEN Ra Rea he SSE ARN NES 


Parliamentary Supremacy“ 


We have all listened with great attention to the speeches which have been made. I am 
sorry that some noise was made from this side. But the speeches also were highly 
provocative. I can understand Mr. Frank Anthony's anxiety and worry. I would only like 
to remind him that this Parliament did exist before the Golak Nath Case took place. This 
Parliament is only trying to restore the position...(/nterruptions) Our party has always stood 
for minority nghts. We have fought for them. 


a aK मर मं: मंद > ae ak भर 


...What I am saying is that there is no need for him to get so excited. These matters 
can be discussed in a calm way. If there is calmness on the other side, there will be calmness 
on this side. I think, 1 is very wrong to bring in the minorities in the manner in which 1 
has been done...(/nterruptions) If the minorities are suffering 1n our country, it is part of 
the larger economic problem. There are poor people amongst minorities and there are rich 
people amongst minorities. We can assure this honourable House that we shall always stand 
for the rights of those who have nobody to speak for them. 


mc 3c अर ie Ke fc मैप नै: > 


**Mr. Deputy-Speaker, Sir. I shall not take much time of the House. Indeed, I would 
not have spoken at all, since all relevant and some irrclevant points have been made in 
the course of this debate which has been except for some aberrations, of a high order, as 
befits the occasion. 


1 would like to support what our hon’ble friend Shri Manoharan has said that today all 
of us remember and miss our bright-spirited collegue, Shri Nath Pai, whose Bill focussed 
our attention on this necessary Constitutional change. | am sure if he had been here. he 
‘would have made an impassioned speech on this subjec’ 


[ am intervening because । fecl deeply and sincerely that this is a special moment. 


In his otherwise brilliant speech, Shri Siddhartha Shuenkar Ray had a dig at non-lawyers. 
Far be it from me to scoff at lawyers, when there are so many distinguished ones in the 


* Participating in the debate during the introduction of the Constitution (Twenty-fourth Amendment) Bill, 1971, 


L.S. Deb., 28 July. 1971, cc. 305-06. 
*” Participating in the debate on the Constitution (Twenty-fourth Amendment) Bill, 1971, LS. Deb., 4 August, 1971, 


cc. 263-71. 


House. The legal profession has given some of the best minds and some of the greatest 
patriets to our country. I myself started life in very legal surroundings. My grandfather 
himself a lawyer of repute, attracted many legal luminaries to our house. But, over the 
years, one heard fewer arguments of jurisprudence and more and more about the problems 
of the people, the reality of the situation in which they found themselves, which was very 
far from the law as seen by lawyers. So, Shri K. Manoharan and I have at least one thing 
in common, which is that neither of us is a lawyer. While he was daring enough to venture 
into the sphere of law, I shall keep aloof from it. But I should like to answer only one 
point which does not strictly come into this debate but which he mentioned, which was 
the question of Centre-State relations and especially a phrase which he used when he said 
that every State must be an equal partner. I should like to assure him that every State is an 
-equal partner. Today, whatever inequality there exists is due to many reasons; it is not due 
to the Centre or the attitude which the Centre takes. In the eyes of the Central Government, 
every State 15 equal and the Centre does its very best to give fair treatment to every single 
State, and we shall continue to do so. Naturally, we are always open to suggestions, and 
we always discuss matters about which a State has any grievance; and this discussion Is a 
continuing one. There is hardly a day when we do not have a visit from a Chief Minister 
or some Ministers or officials from one State or another over some real or not—so-real 
grievance. 


During this debate, it was interesting and educative to listen to our constitutional experts. 
But as a non-constitutional-expert, as a non-lawyer, I must say that 1t seems to me that the 
question at issue is not merely a legal or a constitutional one. The constitutional amendments 
which we have introduced embody and reflect the urges of our people. For some time, 
there has been a deliberate inflation of fears which to me seem to be unreal. A controversy 
has been generated as regards the supremacy of Parliament against the supremacy of the 
Constitution, as if these two were distinct concepts mutually exclusive and even perhaps 
antagonistic. Those who describe the issue in this manner conveniently forget that our 
Constitution was drafted on the fundamental assumption that our people owed unalterable 
allegiance to the principles of democracy. This faith in our people permeates our 
Constitution. 


Several hon. Members have spoken of the confrontation between Parliament and the 
judiciary. There need not be a confrontation, and I think that to create an atmosphere of 
confrontation does not do us much good. I do not think that there is any real confrontation 
either, because each institution has its assigned place and role. We all know that there can 
be no third chamber and that no Constitution can be frozen into a static mould. 


What do we see when we look at the world around us ? It would not take us long to 
discover that many an institution has collapsed, many a Constitution has been scrapped 
because it ceased to be an effective instrument for orderly change. That our Constitution 
and our democratic institutions have survived, when all around us there is a climate of 
tension and violence, is a tribute to the faith of our people in democratic ideals and also to 
the flexibility and responsiveness of our Constitution and our political institutions to the 
urges of our people. 


pin ene 


While introducing this Bill, my colleague Shri H.R. Gokhale spoke of the arguments 
of those who opposed this Bill as being based on fear and nervousness, not on fact. I should 
like to dispel that fear and nervousness in the minds of our minorities in so far as their 
rights are concerned. I believe that protection to them can be guaranteed only by this 
Parliament. Mere constitutional devices cannot give this guarantee. History is replete with 
examples of constitutions being overthrown or thwarted. Therefore, a wider and deeper 
democracy, a wider and deeper commitment to secularism is a more durable guarantee of 
the rights of our minorities. My endeavour has been not to defeat parties but to educate 
the public and strengthen the people so that they themselves will not permit any curtailment 
of their rights. The protection of the rights of the minorities can be ensured only when the 
majority itself is convinced that its well being and progress is linked with a sense of security 
amongst the minority communities. In the ultimate analysis, it is only a sensitive and strong 
public opinion which can give real protection to the minorities. 


The major premise of democracy is the will of the people as expressed through 
Parliament. As Prof. Dandavate said in his excellent speech, if our democracy goes berserk 
and becomes an instrument of oppression, our democracy would have failed and something 
else would have taken its place. If such turbulence were to take place in our country, holding 
the Constitution against the flood waters of right reaction or of violent revolution would 
not stem the tide. 


Sir, Shyamnandan Mishra used a very meaningful phrase : ‘If liberty dies in the hearts 
of men’. The same thing has been said in the Bible : ‘We are the salt of the earth. But if 
the salt has lost its savour, wherewith shall it be salted?’ So the strength can only be in 
the people. If we have any strength, we get it from the people and it is up to them to see 
that we do our duty by them and fulfil our promises to them. 


Some people laughed when Shni Zia-ur-Rehman quoted an Urdu verse. But the message 
was clear and true enough. There is an unending attempt by vested interests to divide the 
people and to mislead the minorities. I am confident that our people are committed to 
democracy. They understand and respond to the need for a secular approach, the need for 
change within a democratic framework and the need to prevent narrow vested interests 
from obstructing the processes of change. We all know that change is a fact of life, whether 
we like it or not. We all know that the subtlest and cleverest arguments cannot bind us to 


the past. 


Shri H.M. Patel spoke of reasonableness versus radicalism. If you look at the 
circumstances of life as it is in India, I see no reason in a denial of radical change. Whatever 
is made rigid, ceases to be living and organic and may become less and less reflective of 


the needs of a vital and dynamic people. 
So what are the choices before us ? Can we cling to the status quo ? There is a crisis 


in the social order not only in India but in every country of the world and the choice in 
every country is whether changes can come about peacefully or whether they must be driven 


to violent means. 


A little while ago, when one of our colleagues was speaking, I heard several Members 
from the Opposition saying ‘He is twisting the meaning.’ I think all those who have read 


543 


PN CaN 


aes 
27772 
oe 


was 
42:2:2022:: 
2:22 027 22 
Bees 
ARR ese 


cena 
panes 
4००2 


~ 
ना 


REN Sa nna 


: rae 
meat 


aerate! 


2. 
Ay 
८ 
22222 
Paty 
1९; »)” i 
५5 
की 
ead 
aes 
225 
Pe 
Me, 


Bac POR cae ee १ 
“नमन acs NON Ne Sn 


newspapers in the last months and all those who have followed the election campaigns 
will Know where the twisting has taken place, how everything we have said has been twisted 
and misconstrued. One of the words which has lent itself to this misinterpretation is 
‘commitment’. It is a good word and no matter what anybody says about it, we believe in 
commitment and we shall continue to believe in commitment. I think in today’s world, 
this is a word which has great significance for the future. 


What are our commitments ? We are deeply committed to change the condition of the 
lives of millions of our people, the vast majority of whom live in great poverty. When we 
talk of the most urgent problems in the country which are the removal of poverty and the 
lessening of disparities, our slogans have been made the butt of jokes and of ridicule. Any 
Subject, any question, any debate, has evoked the taunt, “What about garibi hatao 7” Surely, 
poverty is too agonising a State to be joked about except by those who have no idea of 
what it is and have no real sympathy with those who live in the state of poverty. If you 
want to look at the question seriously and sincerely, we know that the poverty of ages 
cannot be wiped out in a few wecks, a few months or even a few years. Anybody who 
pretends that he can do so is obviously trying to mislead the public. 


We have never said that we can achieve this by a miracle; we have never said that it 
can be done by magic. We have always said that certain steps have to be taken, deliberate, 
determined steps, and by those steps we can remove, we will remove the poverty of this 
country. 


But this also requires a change in social outlook. There is talk of compensation. Even 
today we have heard some of it. While my colleague was speaking, I heard Shn Piloo 
Mody say something about chori. He knows that this is a subject about which I feel very 
strongly and I would like to put my views before the House, as I have put them on previous 
occasions. Compensation for what ? When we talk of compensation, it is compensation 
for land, compensation for a palace or a big house. I should like to ask hon. Members, 
what about compensation for injustice ? What about compensation for forced labour, of 
the eviction of landless people, for land unfairly grabbed? What happens when a mill 1s 
closed, its machinery run down, its reserves eaten away, even provident funds diverted to 
private purposes ? A small man’s business is closed and a partner driven to the street and 
other such iniguitics of the capitalist system ? 


He मै aK 7 ma ae मर 


Tam glad to see Shri 0100 Mody’s rcaction, but may be he thinks this applies only to 
a few people. *My colleague, Shr: Mohan Kumara Mangalam, in his scientillating speech, 
said something about accumulated wealth. All the wealth is not accumulated. Many of us 
know, that whose who are today demanding compensation did not always own their 
property. (/nterruption). 


2 2k oO ee मं 


* Responding to Shri Piloo Mody’s remarks : ‘“‘Why do you protect them, put a blanket over them ? Put them in 
Jail.” 


But he is not asking for compensation.* I remember specially a tribe, lot of minorities. 
There is a small group of people in the State of Bihar—they are called Tana bhagat. They 
are very small in number, simple and sincere and they were passionately devoted to freedom 
and they were among the first who came forward in the freedom struggle. 


The British took away their lands and today we cannot give them that land. These people 
who were given that land by the British, regard it as their own property and they will 
demand compensation. Is this the sort of compensation that we should give ? It is the Tana 
bhagat who should get compensation for the land taken away from them. There are so 
many cases like this. I do not want to go into the question of Princes because that 1s coming 
up later, but there is plenty to say on that subject. Some of it I have referred to but there is 
more which any research can reveal. 


We believe that the necessary social, political and economic processes which are 
involved in changing poverty must be carried out within a democratic framework. The 
vested interests have, as usual, raised a hue and cry, either through lack of understanding 
or deliberate mischief. As I said earlier they have misinterpreted many of the words which 
we use. I talked earlier of commitment. What I mean is that we are committed to the 
upholding of the freedom of speech, of assembly, of worship of every citizen of this vast 
and varied land. Our commitment to secular democracy is non-negotiable. There is nothing 
negative in our approach. I am not against a class or a section of society. I am for the 
Indian people. I know that they cannot be strong while poverty is deep and widespread. I 
know that they cannot be united while there are disparities and while all sections, including 
the minorities, do not have a full sense of security and a full sense of participation in the 
development of the country. Democracy is not worth much if it does not involve all the 
people. 


I can assure this House and the country that our commitment to upholding in every 
possible way the fundamental rights of our citizens remains absolute. Even when we speak 
of imposing certain restriction on property rights, our intention is not to abolish property. 
Only where property rights are in conflict with public purpose, the public purpose must 
hold away. Our people understand this. In the last elections every possible attempt was 
made to scare the people and to mislead them into believing that all property would straight 
away be taken away. Those who indulge in such propaganda miscalculated and 
underestimated the wisdom of our people, a wisdom based not on formal education but 


on personal experience. 


Some of us have joked and some have shown temper and some have sincerely pleaded 
their cause, but I would urge all hon. Members to approach the issues involved in our 
amendment with calm and sober reflection. These amendments have significant social and 
political import which we must try to understand in all seriousness. 


The measures which we have taken and are taking are milestones in the progress of 
our democracy and are intimately related to the well-being and progress of millions of 


* Responding to a Member's remark, “Kumaramangalam has property.” 


545 


our people. They have come to be regarded by the people as marking a new stage in their 
struggle to build a more egalitarian, more humane, more just society. As their elected 
representatives, it is our duty to reflect their urges. It is in that spirit that I commend to 
you the acceptance of this Bill. By responding to the call of change and the call of the 
future which has strengthened the faith of our people in our democratic institutions and in 
the supremacy of this Parliament which is an expression of their will and also in the sanctity 
of our Constitution. 


During this debate, there have been many quotations, most of them from the United 
States. 


In the Oxford History of the American People, I came across an extract from the 
writings of William Channing, which I should like to share with you. I quote : 


There are reasons, in human affairs, of inward and outward revolution, when new depths 
seem to be broken up in the soul, when new wants are unfolded in multitudes, and a 
new and undefined good 1s thirsted for. There are periods when the principles of 
experience need to be modified, when hope and trust and instinct claim a share with 
prudence in the guidance of affairs. 


mH ae ae a We ae ah 


*+Mr. Chairman, though I am not required to speak, the Bill in question is so vital that 
I thought of saying a few words in this regard. It is a matter of great pleasure to note that 
leaving aside a few members, most of the hon. Members are with us on this issue, and 
there stand is very much appreciable too, because there is hardly any ambiguity as to what 
people actually want. 


Members of one of the parties have demanded in the House that we should seek a 
fresh mandate on this issue and it has also been said that if we do not accept the referendum, 
it is because we are afraid of it. I do not want to mention this point, because it looks 
ridiculous. We had very clearly included this issue in our Manifesto. 


There is hardly any of our Members elected to this House who did not touch this issue 
in his election-speeches. I for myself can say that out of the two points applauded mostly 
by the people, one pertained to this issue that once we returned to power, we would make 
such an amendment. Hence, it is not a step taken in haste and it is also not a matter of 
surprise. 


One of the Members is stated to be resorting to ‘Satyagraha’ today. Those very people 
who used to make mockery of the ‘Satyagraha’ want to tell the people that they too have 
been to jails, no matter 1 was not for participating in the freedom struggle and they were 
even opposed to It. 


me he मु ae he के mK Hm मंद 
* Participating in the debate on the Constitution (Twenty-fourth Amendment) Bill, 1971 (as passed by the Lok 


Sabha) R.S. Deb., 11 August, 1971, cc. 13-45. . 
t Original speech in Hindi. 


+Sir, I was very much in the jail and police lock-up*. The police was present at my 
home and it would be better if you do not mention what you do not know ? 


etek took seh मं 


If you can assert your point and give evidence in its favour, then you must do so before 
the people and this House**. I can assert that there is hardly any comparison between the 
sacrifices made by my family and the sacrifices made by any other family elsewhere in 
the world. It is better not to talk about the things which you are not aware of. I have not 
joined politics recently. I have been associated with it since I was two or three years old. I 
have mentioned in my speech yesterday that I have been in politics for 50 years. 


ae fe मे 2 ak 2 ae ak मं 


I am sorry. ***I am not taking credit for anything. If the hon. Member had patiently 
listened to the speeches which I have made in this House, not outside, he would have found 
that I have paid tributes time and again to all those who have sacrificed their all, their 
lives, their property or anything else.... 


मंः ak ae ah 9k ok He 


All of us know as to who brought forward this Bill in the other House. Ganga Sharan 
Babu and other members of P.S.P. etc. are present here. It was not our Party which brought 
forward this bill. This is the bill brought forward by a member belonging to the other 
party... 


मंद अर fe aie मंद 3fe eae aie - 


I have noted that even in this House a number of parties are cooperating with us on 
this Bill. It is not only the Congress Party but other parties are also supporting it. If they 
say that the opposition parties are no longer the same as they used to be, 1 is acceptable 
to us but none in the world would acknowledge the same. There are a number of opposition 
parties which are cooperating with us on this Bill. Why are they supporting us 7 This is 
not because they want to please an individual or praise a party. 


We have been discussing this matter with other parties for a long time. What was going 
on in the mind of Shri Nath Pai, I know it very well, because this had been discussed 
during several sessions of Parliament for a long tme. Whatever amendments he brought 
into it, were not because he wanted to do so but for the reason that we had not the required 
majority to get the Bill passed in both the Houses of Parliament.... 


ate ae और me aie गुर ac ae He 


The way in which the leader of Jan Sangh put it here, it gives a feeling as if I were 
taking this right in my own hand. If I am required to give an assurance to this House, 


t Original speech in Hindi. 
* Replying to Dr. Bhai Mahavir’s remark : ‘Had you also been to jail that time 7” 
** Replying to Dr. Bhai Mahavir’s remark : “This is not your monopoly, others have also been to jail. Members of 
my family had also been to jail and they sacrificed a lot”. 
*** Replying to Dr. Bhai Mahavir’s remark : “Sir, are there no other people who have sacrificed, who have suffered? 
Our parents also suffered. She is taking credit for what ber father and others did. My father also suffered.” 


though I do not feel it necessary, however, even if it is required then I would like to say 
thaj.this right shall not remain confined to me. Today I am here, tomorrow I may not be 
here and day after tomorrow no one knows where shall I be. In a democratic set up no 
One is sure about one’s fate but the question is whether this right of the House and 
Parliament will ultimately exist or not. This is the question. So, by saying that people distort 
the fact what I mean is that they deviate from the main issues and put forth their views 
about irrelevant things. 


Secondly our colleague Shri Ruthna Swamy of Swatantra Party has also delivered his 
speech. I am sorry that I was not present 1n the House at that time. He is our senior Member 
and has put the views of Swatantra Party very clearly. He has said that the nights of the 
human being such as right to live, nght to freedom and nght to have property must remain. 
We are not at all touching these nghts. Hon. Members are aware that nothing new or 
extraordinary is going to happen at the moment. A situation was prevailing in Parliament 
some 20, 21 or 22 years ago, I do not remember that, whatever that may be, when no one 
was there to care for the rights of Parliament, we are restoring only those rights and we 
are not giving any new right. So far as the question of property is concerned I have also 
discussed it several times earlier and my Party is not opposed to it even the least, and 
there is no such intention in the Bill that we want to take away one’s property or we are 
opposing the right to property. Such things have never happened. We only want to say 
that when the issue of one’s property comes in the way of the interest of the country or 
the society, then the question arises as to whom to give top priority. This is also an issue. 
So, to propagate that the lands of all the small farmers, villagers or Harijans or the people 
who are in minority shall be taken and their property will be attached, is misinformation 
and merely a propaganda. Here, there is a question in the Constitution and it has always 
been haunting us, and this question has always been before the Government of India as to 
how to give equal opportunities to all. We should provide equal opportunities to the people 
and they should get them without any considerations of sex, caste, religion, region or 
language. We know that we are far from achieving this goal and I do not know whether 
we could do it or not but atleast we must put our best efforts to perform this task even 
though there are obstacles in the way. 


ae a मर मं मंप् के मेष ae a 


I am very happy to learn that Dr. Chandra Shekheran has delivered a good speech 
though I was not present in the House during his speech. I have come to know that he has 
declared his Party’s support to this Bill. 


As I have said that we do not want to confiscate anyone’s property. But we want that 
justice should be done. 


On a number of times I have said that I am not against any person, any group or any 
party. However their belief in something may be against our basic principles. Then we 
have to oppose such things vehemently in every manner in the House as well as outside 
the House. Otherwise the very purpose for which the freedom struggle was fought will be 
defeated and the base on which country can be strengthened will be weakened. 


Our colleague, Mr. Tillai Villalan has also mentioned in his just concluded speech as 
to how true justice can be got. That is why I have always made submission in this House 
that we cannot stay aloof from the prevailing ideologies and the problems being faced by 
the world at large. We have to be in the mainstream. And if we isolate ourself from it then 
we can neither change the history nor affect the ideology of others. 


The present Bill is not against the Constitution. On the contrary it will strengthen it 
and I also believe that it will further strengthen the faith of our people in our Constitution 
and democracy.... We desire that country should follow the path of democracy as laid down 
in the Constitution. And if any change is required, it should be made accordingly. A single 
person or a party 1s not demanding the right to change, we are giving this right to Parliament 
which 1s constituted with the vote of the people, that is, we are giving this right to the 
people and I think that none is above the people in any country. 


Hoke ak मं kk mek 


As I said, the apprehension has been created in the minds of minorities, whether they 
are Muslims, Christians or others, that they will be affected adversely or their problems 
will be complicated or their rights will be taken away, or abridged. I would like to assure 
them that there is no such thing in our minds. But if our colleagues from Jan Sangh do 
not take it ill, I would like to mention that the Congress since its existence has always 
stressed on programmes, intended to serve and protect the interests of minorities and to 
remove disparities between minority and majority. We do not want that anybody should 
have a feeling of being in minority or majority. We formulate all our programmes with 
this objective that there should be no discrimination and disparity between the high and 
the low. Everyone should discharge his duty as a citizen of India, and he should get all his 
rights. This is the object of this Bill. 


Many good speeches have been delivered in the House. I heard some of these in the 
House itself and some others in my room. The speech made by our opposition Member, 
Shri Chengalvarayan has received much applause from all sides. Likewise, I heard my 
colleague Shri Pranab Mukherjee last night as the sitting of the House continued till late 
night. It seems that the persons of different opinions are having the same views in this 
regard, because it is an issue of such importance which will have far reaching impact on 


the future as well as the politics of the country. 


I am glad to know that many Members of this House are legal experts who have gone 
through the legal aspects of this Bill. 


But this is neither a legal issue nor I would term it as a statutory one. At present there is 
neither any dispute between Parliament and Judiciary nor there exists any controversy 
between Parliament and Constitution. All of them have got their own importance. As I 
stated in the beginning, had the Golak Nath case not come in the way, the introduction of 
this Bill would not have become necessary. As a result of the Golak Nath case a doubt about 
the factual position has arisen in the minds of the people and Members of Parliament.... 
Thus, it becomes imperative for us to bring a Bill before Parliament which can make it clear 
that this privilege as intended by our Constitution makers, lies in Parliament only. 


549 


- Yesterday, Kaul Sahib had stated here that there was no restriction on Parliament over 
the years and if there had been any restriction then it was a self-imposed one. It clearly 
stipulates whenever a danger is confronted then it is for us to see how we can get rid of it. 


Now, the question is what will be its impact on minorities and others, if this Bull is 
introduced. 


If we look around us or turn the pages of history, then we will find that many 
Constitutions have been repealed. Many laws without being brought before Parliament, 
or without a second thought, have been rejected by the people. 


sab ak aie ah ak ae मर ak 


In India, our people still have full faith in Parliament and Constitution... Why 
democracy in India is becoming firm ? It is simply because our people have still faith in 
us, and they believe that their interests will be looked after and protected by Parliament. 
As I said earlier, once it appears to them that Parliament does not have this power then 
their faith in Parliament and Constitution may lose. As far as the question of referendum 
is concerned, I have already said about it. 


Shn Chengalvarayan has uttered a very good sentcnce, “How can a power which is 
not enjoyed by the creator, be enjoyed by the creature.”” Unfortunately, I could not listen 
to Shri Bhupesh Gupta’s speech but I have come to know that he is going to support the 
Bill. He has already been pressing why a Bill like this was not introduced earlier ? 


..Our intention is not to weaken the Constitution and Parliament, but to strengthen 
them. I am sure that it will strengthen them. We have noticed that it has a very good impact 
on public. We are commited to maintain all the fundamental rights of our countrymen and 
nobody should have an iota of doubt about it. 


Even today, one hon. Member has sent a Shloka to me. I am not reciting it here because 
most of the people must be knowing this Shloka. This is an old Shloka and it is written in 
our scriptures that whenever there is a conflict between our individual interest.and the 
family, then the interest of the family is watched. If the dispute is between a family and 
the village, then the interest of the village is given prionty. If the dispute is between a 
village and the nation then the interest of the nation is kept atop. I hope you will consider 
this Bill in this perspective. I also expect that the Members who have moved amendments 
to this Bill, shall withdraw their amendments, and the Bill will be passed not only by a 
majority but with a thumping majority. 


550 


The Constitution and Social Justice“ 


‘Mr. Speaker, we have all been waiting for this Bill to come before the House and, in 
fact, many hon. Members have complained that it has come very late and that we should 
have brought it much sooner. We have brought it as soon as we could. I am glad to see 
that there is such massive support for it here, as indeed I believe there is in the country as 
a whole. 


The Law Minister has given an able exposition of the need for the Bill and also 
Government’s thinking so that I need not enlarge on many of those points. I am sure that 
in winding up the debate he will also deal with the specific points raised, although when I 
listened very carefully both here and from my room I could not discern any new points at 
all. 


Coming to the CPM. Their line was as expected. There is a basic difference in their 
way of thinking and functioning and ours. It sounds dramatic to talk of throwing out the 
Constitution lock, stock and barrel; it sounds heroic to talk of total revolution; but we all 
know that revolutions also settle down and every country has ultimately to find its own 
pattern. 


And this is what we are trying to do in our country. But we are doing it peacefully and 
democratically. We listen also to the views of hon. Members of the CPM. 


I like Shri Piloo Mody because he helps to enliven the proceedings in the House. But 
there are some subjects which have to be dealt with seriously. 


aK aK भर ac he ak oie aft ak 


He has spoken lightly of the Directive Principles and Fundamental Rights and so on. 
Of course, the Swatantra Party’s pet target has always been our public sector. I would only 
like to ask Shri Mody and his friends in and outside the House, as to who has mismanaged 
the textile mills, whether they be in Ahmedabad or in some other parts of the country. 
What is happening or has happened to the sugar mills in the UP and, for that matter, to 
the Ganesh Flour Mills, whose workers are squatting and starving outside my house. 


nk मै a ae oh afc ah ae a 


* While participating in the discussion on the Motion for consideration of the Constitution (Twenty-fifth Amendment) 
Bill, 1971, LS. Deb., 1 December, 1971, cc. 336-50. 


551 


It is true that there are some public sector units which are not functioning well for 

some there are good reasons for this and for some there are no reasons. I do not want to 

- hide anything which is wrong because there is plenty that is right. But you want to highlight 
tHe wrcng and hide what is right or ignore it 


Anyway, it was also alleged by him* and Shri Anthony and, I think, one or two other 
Members that we have done nothing in all these 24 years to give effect to the Directive 
Principles. To belittle the progress that this country has made, whether it is education or 
in the expansion of opportunities for the people—and I would say, in this I include even 
those people for whom not enough has been done, such as our brethren of the Scheduled 
Castes and Scheduled Tribes and women and others—and also the panchayati movement, 
would be a libel on the whole nation. 


The Directive Principles particularly ask us to avoid the concentration of wealth and 
the means of production and also to ensure the right to work and adequate means of 
livelihood. But did anyone, even those who drew up the Directive Principles, think that 
this could be done in such a short time ? Did anyone in any other country imagine that 
this could be done in a few years ? And to keep on harping on this or to keep on asking 
because we say that poverty must be removed, why it is not immediately removed ! It is 
not a‘bottle that you can pick up and throw away or a label that you can snatch off. Here 
are deep-rooted old problems in the country, which only the most energetic hard work and 
determined pursuance of ideals, can solve. This Bill is a part of that. It is not removing 
poverty; it is not removing the whole of inequality; it is not removing all the injustice that 
exists. It is a very, very small step that helps a little. But that does not mean that it is not 
necessary. It is because it is all these little steps that take us in the nght direction. Of course, 
Mr. Piloo Mody will quarrel with me about the direction. But that is not my fault. To go 
in this direction, to solve these problems, to give these necessary amenities, necessary 
dignity to our people, is the objective of all our plans of development, and it is because 
we have come across certain impediments into them that we have been compelled to 
introduce these amendments. 


It 1s ridiculous to talk about arbitrary use of power. When we realised that because of 
some judicial pronouncements, it was becoming impossible to implement effectively some 
of the Directive Principles, we put the whole thing before our people and their response is 
obvious to all. I do not think I need to speak about this in detail. 


I come now to Mr. Frank Anthony’s speech. His words would have been very eloquent, 
had they not been so suffused and permeated, if you will permit me to say, with bitterness 
and even malice. He made wild accusations, and untenable statements. This was the first 
time that I have heard the term “honest work” used to describe manipulations of share 
and property value. He spoke also of blood and sweat. Certainly, blood has been shed, 
and sweat has flowed. But was it Mr. Anthony’s intention to imply that it was the property- 
owners who have shed the blood and sweat ? This is the impression I got when I was 
sitting here and listening to his speech. Certainly, if anybody’s blood has been shed and 


* Shri Piloo Mody. 


Sata 


552 : 


sweat has flowed, but they are the blood and sweat of those on whose labour these property- 
Owners have prospered. 


Mr. Anthony claimed the monopoly of interpreting the Constitution on the plea that 
he was there. Fortunately, he was not the only one there when the Constitution was 
framed.... 


मैप गंध a 2 ah ak me मंद मं 


Mr. Anthony, I claim no privilege of being a lady.* I do not consider myself a lady. I 
am a woman. I think, the days of “ladies and gentlemen” have long since passed in this 
world. We are here not because we are women or men but because we are a part of the 
human race, because we are involved in what is happening to the rest of the human race. 
We are determined to fight for their rights and their privileges. 


Mr. Anthony also spoke about literacy. All of us, here and specially my collegues, are 
greatly concerned about this matter. Literacy has not progressed as well as it should have 
been. But may I with due respect to the many educationists who are sitting here, say that 
literacy is important but not that important. I do believe that in our country, in these 24 
years, an understanding of many things has grown amongst our people. I may also say, 
with due respect to the people in other countries that in no way is this understanding inferior 
to that of the literate people of the advanced countries. I think, for us who sit in Parliament 
because of the support of the people to refer sheeringly, to those who are illiterate is hardly 
becoming. They are the people who have supported for this country. It is their blood and 
sweat that has helped this country to survive, whether in war or 1n peace.... 


mie a4 3k eK ac ai fc oi 


Much has been said about our keeping an eye on votes. I should like to know from 
you here and in confidence if you like, do you know of any political party in India or in 
the United Kingdom or in the United States or elsewhere in the world, which is not 
concemed with vote ? Do you know of any political individual who is not concerned with 
vote’s ? All this sounds very well. But what does it mean when you get down to it ? When 
you try to find out what he is trying to say, it has no meaning. 


ae मर ak मर ak ak ake a af 


I would like to add that I doubt if there is any other party which has stood so firmly 
for measures which have been unpopular amongst the people. It is not that we have stood 
only for measures which are popular. We have stood for them and we have persuaded the 
people that ultimately it was the right thing, even though there were so many people trying 
to delude them into the belief that our moves were against religion or some interest or the 
other. We do not abandon measures because they happen to be unpopular. 


In an election meeting a long time ago. I was told ‘Please don’t mention such and such 
matter because people here are very angry, and if you talk about it, we will lose the election’. 


* Replying to Shri Frank Anthony's observations, “You are a lady. I will not correct your incorrect statement. You are 
misquoting me”. 


553 


My réply was that since, “This was what the Opposition parties were saying if I did not 
reply to them, there would be no point in my talking.’ So, they said, ‘You need not speak. 
You can just sit on the platform.’ So, I said, ‘All right’. After two people had spoken, an 
old man got up and remarked, ‘I have walked five miles to come here to hear my sister. 
When is she going to speak ?’ I thought this was an opportunity and I got up and said, ‘I 
want to speak, but people think that what I am going to say will annoy you. So, they do 
not want me to speak. It is upto you. Shall I speak ?’ ‘Naturally’, he said. Then I explained 
our proposal. He said, the question has never been explained to us before. The Opposition 
Parties are saying the opposite. So, it 1s not that we shun moves which are unpopular and 
which may lose us votes. Many things have lost us votes but we have not left those 
programmes for that reason. ..(/nterruption) I do not want to belittle the importance of the 
vote, because we all know that it is the symbol of the wishes of the people. 


He ae ae a oe ae ae a 


Parliament is a repository of the hopes and wishes of the people. It is the fountainhead 
of change and of justice. If Parliament is rendered unable to bring about change or to ensure 
social fustice, then change will bypass Parliament. I have full respect for the Judiciary but 
I must say that it is Parliament which is the expression and guardian of the democratic 
will. 


Earlier also, amendments to the Constitution became necessary because the courts have 
made it difficult for Parliament to implement programmes of social justice. The present 
set of amendments have also become necessary for the same reason. 


Earlier I spoke about other people who were there at the time of the making of the 
Constitution and at that time this is what my father said about compensation—in the 
Constituent Assembly while the Constitution was still being drafted. I quote : 


Eminent lawyers have told us that on a proper construction of this clause, normally 
speaking, the judiciary should not and does not come in. Parliament fixes either the 
compensation itself or the Principles governing that compensation and they should not 
be challenged except for one reason, where it is thought that there has been a gross 
abuse of the law, where in fact there has been a fraud on the Constitution. Naturally, 
the judiciary comes in to see if there has been a fraud on the Constitution or not. But 
normally speaking, one presumes that any Parliament representing the entire community 
of the nation will certainly not commit a fraud on its own Constiwtion and will be 
very much concerned with doing justice to the individual as well as the community. 


a ak of ha ae a ak 


All citizens are equal before the law. But can we honestly say that our law, as it has 
developed and as it has been interpreted, is giving that equality in actual practice ? 


Many judgements have favoured the propertied classes, equating compensation with 
market value. 


Shri Samar Guha was very eloquent'on what the hon. Law Minister said about the 
judiciary. I am sure the Law Minister did not in any way mean to say anything against the 


judiciary. He has, I think, full respect for the judiciary, and I may say, he has fuller respect 
for the judiciary.... 


me a a a ok मर ae ah 


There is no decision in the world which is not political.* If the hon. Member is saying 


that ary speech which he has made here is not political, I am very sorry that I do not believe 
Tt sses 


me ak ak ae fe ok me मं 


I would say that the remarks which hon. Member is making on this point are equally 
political**. They are equally with an eye on some section or another which he may think 
will want that point of view to be put forward. 


I must point out that he made a very uncharitable statement about which I would like 
to protest very strongly, Mr. Speaker. If I have heard him correctly, he said something about 
Members of my party working for outside interests. Obviously he is judging people by 
his own standards, this does not happen in my party. 


We fe मर मं के ok me जद मर 


I would not have said this if he*** had not made any uncharitable remark about our 
party. There is a French proverb which says—I shall not say it in French, translated into 
English it says—that “This animal is wicked, because he defends himself when he is 
beaten’. 


Sir, much has been said about market value. Now, what is market value ? And how 
does it appreciate ? The price of property goes up because of the investments made by 
society, because we build the land, we build the roads and we build industry. It is 
unacceptable to us that a few should skim the cream of social investments, defrauding 
society as a whole. 


I must say, I have, not much respect for market value or the values of the market- 
place for that matter. The whole idea of private profit at the cost of the common man is 
repugnant to me, to my party, and I think, to the nation. It 18 astonishing how those who 
sneer at socialism being a foreign concept or import have had no hesitation whatsoever in 
embracing capitalism with such great ardour. 


I think it was Shri Alladi Krishnaswami lyer, the great jurist, who said : 


Our ancients never regarded the institution of property as an end in itself. Capitalism 
as it is practised in the West came in the wake of the Industrial Revolution and is alien 
to the root ideas of our civilisation. 


* Replying to Shri Samar Guha who said, “He said political decision on political issues”. 
** Shri Samar Guha. 
*** Shri Samar Guha. 


555 


SPO 

ms os 

CREO 
SIRES 


Reet? 7१६० Fat s eat 
aarp inane ee 
; a aoe: Si 5 : 2०402: 
i aA SO NE SO 
4 2120: 70:20 
Scena ४:28 Cerentino 


ata NT eatate ee 
Ree pce 
Sees 


Ee NN 5 धरा: 
Oe SS 


ni 
a 


4 would like to reiterate that our amendments does not represent a departure from the 
basic framework of our Constitution. It is an effort to. safeguard the intent of the 
Constitution. The Constitution-framers did not envisage any unregulated right to private 
property nor did they want property nghts to come in the way of socio-economic progress. 


Shri Vajpayee has returned to the House, not returned as a member, but since yesterday 
or the day before with a new-found enthusiasm for socialism. I think that on deeper thought 
he was trying to be right. I welcome this. 


fea ak मै मं अं aL, 


If he accepts our policies in toto, if he accepts our methods, our principles, our aims, 
certainly he is welcome”. I have no quarrel with Shri Vajpayee. I quarrel with his ideas. I 
have said that many times before. The only point I want to make is that if he wants to 
accept socialism, he will also have to reconsider many of his other ideas. 


Shri Shyamnandan Babu also spoke of being a socialist. But he says he is a different 
kind of socialist. 


ac ok मर me Oe kc me i a 


But I am afraid that lately he has been obsessed with rather trivial matters and not 
with basic matters which concern the country and the people. 


I think I have dealt with the point made by Shri Krishna Menon. But I would like to 
repeat it in case there is any misgiving. He expressed concern that we were undermining 
people’s confidence in the judiciary. I would like to emphasise that we do not want to 
weaken the judiciary. What we are saying is only this : let the judiciary not try to take 
over the powers of Parliament. I entirely agree with him that an impartial judiciary is 
indispensable to the rule of law. 


Now, the other matter that has been worrying many members here is about minorities. 
I have no hesitation in saying with all the emphasis at my command that there is absolutely 
no threat to the minorities. Our Constitution has specific provisions giving the fullest 
protection to the minorities and to their educational and religious institutions. None of this 
is being touched or changed. I would like to say this since it 1s widely being rumoured 
around Parliament that some people may exploit this and accuse the Government or the 
Congress, of giving more to the minorities than to the majority. This is not new propaganda. 
We have heard it before. 


We have faced it during elections. I sincerely hope that the public of India will see 
things in there true light. We are certainly not against the majority. How can we be ? 
Because, much as we welcome the support of the minorities, it is only the support of the 
majority that has brought us here—Shri Vajpayee may note. Nobody could have come to 
this Parliament with the support merely of the minorities. So when he says that we have 


* Replying to Shri Piloo Mody’s remark : ““Why don’t you welcome him 7?” 


556 


one eye on the minorities, let me assure him that we can never do this at the cost of the 
majority community. But I do believe that in every country the majority has a responsibility. 
The bigger man has a responsibility towards the smaller man. We certainly hope that the 
day will come, and that too very soon, when we do not need to have these safeguards, 
when everybody can feel that he can get his just right and so on. But that day has not 
come yet. Therefore, we have to have safeguards for the minorities. Not only that, we have 
also special programmes for the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes. With all that, 
we have not yet been able to bring them to a place where they can compete fully with the 
others. 


ae ak मंद Hak ak ae ae और 


I think the greatest protection to the rights of the majority as well as the rights of the 
minorities is this Parliament and the people as a whole. 


May I now turn to the five amendments proposed by the Law Minister, amendments 
Nos. 11, 12, 13, 36 and 57 ? Regarding amendment No. 11, its objective was clear, to 
allay the apprehensions of the minorities that the amendment of Art. 31 would affect their 
rights under Art. 30. 


The Amendment was intended to make it clear that whatever rights the minorities 
already possessed under article 30 would not be affected by the amendment of article 31. 
We feel that it is important to reassure the minorities regarding this matter. But we have 
now decided not to move amendment No. 11 but to substitute 1 with another amendment 
No. 57, which, we feel, expresses more clearly the intention of Government. The Law 
Minister will explain this in detail. 


So far as amendment Nos. 12, 13 and 36 are concerned, the Government has followed 
with interest the various expressions of opinion of different Members during the debate. 
There appears to be a certain apprehension that Government is going back on its previous 
position. Amendment No. 12 is an attempt to clarify the scope of the jurisdiction of the 
court, but in view of the expressions of opinion made by different Members that the original 
draft is more satisfactory, Government have decided not to have amendment No. 12. 


So far as amendment Nos. 13 and 36 are concerned, which introduce the need for a 
special majority for passing laws under article 31C, again there has been some apprehension 
that this could make it difficult to enact legislation which is directed at implementing the 
directive principles under article 31B and C. We have given our most anxious consideration 
to this matter, and have come to the conclusion that there is a certain basis for these 
apprehensions and that in fact the progress of legislation effectuating the principles referred 
to in article 31B and C might be retarded. We have, therefore, decided not to move these 


amendments. 


But the crux of the matter is very simple for whom are our Constitution and our laws 
meant—are they meant for the few privileged or for the many, poor and weak ? The 
fundamental rights and the directive principles are intended to benefit the poor and the 
weak, whether they are in the majority or in the minority. It would be a travesty of the 


557 


BS 207: :: Sd OR ए: 77:07: 
BINS ae ee ea RR BER EE 5:59 
Be ene (17422 25००2, siete PON OP Oar 
पट 1४5: 
2 


50%४%६४४८८:४०४:८८::८:८०४४ 
Ces 
Ses Secale r 


wa 
रे 
ed 


sie 
a ds’ ‘a 
NERS 
Bese a 
०५००० 
cot 


::05:22%%%5: 

hee BR . 

441८3 
ca 


SES 


“apatite eve 
= oe 1:22 2:722 


Constitution if the fundamental rights afford protection to the privileged against the true 
interests of the poor. 


I do not think there is any conflict between fundamental rights and the directive 
principles. They are supplementary and complementary. If you are afraid that our people 
are going to lose their faith in the fundamental values of the Constitution, I can only allay 
your fears by asking you to go and talk to the people. If Parliament misuses its power, I 
am sure that our people will not tolerate that Parliament for long. In any case, as my 
colleagues have already explained, any colourable use of the legislative power will always 
be open to judicial scrutiny. 


Sir, I quoted something from my father, but the same thing has been said in different 
words by Abraham Lincoln, with which I would like to end : 


“Why should there not be a patient confidence in the ultimate justice of the people ? Is 
there any equal I hope in the world ?” 


Sir, I commend these amendments to the House. 


ee 


558 | : 


Abolition of Privy Purses* 


Mr. Speaker Sir, I beg to move : 
“That the Bill further to amend the Constitution of India, be taken into consideration.” 


I do not think that any eleborate speech is expected of me. The principle underlying 
the Bill has been argued here before and accepted with overwhelming majority. It was 
fifteen months ago that I had moved a Bill to abolish the purses and privileges and as I 
have said just now, it won more than two-thirds vote in the Lok Sabha and in the Rajya 
Sabha it failed to secure the required special majority by a fraction of a vote. But that was 
a more technical failure. The will of the people was not in doubt. 


We, therefore, gave effect to it by Presidential Order on September 6th. This was taken 
to the Supreme Court which set aside the Presidential Order on December 15th. On that 
very day, I told the House that the Government stood committed to the abolition of privy 
purses and privileges through appropriate constitutional means. 


This decision was reiterated in our election manifesto and it secured the overwhelming 
endorsement of the people of the country. So, we have come before the House in fulfilment 


of a pledge. 


Some changes have been made in the Bill as presented to the House this time, keeping 
in view the observations of the Supreme Court. 


This is the third batch of Bills to amend the Constitution. The purpose of all these 
Bills, as the House knows, is to narrow the disparities in our society. Since Freedom, we 
have been setting right the old disparities and social injustices one by one, and this is yet 
another step towards the creation of an egalitarian society. 


The House is aware that there is a great deal of feeling in the country against inherited 
special status, against privileges unrelated to function or responsibility, against exemptions 
and facilities enjoyed without adequate reason. We have adopted a series of measures to 
remove such vested interests. Absentee landlords have been eliminated. The economic 
power of the merchant princes is being checked. It is but fair that the feudal princes also 
be asked to shed their special privileges. I hope that the princes will view this in historical 
perspective. A levelling process is a work in our society, a process which is abolishing 


* While moving the Constitution (Twenty-sixth Amendment) Bill, 1971 for consideration in Lok Sabha, LS. Deb., 
2 December, 1971, cc. 138-41. 


559 


divisions and class distinctions. Certain forces are irreversible. and inexorable. We can 
choose to ignore them and resist them and be swept aside, or we can recognise their reality 
and attempt to give some direction to them. 


I do admit that a large number of princes have acted with foresight and have adjusted 
themselves to changes, and I should like also to acknowledge the patriotic spirit with which 
they acted to facilitate the political integration of the country after independence. Later 
there were earnest attempts to persuade them voluntarily to abrogate their privileges. The 
response from some was prompt and encouraging; others were not equally responsive. They 
failed to appreciate the fact that when a moment is not seized, it will not come again. I am 
not trying to apportion blame. I would have been happy if the problem could have been 
solved through discussion. We did have some talks, but there seemed to be such a gap 
between our thinking and theirs that one could not see any common meeting ground, and 
the solution could not be indefinitely postponed. 


I should like to say again, what I have said earlier, that there is no personal animus 
against any individual prince or even against the princely order as such. Our quarrel, if 
one can cal] it a quarrel, 1s against a system that no longer has relevance in our society, or, 
for that matter, in any society. 


A great community of equals is being created in our country, and I would invite the 
princes and princesses to join this community unencumbered by a sense of past authority. 


Yesterday, quite by chance, we had a little interlude about ladies and gentlemen and 
men and women. 


aK We oe me अर aK ae कै ok 


There was a time when superiority could be measured only by rank or by wealth. But 
today the scope to show one’s worth is very much vaster, in fact I would say, practically 
unlimited. I feel that by taking away the privy purses and privileges, which I do not think 
add to the worth of a person in any way, we might be depriving the princes of some pomp 
and luxury, but at the same time we are giving them the opportunity of being men. 


This Bill represents the spirit of history. 1 commend 1t to the House and request my 
hon. colleague, the Law Minister, to deal further with it in the remaining stages. 


a ae मर ae vk अर aie 2k 3 
*Mr. Chairman, Sir, I beg to move— 


“That the Bill further to amend the Constitution of India, as passed by the Lok Sabha, 
be taken into consideration.” 


Sir, so much has been said on this subject and so much important business 1s there 
before the House that I do not want to say anything at all. All our views are known to the 


* While moving the Bill in Rajya Sabha, R.S. Deb., 9 December, 1971, cc. 7-10. 


oe Rute eg 


oe 1 ; 
Ee Seana cane 


Boon 
2A 
०८०० 
eae 
Pads 
Be 
BAe 
. 
at 
4 
हि 2४०, 
nee 
Bae 
४222 
हट 
ten 
Oe 
हि 
pad 
हि 


121 


Hon eiatas eS 


40 


eee 
ee 
oe पट 


रा cst 
जप ats tet 
Se 


House and the nation. And this was one of the items which we had put before the electorate 
and on which I think the response of the people has been very clear. Since then there is a 
new Situation in the country. In Bangladesh and along our western borders and in some 
places beyond the western borders, our valiant forces are today fighting to defend the 
integrity of India and the values for which India stands. 


War in my view is an unmitigated evil, yet it does generate a spirit of comradeship. 
This 1s because neither bullets nor bombs nor the mud of the battle-field distinguishes 
between one man and the other, between the rank of a person and the wealth of a person 
or the birth of a person. Today our viliant forces are fighting as equals and without 
distinction of religion, class or status. At least one within them to my knowledge is a 
‘prince’ and others are people of many other categories. 


The days are gone when birth was the chief road to distinction. All over the world 
today, distinction comes from achievement, and I believe that the highest privilege to which 
one Can aspire in our country should be the privilege of being an Indian, a free Indian, a 
democratic Indian, not higher or lower than any other Indian, and this is the type of society 
which we are trying to establish. We have not yet succeeded, but this is what we are trying 
to do step by step. I have often heard, even yesterday when the Constitution (Twenty-fifth 
Amendment) Bill was before this House, people saying that so many things have not been 
done. We too are poignantly aware that many things have not been done. Many inequalities 
and injustices do exist. But at least those of which that can be removed little by little, step 
by step, we are trying to remove. There is no use wailing on the evils of the past society 
because in olden times all societies were marked by hierarchy and so was ours. We had 
an added disadvantage of caste which introduced further divisions but the march of history 
has seen the abolition of the feudal order. In other countries, the old order—the ancient 
regime, as it was called in Europe—was abolished with much violence. Here in India we 
won our freedom through non-violence and our social revolution is also being achieved 
non-violent! y—whether it is the abolition of untouchability or of absentee landlordism or 
the princely order, all these things are being done democratically, peacefully and with the 
consent of the people. This should be a matter of satisfaction to us all. 


As I have said on numerous occasions, we do stand for change in society. We think 
the change could be more rapid, more widespread than it is at the moment, but at the same 
time we believe that change should be peaceful. We also believe that if the forces of change 
are obstrocted, you do not stop change, you merely obstruct the peaceful and orderly 
transition. So our attempt at bringing about social change—and this includes the abolition 
of privileges being enjoyed by the princes—should not be regarded by them or by anybody 
else as an indictment of the princes as individuals or as a group. The princes acted with 
practical good sense when the country was politically integrated. Even in this matter which 
concems them so intimately, some have displayed the proper understanding of the issues 
involved. They have recognised that the trmes have changed and they have seen the wisdom 
of trying to meet the change half way. It is my belief that to allow such an anachronism to 
continue would be as much an obstruction to them as to our society as a whole. The Princes 
are Indians as the rest of us are. They are citizens as the rest of us are and we owe a duty 
to them as they owe a duty to our society and to the country. So at this moment of danger 


561 


and difficulty of the country, let us not dwell on the past but look to the great and pressing 
“neqds of the present and to the future which beackons us and which we have to build 
together. I commend this Bill to the House. J invite the Princes to join the elite of the modern 
age, the elite which earns respect by its talent, energy and contribution to human progress, 
all of which can be done only when we work together as equals without regarding anybody 


as of special status. 


I request the House to pass this Bill. The Law Minister will deal with it further in the 
remaining Stages. 


Role of the Opposition in Parliament* 


Mr. Deputy Chairman, Sir, for several days tempers have run high. It is necessary for 
us all to see the entire matter in a calmer frame of mind and in the proper perspective. 
That will be my endeavour in rising to speak. 


The House has spent many hours debating the issue of making public the C.B.I. report 
and in the process, a situation has arisen which causes us the gravest concern and is bound 
to have wide repercussions. It is therefore a matter of sorrow that a senior Member of 
Parliament who was known to feel strongly about upholding the proprieties and respect 
for the due processes of law, should decide to use coercive methods to prevent the 
functioning of the House. Obstructionist methods do not become less dangerous by using 
evocative terms like ‘Satyagraha’. While speaking of democracy, some people are building 
up an atmosphere of confrontation perhaps because they are basically against fully 
representative democracy and wish to undermine the people’s faith in parliamentary 
institutions. The misguided resort to satyagraha plays into their hands. Satyagraha was used 
as a political weapon when no other way was open to us to register the people’s will. But 
our political system affords the fullest scope for the people’s will to assert itself. The 
persistence with which some Members are obstructing the work of the House does not 
augur well for our parliamentary democracy. In all seriousness, I urge hon. Members not 
to bring about a deadlock. As Members of this august House, it is our duty to see that no 
group is allowed to subvert the parliamentary process. We respect the role of the Opposition; 
it is an essential role. The Opposition also must recognise that the work of the country 
should not be thwarted. Important and urgent legislative business especially the legislation 
connected with the drive against smugglers and other vital economic issues which are 
exercising the minds of the people and have a direct bearing on their well-being, are getting 
inordinately delayed. 


My colleagues have already given our reasons for not placing the C.B.I. report on the 
Table of the House. However, suspicion 18 sought to be created in the public mind and 1 
should like to clarify this matter. We have nothing to hide nor are we objecting to the placing 
of the report on merely technical grounds. The C.B.I. is an investigating authority. It would 
run counter to the accepted principles of our judicial process to make public an investigating 
document at a time when the trial against the accused is imminent. Under the Code of 
Criminal Procedure, the documents which an investigating officer is required to maintain, 


* Speaking during the discussion regarding the demand to make public the CBI Report about the Licences Case, 
R.S. Deb., 9 December, 1974, cc. 125-27. 


52५५ 


का 


Tes 
Ss, 


are case diaries which contain day-to-day records of the investigations conducted by the 
investigating officer. As soon as the investigation is complete the.investigating officer, under 
Section 173 Cr. PC. has to submit a charge sheet if any persons have 10 be tried for any 
offence, or a final report in the prescribed form if the case has to be closed for want of 
evidence, to the Magistrate having jurisdiction. 


No other report is prescribed under the Cr. P.C. In the C.B.I., standing instructions lay 
down that the investigating officer should prepare a detailed report giving a summary of 
the oral and documentary evidence which has come on record during investigation, and a 
discussion of this evidence. This report contains only a summary of the statements of 
witnesses and references to documents relied upon by the prosecution. Also, statements 
recorded during investigation are inadmissible in evidence and cannot be used except for 
the limited purpose of contradicting a witness as laid down in section 162 of the Code of 
Criminal Procedure. What 1s treated as evidence are the statements which witnesses actvally 
make in court and the documents which are produced and proved during the court trial.... 


We AE af aye oe oe ac af af 


Therefore, if this report were placed on the Table of the House, the ensuing debate 
would virtually amount to a concurrent trial which will not only defeat the ends of justice, 
by prejudicing the trial in court but may also result in a conflict between the courts and 
Parliament. I am sure this 1s not the intention of hon. Members.... 


ae a ae Heke ak ae akc ak 


For these reasons, such a report has never been placed on the Table of the House in 
the long history of the C.B.I. which has established a reputation both for integrity and 
impartiality. 


Now when a copy of the charge-sheet, which is a fairly detailed document, has been 
made available, why should so much time be taken up merely in demanding a copy of the 
report ? Does this not indicate that the real intention behind the demand is not a proper 
discussion of the case but rather its exploitation for a political purpose ? 


ok मं eat ae 4OFOK 


_It 1s also unfortunate that because of some small supposed political gain, some hon. 
Members of the Opposition are trying to set a new precedent which might make the 
functioning of the C.B.I. difficult in future. 


I have given reasons why the report cannot be laid on the Table of the House. But in 
view of the entirely unjustified propaganda being carried on inside the House and outside, 
and to accommodate the sentiments of the Opposition, while maintaining legal rectitude, 
Government is willing to accept the suggestion that the leaders of the Opposition might 
see, in confidence and under oath of secrecy, the C.B.I. report...statements made by 
witnesses and documents seized during the investigation, the report of the handwriting 
expert and even the case diaries which are not even shown to the accused. Our hesitation 
to do so was merely to prevent situations in the future which would inhibit people from 


१९ | 
Reece “हे 
pes 

Ye Sead 


pee me 


giving information. I sincerely hope that this eminently fair and practical suggestion will 
be acceptable to them also. If the Opposition rejects this, it will be patent that Government 
has nothing to hide but that many of the Opposition parties are not at all interested in truth 
or justice but in pursuing narrow partisan ends. 


In this situation, we must all conduct ourselves in the fullest consciousness of our high 
responsibility. The first element of this responsibility is to ensure that Parliament functions. 
The cause of democracy cannot be served by bringing Parliament to a standstill. I beseech 
you not to use any method which will undermine the very basis of the highest democratic 
institution in our country, namely, Parliament. Let it not be said that the achievement of 
generations was wrecked in a moment of anger. 


Parliament’s Right to Amend the Constitution“ 


Mr. Speaker, Sir, I rise with a sense of dedication for I am keenly conscious of the 
high significance of what we are doing here in this House. 16 months ago, I spoke of the 
need to restore the health of our democracy. The Bill now before the House may not be 
perfect and many Members have pointed out its imperfections. But it is, I earnestly believe, 
a vital step in curing our political system of some of the ills to which it is subject. I think, 
it will add to the country’s strength and capacity to fulfil our national objectives and to 
realise few more of the hopes of our people. But I must confess to disappointment at the 
attitude of a few Opposition parties. They demand full discussion of the amendment but 
they keep away from Parliament, the supreme forum of such a discussion. This kind of 
escaping responsibility is difficult to appreciate except, as we have all noticed, that 
irresponsibility has become a habit with some people. To non-cooperate with Parliament 
is to non-cooperate with the people. My advice to the un-reconciled Opposition parties 
would be to give up their negative opposition and return to the path of reason and 
responsibility. Of course, this negative Opposition is not born out of the Emergency, as 
some hon. Members opposite have hinted. It started long before Emergency; and in fact, 
it was one of the causes for the Emergency. 


Amongst those of the Opposition who did speak, some seemed to be groping to find 
something to criticize. That is why their arguments were rather contrived. All that this 
section of the Opposition is saying to-day they have been repeating throughout this difficult 
period, during and since the last elections. And no matter how many more discussions we 
have, I doubt whether they are going to come up with any new argument. 


Some hon. Members asked why we have waited so long to bring in these amendments. 
The hon. House 1s aware—and so are the people of India-that we have amended the 
Constitution earlier. We have gone ahead with our programmes in spite of tremendous odds 
and unforeseen difficulties, external as well as internal. It was the abuse of democracy by 
some of the Opposition, the obstruction in the way of our legitimate functioning which 
necessitated further consideration and action. And enough evidence of this attitude and of 
the actions of the Opposition is available in print and in the memories of all of us present 
here and a large part of the world, not just of this country. 


Were the actions of the Opposition in Gujarat leading to the dissolution of the Assembly 
democratic? Therefore it ill behoves any one belonging to the Opposition and coming from 


* Participating in the discussion on the Motion for-the consideration of the Constitution (Forty-fourth Amendment) 
Bill, 1976, L.S. Deb., 27 October 1976, cc.135-47. 


that State to lecture us on democracy. The Gujarat agitation was the beginning of the threat 
to the very survival of our democratic system. 


Then some people have spoken of lack of political will. I think that our actions—I am 
not speaking our words but of our actions—have demonstrated that there has been no lack 
of political will. In fact it was the will and the determination which aroused such anger 
and evoked the campaign of criticism and calumny against our party and against me, 
personally. Those who are now speaking about freedom of speech did not seem to be 
concerned with the suppression af the voices of the millions of the poor. Those who are 
expressing such anguished concern for democracy—how many of them collected signatures 
against the politics of falsehood and hate, against violence, arson and murder? And if they 
have, I think it must be in a very obscure comer because our attention was not drawn to 
it. 


Then, there are those whom Professor Mukherjee rightly called, ‘political mercenaries’ 
those who have no foot-hold in India but are hailed abroad as leaders. As for those who 
haunt foreign embassies and high commissions, it is not a question of “a handful of silver’, 
but of bottles of whisky, trips abroad or scholarships for their children. Any one who is 
proud of India’s heritage, proud of the greatness of the Indian people cannot but feel deep 
shame at the antics of these so-called ‘friends of democracy’. 


The R.S.S. and Ananda Marg, apart from their underground activities which still persist 
here, have found it more profitable financially and otherwise, to establish branches in 
several foreign countries. What has been the role of these two groups, what has been their 
commitment to democracy all these years? Has any Member of the Opposition given 
thought to this aspect? 


I am sorry that even the attitude of my hon. friend sitting opposite was somewhat 
ambiguous. The hon. Member spoke of not mixing minor items such as quorums with such 
a serious amendment. He charged us with diverting attention from the main clauses. Others 
also criticized the part of the Executive and various other matters. Justice Subha Rao’s 
trying for Presidentship was a blatant indication, not only of the political bias of some of 
the judiciary, but of their intention to be involved in and to interfere in politics. The question 
was not of a particular individual, it was symptomatic of the basic struggle, the spearhead 
of the entire movement against everything that the Congress party as a representative of 
the freedom struggle, had advocated and struggled for, the programmes and ideas on which 
not just one but all our elections were fought and won. 


Many have pressed for the deletion of the property clause. Today our thrust is not merely 
on directions or intentions, but on actual action. Hon. Members will remember a time when 
the Congress party passed a resolution regarding co-operative farming. There was nothing 
in it about people having to give up their land, there was nothing in it about collective 
farming, yet such a tremendous campaign of propaganda was launched that even that very 
moderate programme could not get off the ground. You all know how easy it is to spread 
misunderstanding, specially amongst those who have little property. Perhaps it is those 
who have more, who spread misunderstanding but whatever it is, the result is that even 


$67 


जोर 


SBN AIDS IS SORE 74८० 
22225 ; cess es 20228: 
2 


ty 


Dene 
x 


the man who has a small piece of property gets upset that his little bit will be touched. 
"Hence our caution not to be pushed into any position which weuld make it more difficult 
to implement our programmes. The 20-Point Programme and the 5-Point Programme are 
not individual programmes; they are national programmes and they are essential for our 
progress. They are essential to all the other programmes which we want to implement. 


As regards family planning, the Health Minister and I have made repeated and clear 
statements of the policy of the Government of India. We do not approve of compulsion. 
But we do believe that programmes of sterilization and the adoption of all other known 
effective measures for the control of population are important and most urgent. It is our 
view and that of many non-Government people who have travelled around the country, 
that there is now an awareness and acceptance of these programmes. But, and it is a big 
‘but’, certain parties, groups and individuals have been raising a hue and cry, creating 
misunderstanding and an atmosphere of fear. As we all know, fear leads to irrational action. 
Therefore, when a situation of confrontation is deliberately created, there are tragic 
consequences. Some deaths have taken place due to firing, though the figure given by some 
hon. Members is greatly exaggerated. On the other hand, organized groups have also killed 
policemen and other citizens, even those who were not on a family planning mission. Where 
there is harassment, it should certainly be dealt with. But it will be easier to do so if people 
are not incited and encouraged to take the law in their hands, and also if political parties 
and outside interests will not try to take political advantage of the situation. 


Another party questioned whether any State Government had defied the Centre. I do 
not know whether I would use that particular word, but we do have examples of State 
Governments creating difficulties with regard to national property and production. By the 
way, the Railway Police are also under State jurisdiction. So the alleged confrontation was 
not between the Centre and Kerala, nor was it anything but a friendly wrangle. The Goa 
referendum was an entirely different issue and has no relevance to the recent situation. 


Many hon. Members have spoken about the purposes of Government and the problems 
of nation-building, from deep knowledge. Shri, Gokhale and others quoted Jawaharlal 
Nehru’s admonition to the Constituent Assembly not to tie down future generations. 
Jawaharlal Nehru knew the country had to, and would, change speedily, he himself planted 
and nurtured the seeds of change. As the House knows, the first amendment to the 
Constitution came within months of the adoption of the documents. Indeed, many will recall 
that even as the Constituent Assembly was in session, so many charges were occurring, 
for example, the integration of the States, when many clauses were reopened and revised. 
So, revision and adjustment in changing conditions are part and parcel of our Constitution. 
Those who want to fix it in a rigid and unalterable frame do not know the spirit of our 
Constitution and are entirely out of tune with the spirit of new India. 


Various theories, as to what constitutes the core of our Constitution, have been put 
forward. Some say Fundamental Rights, others, the Directive Principles Chapter. Yet others 
think it is judicial review. A doctrine of constitutional supremacy has been propounded. 
The true supremacy is that of the people. While the Constitution is a very important 
document, it is but an instrument to serve the people. The Constitution exists for the people. 
People should certainly respect it, but they cannot be sacrified for it. 


568 ° 


A wholly unjustified charge is that the amendments are intended to serve the Congress. 
The Congress has always thought of the country, not of itself. The Congress took the lead 
in drafting the Constitution, as it took the lead in the fight for freedom. Shri Shiva Rao, a 
recognised authority on the Constitution, has written: 


“The Congress was labouring for freedom and unity, not for a party or a section but 
for the country as a whole.” (B. Shiva Rao, The Framing of India’s Constitution’, Vol. 
1, Page 121).” 


The same considerations guide us today: freedom and unity and the good of the country 
as a whole, not the gain of any particular section. The Congress invited many non- 
Congressmen to participate in the task of Constitution—making. When the work was over, 
a non-Congressman, Dr. Ambedkar did not hesitate to concede: 


“The possibility of chaos (in drafting and debate) was reduced to nil by the evistence 
of the Congress Party inside the Assembly which brought into its proceedings, a sense 
of order and discipline. It is because of the discipline of the Congress that the Drafting 
Committee was able to pilot the Constitution in the Assembly with the sure knowledge 
as to the fate of each article and each amendment”’. (Ibid p. 838) 


The Congress continues to be impelled by the same discipline, the same desire, to ensure 
the national good. 


A Constitution must give order and stability, it must ensure that the organs of 
Government are responsible to the people and subject to their will. It prescribes restraints 
on all and that is the essence of the rule of law. There can be stability and responsibility 
and law only if the legislature, the executive and the judiciary respond to the changing 
needs and aspirations of our people. 


This is what the present Bill does: it is responsive to the aspirations of the people and 
reflects the realities of the present time and the future. It is not hastily conceived, it is 
drawn up with care and deliberation. Many of the changes were, in fact, suggested by the 
Committee set up by Jawaharlal Nehru in 1954. So in a sense, the discussion has been 
going on for twenty whole years. This certainly cannot be called rushing or stampeding! 


We are assailed on the ground that we want to establish executive dominance. We have 
not changed anything. What was implicit has now been made clear. An understanding of 
the parliamentary system shows that in our system the executive is a parliamentary 
executive. All Ministers are Members of Parliament and they are daily accountable to 
Parliament. 


Some people quote British practice and precedent day in and day out and challenge 
the right of our Parliament to amend the Constitution through processes set forth in the 
Constitution itself. They very conveniently forget what Shn B.N. Rau pointed out, that 
the British Constitution can be altered but ordinary law. We have always maintained that 
Parliament has an unfettered, unqualified and unabridgeable night to amend the Constitution. 
We do not accept the dogma of the basic structure. Sardar Swarn Singh remarked that some 


Judges have imported the phrase ‘“‘basic structure”. I would not say they have imported it 
sincé it does not exist in any other Constitution, they have invented it. We do not think 
that only a Constituent Assembly can amend the Constitution. Such ideas were put forth 
even at the time of the drafting of the Consttution but were rejected. Indeed, Dr. Ambedkar 
cogently explained that the Constituent Assembly which drafted the Constitution had been 
elected on a limited franchise whereas the Parliament of India under the Constitution would 
be elected on countrywide adult franchise, and surely such Parliament could not be said 
to have lesser power! 


Some criticisms are due to misapprehension. Others are deliberately intended to sow 
mischief. I can say clearly and unambiguously that personal rights are not curtailed; judicial 
power to protect personal rights has not been abolished or curtailed. The President has 
not been invested with the power to amend the Constitution. As the Law Minister explained 
the day before yesterday, the removal of difficulties clause is a routine safeguard. The 
chapter on duties has been introduced not to smother rights but to establish a democratic 
balance. Our Constitution was notable for highlighting Directive Principles along with 
Fundamental] Rights. Neither can flower bear fruit without the performance of duties. The 
asymmetry of one-sided stress on nights will be rectified. 


I should like to assure my friend behind that there is no intention that in the preservation 
of wild life, tribal life should suffer. On the contrary, if forests are better looked after and 
wild life is preserved, there would be far greater opportunities for employment as well as 
a better ecological balance in the whole area which would lead to an improvement in the 
life of the tribal. So far, the feeling of responsibility towards nature was absent all over 
the world. It was not absent in our own ancient books; but came about because we adopted 
the western view point. Now the time has come once more for us to go back to the sources 
of strength of the human race and to try to preserve and revitalise them. 


In my own view, this bringing 1n of duties should have been done when the Constitution 
was drawn up. Other countries have realised the importance of not permitting liberties to 
be turned into licence. For example, the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Germany 
contains a provision to prevent the misuse of the constitutional freedoms. Article 18 reads 
as follows : 


“Whoever abuses the freedom of expression of opinion, in particular the freedom of 
the press, the freedom of teaching, the freedom of assembly the freedom of association, 
the secrecy of mail, post and telecommunications, property, or the nght of asylum in 
order to attack the free democratic basic order, shall forfeit these basic rights.” 


I think that some other constitutions also have some such provision even if not so clearly 
stated. 


We are accused that the clause on anti-national activities is meant to liquidate opposition 
parties. Had the Congress wanted to, it could have done so in 1947; it could have been 
done so at any later date. But nowhere has any party been so tolerant of the Opposition. 
We have not regarded and we do not now regard, anti-Congress or even anti-Government 
activity as anti-national. The question has been raised, what is anti-national. I don’t think 


570 


the answer is very complicated. The reaching of the dismemberment of India is anti- 
national. Inciting communal or provincial hatred and violence is anti-national. Indulging 
in the destruction of national installations is anti-national. We are not against legitimate 
trade union activities. And in fact, the large majority of workers, industrial workers are 
with us. But trade union activity should not be used by a few as a cover for violence, 
desruption and sabotage. 


Something was also said by some Members about misuse of such clauses by a possible 
future non-benign government. One person called it a non—benign government; another 
called 1t an evil government. Does anyone doubt that if such a Government were to come 
to power would it not follow its own path? Do you seriously think that it would be 
concerned with the niceties of the Constitution? This is the same argument that Western 
people used when we had our peaceful nuclear experiment and also on other occasions. 
Those people who want to do something, those who are bent in a particular direction, they 
are going to go in that direction. They are not waiting for Congress to open door for them. 
They will break open the doors if they feel that would help them. 


Indeed they have tried to do so already. What for was all the agitation before 
Emergency? What was it except to throw aside the Constitution, to throw aside the base 
of our democracy? What was it when an hon. Member of this House, an hon. Member of 
the Opposition, said, ‘““We will take politics to the streets’? What was it? Was it we who 
made such a declaration? Therefore, the hon. Members who spoke against the amendments, 
sounded quite plausible in speaking of democracy but their arguments are not so plausible 
when we know what had gone on before, not only on the streets of our cities but nght 
here in this House when people wanted to squat on the ground and indeed did so. I do not 
think that was any part of parliamentary procedure, parliamentary decorum or of democracy 
as our founding fathers envisaged 1. 


Now, I spoke of parties not bothering about the niceties of the Constitution. We know 
that in most developing countries, perhaps in all developing countries, they have not been 
able to keep the sort of open society which we have. I am not blaming them because it is 
for each country to decide what sort of system they should have and how they can solve 
their problems. What I am saying is, that the difference between conditions in affluent 
Western countries and countries which are still struggling to consolidate their freedom and 
build their very foundations, cannot be brushed aside because of any text-book definition. 


The founding fathers of our Constitution and of our country had intended Indian society 
to be secular and socialist. These are not new definitions. They have guided our laws all 
these years. All we are doing now 1s to incorporate them in the Constitution itself for they 
rightly deserve to be mentioned there. The specific mention of this fact in the Preamble 
will provide the frame of reference to all, to our people, to the Government, to the judiciary 


and to the world. 


The purpose of the Bill is to remedy the anomalies that have been long noticed and to 
overcome the obstacles put by economic and political vested interests. The amendments 
we have brought in are more in the nature of renovation. We are not building a new house. 


$71 


But there are people who, unfortunately, do not wish to pull their weight in the proper 
mar&gement of our country. When the initial drafting of the Constitution was completed 
in 1949, Dr. Rajendra Prasad remarked 


“Our Constitution so far has evoked many controversies and raised many questions 
which had deep difference. But we have somehow or other managed to get over them 
all.” 


This modest phrase represents the sincerity and capacity for compromise which marked 
the outlook of our founding fathers. That is the spirit we must all strive to emulate, whether 
we belong to Congress or to other parties. 


I agree with my hon. friend who said that he did not care if he were elected or not. 
Individuals may not matter. In fact, I do not matter. But the future and independence of 
our country do matter. We cannot sacrifice them. We cannot allow them to be threatened 
or be damaged in any way by outside pressure merely because of some people’s view of 
what should be done and, specially, when those are the people who are not concerned with 
the same values just a year or so ago. 


The Constitution of 1949 embodied the spirit of the peaceful revolution of Mahatma 
Gandhi and Jawaharlal Nehru. A peaceful, revolution is a continuing revolution. This Bill 
is not achieving all our aims, but it will carry the Indian revolution forward, making our 
people freer and endowing them, with greater power over their own destiny. The 
Constitution has to face a bigger than the judicial scrutiny and that is the scrutiny of history. 
It was to be capable of meeting the challenges of historical forces. There is something 
greater than all of us and that is the nation and its future. That is the importance of this 
Bill. 


Thank you. 


572 


Bill Relating to Resettlement in Jammu and Kashmir* 


Sir, information has just been received that the Jammu & Kashmir State Legislative 
Assembly has today passed the Jammu & Kashmir Grant of Permit for Resettlement in or 
Permanent Return to the State Bill, 1980 as originally passed by it. As the House is aware, 
this was recently returned by the Governor of Jammu & Kashmir to the State Legislature 
for reconsideration in view of his opinion as to the constitutional infirmities from which it 
suffers. 


Earlier we had told and written to Sheikh Mohammad Abdullah that the Government 
of India would be willing to favourably consider on humanitarian grounds any individual 
cases which he may have in mind for grant of citizenship. 


I understand that the Chief Minister of Jammu and Kashmir has stated in the Assembly 
today that the President has the nght to refer the Bill to the Supreme Court under clause 
(1) of article 143 of the Constitution of India. He is reported to have assured the House 
that the State Guvernment will not implement the Bill until the opinion of the Supreme 
Court has been received. The President has already decided to make a reference to the 
Supreme Court under clause (1) of article 143 of the Constitution for the opinion of the 
Court on the constitutionality of the Bill and the action is now being taken accordingly. 


a ic मर at 2 मर Hi मर ae 


Sir, firstly, I should like to thank the hon. Members for the support which they have 
extended on this important issue. Indeed there are other consequences, not only legal, there 
are political consequences. But as the hon. Member from the National Conference has 
pointed out, there is a history to this. The people of Kashmir have fought bravely, not just 
with words, but with their lives, against aggression and to remain with India. Therefore, 
we must not say or do anything that can weaken their resolve or place them in difficulties 


in this matter. 


A question was asked about the reference to the Government of India. A letter was 
addressed by the Home Minister about the overstay of some people in Kashmir and in 
reply Sheikh Saheb referred to a Private Member’s Bill. We then asked for a copy of the 
Bill. This came to the Home Ministry and the Home Ministry referred it to the Attorney- 


* Making a Statement regarding the decision of the Government to seek the opinion of the Supreme Court on the 
constitutionality of the Jammu and Kashmir Grant of Permit for Resettlement in or Permanent Return to the State 


Bill, 1980, R.S. Deb., 4 October, 1982. cc. 299-322. 


$73 


-General. When the Attorney-General’s opinion on it came, it was sent back to the 
Governor. 


ate ak ak ae ak ak ah ae मर 


I do not have the exact dates.* But in this whole matter, our emphasis was not to create 
a situation of confrontation of any kind. 


we ae ae a ae ae मर ak 


It was sent after the Bill was introduced**. This was a Private Member’s Bill. However 
in this period we kept in contact with the then Chief Minister about it and were trying to 
convince him. It is our information that he separately took legal opinion on his own also 
without reference to us, and this opinion supported that of the Attorney-General. 


The other question was whether the Governor should have returned it to the Assembly 
at this stage. Now, one can have some hind-sight, but I am not prepared to comment on 
exactly who said what because this can unnecessarily create misunderstanding between 
people. But this was not the impression which the Governor got of the opinion of the 
Kashmir Government. His impression was different. He may be right or he may be wrong; 
I do not know. I doubt if the Bill would have been allowed to lapse. I think even if the 
Governor had not retumed it, the matter would probably have been kept alive. 


So far as the statement of some Pakistani writer is concerned, to which some reference 
was made, as you know, such statements are being made all the time. Arms are being 
inducted into Pakistan, sophisticated weapons, about which we have expressed our views 
in no uncertain terms within India, to the Government of Pakistan and to other Governments 
and peoples. I have no hesitation in saying that we stand—we have always stood and we 
stand firmly—for the unity and integrity of India, and that is paramount in all considerations 
and that overrides everything else. Well, I am glad that everybody is with me on this issue, 
but I should like to say that even if I were absolutely alone, I still would stand for the 
unity and integrity of the country. There is no doubt that we must, and I would naturally 
prefer that we act together in this matter, as the honourable Shn Kulkarni said, put down 
all separatist and fisiparous tendencies and movements in whichever part of India they 
may arise. On this question there are no two opinions. I have repeatedly spoken about 
unity, with the Opposition in a kind of national consensus on such problems. I should like 
to assure the honourable Shn Shariq who spoke on behalf of the Nadonal Conference, 
that we do not exaggerate this question. And that is why we have consistently been talking 
in a friendly manner firstly with Sheikh Sahib, Sheikh Mohd. Abdullah, and later with the 
present Chief Minister, Mr. Faroog Abdullah. We are fully aware of the sacrifices of the 
Kashmini people and their sensitivity on this point. But I welcome the statement made by 
the honourable Member that they also believe in the unity and integrity of India and that 


* Replying to Shr L.K. Advani’s question “Can the Prime Minister enlighten us as to when it was done, on what 
date?” | 


** Replying to Shri L.K. Advani's query, “Was it before the Bill was introduced ? or, Was the Attorney-General’s 
opinion sent only after the Bill was introduced?” 


574 हु 


a 


they will not do anything to disturb it. We had also told Sheikh Sahib that any individual 
cases where he considered injustice has been done or who find themselves in difficulty, 
would be considered sympathetically, and I believe that this is possible under our existing 
law. We do not doubt the intention of the people of Kashmir. But we wanted to wam them 
that certain difficulties might arise because of this Bill, which would affect them as well 
as the people of the rest of India. I think that these were all the questions that were asked. 
We know that there are communal organisations in Kashmir as well as in other parts of 
India, and from time to time they do make statements, their Members make statements or 
they try to provoke people, and so on. We have to meet these issues politically ourselves. 
We know that outside influences work not only in our country but in all countries. There 
is constant attempt for people to pul] individuals or groups of people towards themselves 
in different directions. But, as I said, these are questions which we must meet together 
strongly and politically. I should like once more to express my appreciation of this 
Honourable House, of the hon. Members of this House for their standing firmly on this 
question—that is, the unity and integrity of our country—which 18 of paramount 
importance—only by remaining united can we solve the problems of each separate State, 
whether it is a State or whether it is a portion of a State. We know that our people have 
many grievances, and problems of development of such a vast population are gigantic in 
proportion. They can only be solved in conditions of peace and harmony and a sense of 
unity. Only that can give the strength, whichever party is in power. It may be our party in 
one place, or other parties in other places, whichever Government is there. Unless there 1s 
this overall feeling of belonging to a larger unit and each unit helping the other in solving 
the basic problems of the people, we can neither prosper nor strengthen the country nor 
solve the problems. Once more I thank you. 


575 


6 


NATIONAL UNITY AND INTEGRITY 


Shiv Sena* 


Madam Deputy Chairman, I am very glad to see that Members from all sides of the 
House have condemned such separatist activities, tendencies which provoke one community 
against the other, and I am glad that they have all spoken in favour of equal rights for all 
Indian citizens to live and work wherever they might wish to do so. I fully support this 
stand. At the same time I must regret, Madam, that some Members thought it fit to make 
quite unjustifiable and uncalled for reflections of a personal character against our Home 
Minister**. One hon. Member *** has already made the position clear. I think that I am 
fully qualified to make a statement on the Home Minister’s behalf here and to say that he 
does not have anything to do with the Shiv Sena. When my attention was first drawn to 
this matter sometime ago, I talked both to the Home Minister at that time—I do not think 
he was Home Minister, but Defence Minister—and the Chief Minister of ‘Maharashtra. Both 
of them assured me that they would deal very strictly with this movement and would do 
everything possible to protect the living rights and properties of the communities of other 
States and minorities who were living there. | 


I might also say that when I heard of the recent happenings in Orissa, I drew the 
attention of the Chief Minister to this matter, and he has assured me that a meeting was 
held and they have also seen to it that such things should not be allowed. At the same 
time we must remember that when there are so many different types of people, different 
languages and so on, there are bound to be certain economic and social tensions. But if all 
parties agree on these issues, we should attempt to see that these tensions are minimised 
and that the people’s energies are not provoked into such unhealthy and destructive 
channels. Whenever any such tensions occur we should always join together and see that 
we are able to create a better atmosphere and see that no harm 1s done. 


* Replying to a Calling Attention regarding activities of the Shiv Sena. R.S. Deb., 17 August, 1967, cc. 4560-61. 
** Shri Y.B. Chavan. 
*** Shri M.M. Dharia. 


ate ee nea) 


od 


. ees 
v, ans) 22222: 
Bas | SE 
Oe, 20123 air ear Re arate! 
Pea 2222 SK: 20000: 
A पर पट तक ene ES 


ALS 
Se eet a 


x 


oan 
112.0,०,५.० ० 
a 


Language and National Unity‘ 


‘Sir, as many hon. Members have also said, this is not an occasion to raise this topic 
for debate. I have expressed my views many times in this House and on other occasions 
also. There is no consensus in this House at present as you must have seen. It is not that 
the Members of the Congress or other parties are having a difference of opinion but 
something else has come up. The views expressed by Shri Bhupesh Gupta and Shri Anoop 
Singh... should also be considered. 


In our country our brothers and sisters are living in various States and a doubt has 
crept in their minds that we are trying to impose something on them. We should remove 
this doubt. If we want our country to remain united then as Shri Bupesh Gupta has said, 
we have to see as to how we can take the people of various States along with us. 


So far as the question of Hindi is concerned, we all agree with Shri Raj Narayanji. We 
agree that we have to promote Hindi and we also have to promote other languages of 
different States and give them equal importance because people can express their views 
properly in their mother tongue only. Therefore it is necessary for the progress of the country 
that the mother tongue should be promoted. There is no dissension on this point, neither 
from the South nor from Bengal or anywhere in the country. The only point of dissent, as 
Shri Bhupesh Gupta has also stated, is that how it should be implemented. If this debate 
creates discord then neither Hindi nor any other language will be promoted. Now a demand 
has been made. Shri Raj Narayan is more concerned about what 18 happening in the other 
House. The Members of the other House have also been elected from his State and from 
Bihar, Madras, Andhra Pradesh and from other States. They will also express their views 
there and if they have a different opinion then we would come to know. But as far as the 
views expressed in this House are concerned these can certainly be considered. 


The Calling—Attention given by you, to which you wanted to draw our attention, was 
specially regarding the Benaras University.... 


a He मे a मंद of ae मंद ak 


The Education Minister has said that he will give a statement on that. He is ready to 
give a statement even today. I would like to request the hon. Members, and as Shri Bhupesh 


* Speaking during the enquiries regarding the Calling Attention Notices on the agitation against the Official Languages 
(Amendment) Bill, 1967, R.S. Deb., 5 December, 1967, cc. 2547-50. 


t Original speech in Hindi. 


2 
( 


seater 


Gupta has also said, that at present we should not do any such thing as could increase the 
misunderstanding which has cropped in the country and we should not increase it specially 
in Uttar Pradesh and Bihar. I am unable to understand the reason behind the ongoing 
agitation in these States. Both these States are promoting Hindi and doing their work in 
Hindi. 


One more thing I would like to say that we do not want that Hindi should be imposed 
on people without their consent and in the same way we do not want that English should 
be imposed. But English has always been a link language and now we want to change 
that. We want that Hindi or Hindustani should link us together. English should also remain 
here because it links with other nations because English is used when we attend international 
Conferences and meetings. So we want that a third language should be there that should 
link us with other nations. I want to clarify one thing, you should not think that we want 
that English should take the place of Hindi or some other State language. Nobody wants 
that. We only want to promote Hindi but we have to find a proper way to promote it. This 
can be done by the consent of those other States which are demanding more time.... 


Fok मं ek ate ake मर 


*+Mr. Speaker, Sir, I do not want to take more time of the House. I just want to say a 
few words. 


Next to religion, language is the only thing which arouses loyalties and emotions in 
human beings... 


But, the question is : What are the functions of language ? Many Members have said 
here yesterday that language is meant for social conversation, for understanding each other, 
for doing one’s daily routine work, for adding to one’s knowledge and for bringing people 
together. 


Oko मं ae af ak ae ak 


All these are the functions of language. Language is also meant for providing equal 
opportunities to each individual for expressing his thoughts. 


But what are we finding today ? Language is becoming a wall dividing the people 
from each other, and as Shn Acharya Kriplaniji has rightly said, language has become a 
source of conflict and it is really a matter of sadness. Language co-ordinates between 
science and thoughts-it should do so—and thus language should bring unity. Now the 
question is : how should we remove the walls of differences which have developed among 
us ? 


Heke aK ak मंद a PLL. 


* Participating in the combined debate on the Official Languages (Amendment) Bill, 1967 and Resolution regarding 
Languages, L.S. Deb., 12 December, 1967, cc. 641 3-23. 


+ Original speech in Hindi. 


$81 


_ 1118 a matter of consideration that whether the moratorium will break the barriers or 
create some more new barriers.* I agree that it will not check the incidents which are 
happening in the countryside but it will increase too.... 


Let me ask a question. In which country has language developed as a result of politics? 
Why does the English language today occupy the position of a principal language and why 
is it spreading in many countries of the world and has such a high status ? Has English 
developed due to its being official language at White Hall ? Or, did the English poets, 
writers, novelists and also traders, who travelled to the different corners of the world 
develop this language ? Let us not think that a language develops only through official 
work and in the absence of such work it will die out. In our country, our official languages 
were suppressed. It was, therefore, natural that during the freedom movement and after 
that when we became independent our people should have had a particular sentiments for 
their languages and should have been keen to promote them. It is not just a question of 
sentiments only. I agree that it is also important for the country. 


Our friend, Shri Mody has said that we are encouraging poverty. There is no question 
of encouraging poverty. The question is that there are a large number of people in our 
country who due to their poverty and backwardness, did not get the same opportunities 
for education, employment and so many other things which some of us have got. I agree 
that these persons can be educated only through their mother tongue. And it is, therefore, 
necessary that in all the States education should be imparted in the mother tongue only, so 
that those classes of people who till now were denied opportunities for education, could 
be able to receive education and to derive equal benefit from the development of the 
country. 


But how did Hindi come into the picture ? There are some countries which are bilingual, 
Belgium for instance. Switzerland and Yugoslavia have three or four languages each. In 
our country, there are fifteen languages. It is not surprising that we should have so many 
languages, as our country is so much bigger than many other countries. We are now making 
every effort to see that all our languages get a chance to develop, that the people of different 
areas receive education in their own languages, and that the business of a State is also 
conducted in the language of its people. I think there are no two opinions about this. But 
the business of the Centre cannot possibly be conducted in fifteen languages, however, 
dear they may be to us and however great regard we may have for them. It was, therefore, 
felt that one of our languages should serve as a national link, and Hindi was chosen for 
this purpose. 


I am fully aware of the difficulty experienced by those whose mother tongue is not 
Hindi. Some of our South Indian friends have said that Hindi is not a developed language. 
Well, unless people learn it, speak it and help it grow, how will it develop ? We, therefore, 
invite them to lend a helping hand in developing Hindi. A language can develop only 
through constant use, not so much in Government offices, but outside, in everyday life. It 
will grow if more and more people write in it and books of other languages are translated 


* Commenting upon Shri Piloo Mody’s observation : “By moratorium ”. 


into it. We have been somewhat cut off from the rest of the world, because we remained 
unaware of much that was going on in the rest of the world, particularly in the realms of 
science and technology. So long as we remain cut off like this, we will not be able to 
progress, however much we may develop our languages. 


If our languages develop, it is to be welcomed; there is need for their development. 
But I also consider it essential that there should be a language to link us with the outside 
world. If today we want English, it is not as a national language or as a language which 
should take the place of Hindi or Tamil or Bengali or any other regional language. It cannot 
be so, nor is it anybody’s intention that it should be so. But we do think that in today’s 
world the absence of knowledge of a foreign language will weaken us and keep us 
backward. Nowadays even in other countries which have their own languages, the study 
of a foreign language in the schools is made compulsory. There is freedom to choose any 
language, be it English, French, German or any other. But in actual practice we find that 
the majority of the people, be they Russians or of any other nationality, opt for English. 
Here we have an advantage because we already have some knowledge of English and also 
some arrangements for teaching it. These arrangements may not be so good today as they 
were before. The standard of English has fallen, and sometimes the English that is spoken 
- here 1s particularly our own and perhaps may not be clearly understood in any other country. 
But despite all this, English is a link. I remember one or two stories. A boy was learning 
English. His new English teacher had come from England. So he asked the boy : 


‘Shyam, what is your mother-tongue ? 


He replied ‘Hindi, Sir’, then the master remarked ‘it has some words which sound like 
English’. 


That boy was speaking in English; he was not speaking in Hindi. But the master thought 
that the child was speaking some other language which contained few words of English. 
It happens in our country. It gives us a base, which helps us 1n learning that language. We 
have to attend the international Conferences. But it is not only a matter of participating in 
the Conference, because for this purpose translation facility 1s provided in such Conferences, 
but when we meet each other and discuss matters then knowledge of link language is 
necessary because sometimes personal meetings are more helpful than the Conference itself. 
So, we need a link. Just as we need a national link, so also we need an intemational link. 
This does not mean that we need not learn other languages; they are equally important, 
we have also to keep ourselves in touch with them. 


The shape that the language issue has taken in this country is rather strange. Now many 
hon. Members have raised the issue of the unity of our country. For some reasons, rightly 
or wrongly, the people of the South have come to have a suspicion that if Hindi is brought 
in, their jobs will be in jeopardy. This has naturally led to agitations. Shri Vajpayee has 
just now told us that the students of North India are also having such suspicions in their 
minds. Now, we have to find some way of dispelling this fear from their minds. Let us 
meet together and discuss this matter and find a solution for this problem. Now, what is 
the fact ? The fact is that English was continuing; whether we like it or not, English was 


continuing. When we declared Hindi as the official language, the situation changed...By 
the Amendment Bill which we are now introducing, Hindi remains the official language. 
The Bill affects neither the status of Hindi nor its importance. On the contrary, we are 
saying that greater efforts will be made to teach Hindi. An Annual report will be presented 
to Lok Sabha, and the House will be able to see how the work progresses and what its 
flaws are. Persons belonging to non-Hindi-speaking areas are faced with this problem : 
how will they fit into the new picture that will be evolved as a result of the progressive 
learning of Hindi and the gradual increase in the quantum of work to be transacted in Hindi 
? A solution was found according to which arrangements could be made for teaching Hindi 
to those who did not know Hindi and for providing translations, so that no one felt any 
difficulty. You all know that when such a compromise solution is evolved, it meets with 
allround opposition as it does not satisfy any of the groups completely. In an effort to reach 
a compromise, it becomes necessary to take some points from both sides. 


Everybody thinks that this is not the right thing. One is helpless in this because 
everybody’s demands cannot be met in full. What can be done is that a solution may be 
found which might partly meet the points of view of all. I shall repeat what I have said 
several times before, that we have to keep the unity of the country in mind. At present 
there are seven States which want to have an opportunity to learn Hindi but are against 
any haste being shown in this matter. ‘Imposition’ is not my word but theirs. There are 
seven States that do not want Hindi to be imposed on them. 


2 गंध मं 2 ok ak ak मंद 


Whatever be their number-even if it is one—we do not want to impose anything on 
anyone. They have as much right as others have. There is no doubt that those who are in a 
majority have a slightly greater responsibility in this matter. The bigger man has 
correspondingly the greater responsibility, because nobody should feel that any person or 
group is being suppressed. I am glad that our South Indian brethren say that they will learn 
Hindi and that they should be given an opportunity to do so. 


Now, I believe that this marks an advance from their previous stand and this is good 
for Hindi. I also agree that we have lost some ground. Some people think that we can 
decide this issue on the streets and not in this House. Shri Vajpayeeji has said that nobody 
incites the children. Perhaps it may be true but I want to remind you that some Ministers 
of the political parties have also participated in this issue.... 


WK मेष मर aK a मर ai मर afc 


Whether it is good or bad, I am only expressing my views and you* can also do the 
same. I think that this is a very dangerous situation for our country that such an issue be 
brought to the streets. If some people think that they should destroy the vehicles of those 
coming from South-as has been done; or they should be beaten-I do not know whether 
they were beaten or not.... 


मंध afc ok ae afc मं afc afc मं 


* Shri Rabi Ray. 


584 मा 


If all this has happened, then I would like to ask you whether they would like to learn 
Hindi ? They will never like to learn Hindi. 


You have said that nobody was hurt, but we know-one of our sisters was attacked, and 
her ten years old girl was also attacked and her car was damaged. The mother of that girl 
likes Hindi; she has always supported and spoken in favour of Hindi; she was attacked.... 


ak ae मं a ae ak He ek 


It is one thing to demonstrate and to burn houses, buses, cars and injure people is 
another thing.... 


ate ak ak 2 ak ak foto 


Because of this, I can see that the interest in learning Hindi is not increasing among 
the people but it 1s decreasing. I have only one aim. My aim is to adopt a policy which 
will help in forging a common link. There are some parties in the country, and in this House, 
who do not want a common link, and who say that all the languages should be allowed to 
function. This 1s dangerous. If it happens, the country will be Balkanized and its unity 
destroyed. That is why we want to make Hindi a connecting link, and that is why we want 
Hindi to progress. It, therefore, pains me when I find anyone taking a step or doing 
something which interferes with the progress of Hindi and weakens its utility and 
acceptance as a link language for the people of India. 


ACR ak ak 2k ak 


Tam very happy that one of the leaders of Jan Sangh party has also expressed his views 
and condemned this violence. I am happy that leaders of the stature of Shri Jayaprakash 
Narayan and Shri Vinoba Bhave have also made statements against the use of violence by 
language agitators and also a procession was taken to their house to discuss this matter or 
something else. 


ka ae 2k मं मै: मै 


A surprising thing is that many of our students, who are disfiguring signboards and 
are agitating against English, are conducting this propaganda in English, not in Hindi. One 
of our Ministers told me that when the students spoke to him in English, he constantly 
went on replying in Hindi, but they went on talking in English. 


ae ae मर ak मर मु ae अर मर 


We want people of other countries to visit our country. We want tourists to feel welcome 
in our country. But agitations, like the one for disfiguring English signboards, are not going 
to be of any help. I appeal to you all, who by forcefully expressing their sentiments have 
lightened their hearts, to accept this Bill in the interest of the unity of this country and 
then let us see how can we all contribute to the progress of Hindi language. 


aie ae 3h ac aie afc afc 3c afc 


peer Pe IO OR I DT LR at BOE eee जरा sf ae BPs on (०4 रद गा) 
Se CR: 0200 20007 CCE 6:68 2020 Ae en cannon 27227 


a 
Se ee 


०२:०८ 23%: 


aren 

722 
cra 
‘as 


22222 


22222 ५ 


Se 
20270: 20077: 
Senet 

eS 


S 
०५०5 
EARLS 


2222 
4S 


ERS NS 
SoS SANS 


$85 


The passage of this Bill is necessary to remove all apprehensions from the minds of 
the pgople of the South and of other non-Hindi-speaking regions.... We have been giving 
them assurances for the last so many years, so first of all we have to remove all these 
apprehensions. We cannot postpone this matter any further. After we have done this, we 
can all sit together to sort out various other problems. These problems are not going to be 
solved by raising slogans. Concrete steps will be necessary to see that all our countrymen 
are able to learn Hindi and we are able to make this language a link amongst ourselves.... 


Our Foremost Concern—Unity and Integrity* 


Mr. Speaker, Sir, communal incidents which in recent months have marred our national 
life in certain parts of the country, have caused deep distress as well as anxiety to this 
- House, and to all right thinking people in the country. 


Secularism and democracy are the twin pillars of our State, the very foundations of 
our society. From time immemorial, the vast majority of our people are wedded to the 
concepts of secularism, religious tolerance, peace and humanity. It is understandable that 
they should feel outraged and deeply disturbed at the aberrations which appear here and 
_ there and afflict small sections of society, and which arouse or exploit communal passions 
or promote disharmony, tension and violence. It is a matter for satisfaction that even in 
areas where trouble has occurred, the general public at large, whether belonging to one 
community or another, has lived in a state of complete harmony and peace. Indeed, there 
have been many instances in which people of one community have saved the lives and 
property of their fellow-citizens of another community. 


The incidents which have occurred should, therefore, arouse the indignant disapproval 
of our people. I am sure this House will deplore and condemn these incidents and join me 
in conveying its sympathy to those who have been the unfortunate sufferers of such violence 
and crime at the hands of misguided elements. 


As the House is aware, Government have recently appointed a Commission to go into 
these incidents. The object of the Commission will be to ascertain the causes which led to 
them and to recommend measures to prevent recurrence of such disorders in future. 


The House is also aware that it has been recently decided to reconstitute the National 
Integration Council. I have invited leaders of various parties in Parliament and outside to 
join the Council, so that we can all sit together and deliberate over the problems posed by 
communalism, and linguistic and regional tensions. Government look forward to the 
constructive co-operation of all political parties and indeed, of all leaders of society to 


help in this task. 


India has the privilege of being the world’s largest composite society, and the home of 
many great and ancient faiths. Communalism is an evil which divides man and fragments 
society; it does against our very genus and cultural heritage. It holds a threat to the Unity 
and integrity of our country which must be our foremost concern. 


* Statement regarding Communal Harmony, LS. Deb., 22 December, 1967, cc. 9445-46. 


§87 


~ Mr. Speaker, Sir, the citizenship of India is a shared citizenship. Danger to even one 
single citizen, to whatever community, caste, religion or.linguistic group he may belong, 
is a danger to all of us and, what is worse, it demeans us all. I am sure the House will join 
me in an appeal to the people of our country to come forward and work for solidarity and 
common national purpose. Every man, woman and child should be able to tread on Indian 
earth without fear and with pride of heart in belonging to this great motherland. 


Communal Riots* 


...What has happened in Bhiwandi or what has happened in other riots is equally sad 
and deplorable. And it 18 not something for which any of us would like to shirk 
responsibility. I certainly do not shirk it. But I think we must also face facts. What begins 
these riots? This was the question asked by Shri Atal Bihari Vajpayee. Is it a little body 
who threw a stone who begins the riot ? Is it the person who might do the first killing 
who begins the riot ? Or is it the atmosphere that is spread by speeches of the type which 
we heard here today? It is this atmosphere which starts all these disturbances. 


And this is not a new thing. It is not something that has happened today for the first 
time. Is it a coincidence that when people who belong to the RSS or the Jan Sangh go 
somewhere, soon afterwards, there is riot in or close to that place? It may be that it is a 
coincidence, I do not know, but to me and to all other people who have watched this 
situation, it seems a very strange coincidence. 1 think that hon. Members are well advised 
to try and examine this situation and find out why this should happen. 


It is very easy to blame somebody. It may be that the situation could have been dealt 
in a better way. I do not say that it could not have been. I have not studied it, and that is 
the main reason why I am going there. It is possible that something more could have been 
done. There is hardly any situation in the world where you could not have taken better 
precautions or done more. I do not know what advance notice the Government had. 


ak 2k i a ak ak मर 


Much time was spent on speaking on Shivaji. There is nobody in this House. I would 
say, perhaps there is nobody in the country who does not have respect for Shivaji. But to 
use his name in order to incite people to communalism is not doing any justice to the 


memory of Shivaji. 


ae मंद मंद ae मंद मं ae मंद ok 


Communalism, whether it is Hindu or Muslim or Sikh or by any other community is 
deplorable. And it is not true to say that we have not deplored it when it has taken place 
or that we have not deplored it or spoken about it strongly, when any Muslim organisation 
or Muslim individual has said something which is capable of inciting people or leading to 


* Participating in a discussion regarding the situation arising out of communal disturbances in the country, LS. Deb., 
14 May, 1970, cc. 322-31. 


589 


any kind of outbreak or outburst. But that does not mean that we can condone what a 
member of the majority community does. As I have said on a previous occasion, anywhere 
where people are in a majority, they have a special responsibility. They are not merely 
one set of people there; they have a very special responsibility. Anywhere, where some 
people are stronger, they do have a responsibility towards the weaker section. In our country, 
in most places, the Hindus are in a majority, and therefore, they do have a responsibility 
towards the Muslims, the Christians, and towards whoever else may be in a minority. But 
in those sections where the others are in a majority—it may be that the Sikhs are in a 
majority in a certain place—they have a responsibility to the other minorities; 1 may be 
Hindu or Muslim or something else. Similarly in Kashmir, the Muslims are in a majority; 
certainly, it is their responsibility to see that the small number of Hindus who live there 
can live in peace and security. So, these brave sounding words, announcing that the Hindus 
are not going to stand for this and so on is merely a way of inciting people. This is what 
has poisoned the atmosphere of this country. Now, we know that some of these thoughts, 
some of these kinds of thoughts do lurk in people, in the minds of some people. The people 
are not perfect and there are such people, but all responsible and right thinking people 
must see how they can curb this tendency and how they can pacify such an atmosphere 
like this. If any such incident takes place, we must bend all our energies to see how we 
can help the people who are affected, how we can see that in future such a thing does not 
happen. But to use this occasion merely to launch attacks on people, to say things that 
will not only hurt the feelings of minority communities but will egg on the majority 
community in other places, to try and create some similar incidents 1s most improper. 


We all know that most of these incidents are very small to start with. Why do they 
assume such large proportions? I was glad to hear Shri Vajpayee’s remark that he himself 
said in Ahmedabad that people should not take the law into their hands. But to me at least, 
the rest of his speech appeared as if he himself was encouraging just that. “We are not 
going to stand by.’ What does it mean? It means ‘that we will take the law into our hands, 
and take action. We have to take action.’ What else was it ? 


This was the meaning, as far as I could make out from speech.* If he did not mean 
this, | hope he will now clarify the position and tell people not to do so, and see that his 
own people do not do so. 


ae mE a ae a me ae मं 


As I said, Shri Vajpayee did no great justice to the memory of Shivaji, but he did even 
less justice to our own old philosophy, our traditions and the very great heritage of this 
country, because our heritage is certainly not one which tramples on the nghts of minorities. 
On the contrary, from time immemorial, India has opened her doors to all those who 
suffered in their countries; whether they belonged to different religions, different languages, 
different customs, we have opened our doors and given them shelter in the remote past. 
And even today, we attempt to do it... 


* Responding to Shri Atal Bihari Vajpayee’s observation, “I did not say that”. 


So the hon. Member is giving an entirely erroneous view of India to all the world. 
This is another great disservice to this country that in front of the world he parades as our 
philosophy and our tradition, ideas which in effect, are contrary to that tradition. 


ake af af ee ah ah ae ae 


I am not criticising his* party as a party, but merely two main aspects of it: one, the 
communal aspect and second, which is even more dangerous, the deliberate distortion of 
history, which is being done. Books are being written and published changing our known 
history. This is extremely dangerous. 


2k मे a af ak ae ek 


I am talking about a situation; what I am saying goes much deeper than what happened 
merely in Bhiwandi or Jalgaon or Ahmedabad. All these things form part of an atmosphere 
that 1s created. This is what I am trying to say, and I think it is extremely important that 
all members of Parliament, as indeed all Indian citizens, think about these things far more 
deeply. You will be given all the facts about this. Chavanji has given the facts as known 
on the first day, and Shuklaji will give you whatever has come to our knowledge since 
then. But it is time for us not to regard these happenings merely as isolated incidents that 
take place, incidents which we debate. It is time to realize that it is this kind of communal 
thinking, these speeches and articles which come out in newspapers which are creating 
this atmosphere. ... 


a Kc 2k ae अप a ae ak मं 


People have suffered and we have to see firstly what relief has to be given immediately 
and what we can do on a slightly long term basis. There is already an enquiry going on 
and it will come to its conclusions but I admit that I do not know how much such enquiries 
help. Any way, it is necessary to have them and I am glad that there is one. Now, apart 
from the question of relief and so on, we must all get together and see how we can prevent 
this kind of atmosphere growing, how we can go down to the people, village by village 
and mohalla by mohalla to create that type of neighbourly feeling which in the last analysis 
is the only protection. The Police can help in a particular situation but ultimately it is only 
one’s neighbours who can be of real help. It is only the atmosphere in the country that can 
prevent this kind of rioting and senseless attacks on people. It is not just a question of 
whether some body threw a stone, why should not people get angry? That is where you 
judge the maturity of people. If people had done something wrong, by all means catch the 
guilty. But you do not catch the guilty. In fact the guilty are the first to get away and it is 
only the innocent who are looted and murdered. 


* Shri Atal Bihari Vajpayee. 


591 


Pa A Oe Nana NCEP TNE NAR ENE ata 
7777 a ee ea TNT EER RI CREE EET aa 
RRR Rie ane Rea SEN 
DT ey Catala a 


Request from Tamil Nadu for a Separate Standard* 


Now, as has been very clearly pointed out, the question is not of the National Flag. 
Whether it is the D.M.K. Government or any other Government of any State or any party 
in this country, there 1s no question that the National Flag is supreme and remains the only 
National Flag for the entire country, from Kashmir to Kanyakumari, from the eastern-most 
area to the western-most area. There is no doubt cast, on this either by the D.M.K. Chief 
Minister, who has written to me, or by anybody else. Now, the question was whether they 
should have a separate standard. 


4k मर a ok ak ae मंध मर 


There is a distinction.** Each State in our country has a separate emblem. 
(Interruptions). This may be right or not. I am not saying that Tamil Nadu have made a 
right demand. I am saying that they did not ask for a flag and there is no point in repeating 
that they did. We do have many different, separate standards. The Princes have their flags, 
the regiments have theirs, and Governors have theirs. We have this situation. 


ate मे ak ae मर ae HHO 


When the letter was received, as the hon. Members know, usually we first try to get 
all information and, therefore, the Home Ministry tried to get information about the practice 
in other countries. It was found that in some Federal States, for instance, the U.S.A.— it 1s 
only one example, but there are many others—the different States do have separate flags 
which in no way takes away from the importance of the National Flag which is above all 
State flags. I have sent a reply to the Chief Minister and the reply is that this matter has 
wider implications than merely those in Tamil Nadu, and that knowing the national feelings 
on this matter, I would like to discuss it with the Chief Ministers. Since there are different 
parties and different Governments in our country, we have made it a practice that whenever 
there 1s controversial matter or demand—not necessarily about a standard or a flag, but 
even about anything else—we do not normally say 1४०" straight away. We always try to 
talk to the person so that they themselves realise what the situation is and may agree not 
to pursue the matter. There have been disagreements and differences of points of view 
with other State Governments on some matters. Therefore, it is always better to talk about 
a matter, rather than do it in a manner which may create a tense Centre-State situation. 


2 ak He ok मं मैप मै मं 


* Replying to the questions on Minister's statement in response to a Calling Attention regarding the request of the 
Tamil Nadu Government for a separate Flag, R.S. Deb., 25 August, 1970, cc. 127-48. 


** Replying to Shri S.N. Mishra’s remark : “What is the distinction between the two?” 


ee 
nt 


Ss 
4 5222 
2222: 
4 AP) 
55225 : 
Re 
228 
he Pee 
22 eh 225 
by 
Ocenia 
22%0:5 
. 
5५४० 
era 


ae 


£2, 
2 1 
ene 
el 
Pac) 


SS 


न 


No, I did not say that we should follow their example.*I just gave the information as 
an instance, that there were such flags not only in the United States but also in other 
countries of the world. This does not mean that we have to follow any other pattern. We 
have made our own pattern and wherever a new question arises, we have to find an answer 
according to our wishes and what we consider to be best for our country. That was by the 
way. The date of the Chief Minister’s letter was, I think, given in the statement. The letter 
came sometime in June. I replied just a day or so before the Calling Attention in the other 
House, t.e., in August of this year. 


oe ek a fe 2k 2 OK 


I do not discern any question in what the hon. Member** has said. But I would certainly 
like to assure the House, what the House already knows, that I am myself against any 
separatist tendency, whether it is on the grounds of language, State, religion or caste. Any 
move which weakens the country should be resisted. But we must not also exaggerate 
certain things. As I said, we have to take a decision taking into consideration the views 
not only of the Chief Ministers but also others, and as such, the views of the hon. Members, 
I am sure, may also have some effect on Tamil Nadu. 


aK भर और ae 3c और afc ai aie 


I think the hon. Member has made the same point to which I have replied to some 
extent, that this standard or pennant, whatever it is, may have the same place or may replace 
our national flag***. As I said earlier, this is not their intention so far as we have been 
able to gather. I have also already assured the House that nothing will be done or can be 
accepted which in any way will affect the unity of the country. At the same time, I must 
say that we should give the people of India greater credit than we sometimes do. There is 
a very strong basic unity amongst all the people of India and we have seen that at all times 
of crisis, regardless of other differences, this unity has come to the fore and has strengthened 
Our nation. 


2 मंद मं af 3 मं a मंद ak 


The hon. Member**** has made a good suggestion. It is our view also that we should 
discuss this matter not only with the Chief Ministers, but with different parties in any forum 
where these people can be present. It 1s our view and I have expressed it in the other House 
that while we discuss this, we should consider other questions like separate flags for 
Governors and so on. 


मं 2k oe मं ae ae मं 


* Replying to Dr. Bhai Mahavir's remarks : “’...1 would also like to know whether we are going to be considered a 
federal Government like the United States and we are to follow their example in this respect.” 
** Shri A.G. Kulkarni. 
*** Shri K.L.N. Prasad. 
«ee Shri N.R. Muniswamy. 


593 


_ [think most of these questions have been replied to*.But since the hon. Member has 
raised them again, I will answer. It is true that the President and the Governors have separate 
standards. 


As far as the Corporations are concemed, I cannot say whether all of them have separate 
flags or not. 


ae गंध ae ae मंध a a a ak 


The Madras Corporation may have one**. But, whether the other Corporations in India 
also have them, I do not know. This is also true, as I said, about other countries. I do not 
have the list of countries now. I have mentioned the USA, Switzerland, etc. 


me Oe कं a he a के कं के 


I think, in the U.S.S.R. also. But, I am not absolutely sure. 


fe मंद के a ak ak ate 2h मं 


Now, about every town, I am afraid I do not have the information here.*** But, as far 
as the motives of other parties are concerned, 1 will leave it to the House to judge. It is 
not for me to pass judgement and it is not only on this occasion, but on many occasions 
such things happen. But it is true, as the hon. Member has said, that the intention is not to 
replace the National Flag, but something that can be used on those occasions when the 
National Flag is not used. For instance, the normal rules are that the National Flag should 
not fly over the residences of Ministers or anybody except on Independence Day and the 
Republic Day and other such national holidays. Now, the Tamil Nadu Government suggests 
that on those days, they will have the National Flag; but on the days when the National 
Flag is not allowed to fly on private residences, their standards should fly but on offices 
and Government buildings, the National Flag will remain as elsewhere. 


The other places where they want to use this standard are the motor cars of State 
Ministers. There is no law about this but it is understood that Ministers should try not to 
use flags, except when on tour. Hence the Chief Minister, Tamil Nadu suggested that their 
Ministers could use their emblem. 


About the other point, whether there is a separate standard, whether of a regiment or 
of a State in other countries, they do have the National Flag. I think, on the top right hand 
corner—but I am not absolutely sure—and they have their emblem on the other side. 


ae oe मर aK मर ae me ae ah 


* Replying to Shri Thillai Villalan who inter-alia asked : ‘Are the President, the Governors and the Army officials 
having separate standards or not ? ... Is every Corporation in our country having a separate standard or not ... 7” 
** Replying to Shri Thillai Villalan’s remark : ‘The Madras Corporation is having.” 


*** Replying to Shri Thillai Villalan’s other questions : ‘‘...Even in the State, is every town having a separate standard 
or not ? Is not our hon. Chief Minister, Shri Karunanidhi demanding only a separate State Standard and not a 
separate national flag ?....” ' 


Sir, we accepted the National Flag in the Constituent—Assembly. I don’t think that the 
Constitution as such-mentions this subject so far as I know.* But the question is that we 
have all to live together. We are all parts of this country. Therefore, we must try and work 
in such a way as to make this living together easier and more peaceful. I personally feel 
that it was good for the Government of Tamil Nadu to write to us when they thought of 
such a statement. If there is a feeling in the country that this is not a goot thing, then I 
think we should all express our views about it, and I think the Tamil Nadu Government 
may themselves change their mind about it. 


ea ak ah af और ae ae मर 


I did not make any analogy between the two Governments**. In the other House, either 
I was asked a specific question about this matter, or a statement was made that even in 
the U.S.A. there were no separate flags. It was in this context that I made this statement. 


So far as Rashtrapati Bhavan is concerned. I have my own personal opinion. I agree 
with the hon. Member*** that the National Flag should fly there. That is why I said that 
“we were taking this matter up with the President and with the Governors and other people, 
and we hope that a decision will be taken very soon. 


mc ak ae He मं: ae Me a ac 


I have no hesitation in giving a categorical answer to the last part of the hon. Member’s 
question****. I personally do not think that there is any such motive. In the Constitution 
and in Parliament we have made it very clear that no part of India can secede from the 
country. So that question really does not arise. 


Now the hon. Member made a remark about the national flag being in a comer. That 
is the accepted practice in all such standards that you have the national flag in the right 
hand corner and the other emblem or whatever it is occupies the Central Place or the other 
side. 


ae मं a ok ak ak a 9k 


* Replaying to Shri A.P. Chatterjee who inter-alia said, “... the States certainly have every right to have a flag 
constitutionally and also otherwise”. 
** Replying to Shri L.K. Advani’s remarks: “...[ am sorry to state that an analogy should have been drawn between 
the United States and this federation of ours. There is no analogy whatsoever, there can be no more ill-conceived 
an analogy than this between the United States and India....” 


*** Shri L.K. Advani. 

**** Replying to Shri R.T. Parthasarathy’s remarks: “...may I ask... whether this demand for a separate flag... by the 
Tamil Nadu Chief Minister, by relegating to the comer the National Flag, the demand for a separate flag and a 
bigger emblem of a Gopuram there that has been predicted in the design, whether this is tantamount to demanding 
sovereign status for Tamil Nadu and whether this move is an ingenious move, which will ultimately end as the 
forerunner for separation from the Indian Union...” 


595 


"I fully appreciate the hon. Member’s deep concern and I can assure him that 80 far 85 
the National Flag and the Anthem are concemed, nothing can be permitted which will in 
any way bring down their importance, because they are supreme, but I do not think that 
question really comes in”. 


afc aie और Me aft मं afc he ae 


I think that the demand is only to fly the standard on the cars of Ministers and at their 
residences**. Not another flag, but their standard. The National Flag remains on all official 
buildings and whenever it is allowed to be flown on residences, at that time also, it will 
be the National Flag. This is the position. 


ae भर ak sok मर ek ak 


I have made it clear that Tamil Nadu has asked for a separate standard, not an emblem 
because they already have an emblem. They want a separate standard. There will be the 
National Flag in the right hand comer and a Gopuram which is their emblem on the left 


hand. 


ak ok मं a ae ak ae मे 


An emblem cannot take the place of the National Flag***. It would be used on places 
or occasions where the National Flag would not normally fly. 


a ak a me भर मं a he 3 


It will be flown on the private residences and cars of the Ministers on those occasions 
when they are not allowed to fly the National Flag. On occasions such as Independence 
Day or the Republic Day only the National Flag will fly. 


te 3k मर aK a मर ae ae मं 


I have already stated that this matter will be considered in all its aspects and in its 
wider implications. This is what I have written to the Chief Minister also. Here I want to 
correct myself. I believe I said that the “standard” is put on the right hand corner. But I 
am told that it is on the upper left hand corner****. 


* Responding to Shri M.M. Dharia’s observations: “...I would like to appeal to the hon. Prime Minister to use her 
good offices so that the National Anthem and the National Flag remain the same in the whole country and that 
no effort to undermine them in the name of standard will be allowed.” 

** Replying to the points raised by Shri A.D. Mani. 
*** Replying to Shri Mahavir Tyagi’s remark : “ ‘Standard’ actually means flag.” 
**** The Prime Minister, Smt. Indira Gandhi gave identical replies to the questions asked by Members in the Lok 
Sabha on the statement made by the Minister of State in the Ministry of Home Affairs in response to a Calling 
Attention on the same subject (LS. Deb., 20 August, 1970, cc. 222-41). 


596 


Promoting National Integration* 


Mr. Deputy-Speaker, Sir, the Home Ministry touches many spheres of national activity. 
So, this Debate naturally is an important one and ranges over many areas. 


Hon. Members have touched on many points. They have drawn attention to many 
defects and shortcomings. 


Sir, 10 One is more conscious than I, that in a country of this size and diversity, and 
with our background of feudalism and colonialism, our problems are bound to be of 
immense magnitude. With development some problems are solved and others are created. 
Even societies which are regarded as affluent and stable are not immune from trouble, 
from unrest and even the growth of violence. 


So, none of the questions is peculiar to our country. We know that rapid urbanisation 
has increased crime and violence in other countries. 


I hope hon. Members will not think that I am trying to minimise our own duties or 
responsibilities, of which I am deeply conscious. But, I should like the honourable House 
to see our problems in perspective and not to forget that these are not normal times for us. 


Our programmes and the recent elections to which many hon. Members have referred 
aroused expectations of change. But, first when we were poised for rapid advance in many 
directions, we have been overtaken by the tragic events on our Eastern border which have 
imposed a very severe strain on our entire administration. 


Therefore, areas of hope and despair do exist side by side; and, when despair is 
exploited to propagate violence, this 1s bound to be a matter of concern. 


I know that violence has many aspects and emerges from different roots. As I have 
said, the problem is not peculiar to India. Also, we are a developing society and 
development produces its own tensions and other difficulties. 


We do not believe that the police is the answer to each situation or that violence can 
be met only by counter violence. On the contrary, to the extent that the socio-economic 
causes of violence in India can be identified and removed, we are trying our utmost to do 
so. But when violence is deliberately engineered, then it falls into another category, and 


* While replying to the debate on the Demands for Grants, Ministry of Home Affairs, 1971-72, L.S. Deb., 
24 June, 1971, cc. 243-56. 


$97 


we are determined to meet the threat with all the strength at our command, and in this, the 
forcés of law and order have to assert themselves. If certain political groups persist in the 
misguided and dangerous course which they have adopted, then the augmentation of the 
police strength to meet their challenge becomes essential. 


ae OR मु a मंध मर me ak 


It is unfortunate that the hon. Member opposite and some parties think that we are 
against them. I have made ii clear on all possible occasions that we are not against any 
particular party. But I do think that we should all look at the national aims. I presume that 
we are all committed to democracy, which implies certain methods of functioning and 
assumes the equality of rights of all citizens. So far as I can see, there is no middle way 
between bringing about social and political changes through democratic functioning on 
the one side and violence on the other. It is only if violence replace the settlement of issues 
by discussion and persuasion that we have to draw a line and appeal to all parties, groups 
and individuals to seriously consider if they really think that something can be achieved 
in our country by resorting to violence. Every political party, therefore, needs to examine 
seriously whether its faith in democracy is a durable one and not a mere tactic to undermine 
democracy through violence means. Can all parties represented in Parliament not join 
together to combat this violence and those who believe in it, instead of trying to battle 
amongst ourselves, each blaming the other ? 


Many Members were concerned about the increase in the Police budget since 1950. 
This increase is not due to law and order duties alone. Since the early sixties, the police 
which includes forces such as the Border Security Force have been called upon to shoulder 
important responsibilities along with our defence forces to safeguard our borders. More 
than half the increase is for such forces. 


There has also been an increase in the strength of the CRP. This is necessary because 
of the growing demand from the State Government themselves for additional] forces for 
internal security and law and order duties. Even at present, the bulk force has been placed 
at the disposal of the State Governments for this purpose and at their own request. The 
CRP is not being used for repression. It is developed to safeguard the lives of people and 
their homes and to safeguard public property. I seriously protest against the malicious 
compaign to denigrate the CRP. I know, and I have acknowledged in the House on earlier 
occasions also that there have been cases where members of the CRP or of the police has 
misbehaved or have gone beyond what they should have done, and wherever our attention 
has been drawn, we have tried to deal with the situation.... 


aft गंध अं मेष और भर ae 2c के 


But generalised allegations which are sometimes made by the hon. Members opposite 
do not help the situation or solve any problem. 


I myself am very much concerned with the manner of functioning of the police’ and 
we are trying to modernise their training and the equipment they use so that the force can 


become qualitatively and professionally better. We want our services to regard themselves 
as servants and friends of the people. We want to go into all aspects of the training, not 
only of the police, but of other public administrators so as to give them such an outlook in 
their dealings with the people. 


Law and order is not an isolated subject; it is very much linked with economic and 
social problems and the conditions of the people. I believe that authority can best be wielded 
in a spirit of understanding and co-operation. But this also has to be two sided; the police 
also need the co-operation of the people, and if they are always going to be regarded as 
enemies of the people, that will make it more difficult for them to behave as they should, 
consistently with sympathy and friendship for all people. This is part of the difficulty, as 
some Members have noticed, which we are facing in West Bengal. 


af 4 कं oa af ete 


In a debate of this kind, it is natural that much attention should be paid to the relations 
between the Central Government and the State Governments. I think we all agree that the 
States and the Centre form part of a single entity, the unity of India. I do not think anyone 
is really serious when he suggests any kind of crisis of confidence between the Centre 
and the States. Of course, problems and differences do arise from time to time, but there 
is no problem which cannot be solved through discussion, consultation and adjustment. 


We have had Government of various hues and political persuasions in different States. 
I have had the fullest co-operation—I must express my appreciation of this—from all the 
Chief Ministers, and I certainly hope that they feel the same about the Centre. We have 
always done whatever we could to help them in so far as it lay within our power. 


As I have mentioned on earlier occasions, much of the dispute 1s with regard to the 
allocation of finance, and as we have extremely limited resources, it is not really within 
our hands to increase State allocations. While on the one hand almost every State would 
like to have more financial powers, on the other, on many occasions they find it convenient 
to ask the Centre to take over something because they cannot afford to complete a particular 
project or they would like us to undertake another programme or they have dispute with a 
neighbouring State and so on. 


So all these things have to be gone into very thoroughly. I do not know if any useful 
purpose will be served by freezing the relationship between the Centre and the State into 
any rigid statutory enactment or even institutional devices. Since even the most careful 
thought now cannot possibly foresees every problem that could arise in the future. That is 
why, a certain flexibility is always helpful in any human relation rather than very set and 


rigid patterns. 


Many suggestions and schemes have been put forward in the name of better Centre- 
State relations. It is for the hon. House, and of course for all the Chief Ministers of States, 
to consider whether these will help in achieving closer co-operation between the Centre 
and the States or whether they will create new points of conflict, whether they will help 
in strengthening the unity of the country or in encouraging divisive tendencies. Whatever 


problems there are or may arise in future can be solved not by confrontation and argument, 
but.by a joint attempt at finding satisfactory solutions. Naturally, no solution can satisfy 
everybody, but our attempt should always be to see what will serve the larger good. 
Whenever any such question about the States rises, the emotions of the people are easily 
aroused especially in the name of language or of religion or of border disputes or the magic 
that is attached to separate Statehood. There is a political aspect to most of these questions, 
but this can be exploited or used only if there are genuine economic and other grievances, 
and in many of the questions which have been raised here, the main problem in all our 
backward areas is an economic one, that of development. We have been making efforts in 
this direction and trying to do whatever is possible to see that where there has been any 
negligence or delay in development this should be made up. Reference was naturally made 
_ to Telengana and here also we are making efforts and trying to involve the people in the 
process of socio-economic change. There is a feeling that this sense of participation should 
be further strengthened. We have been exchanging views with various people. I agree that 
all these disputes which exist in this area or in other area should be speedily solved. 


Some Members spoke with understandable passion about the communal tension which 
comes up from time to time and about which we all feel very strongly. The National 
Integration Council was meant to promote integration and cohesiveness in our social- 
political structure and to look into the problems of the minorities as well as of any deprived 
section such as the Harijans. When the Council met in Srinagar some years ago, the meeting 
was over-shadowed by the communal riots which had taken place just before. So, although 
we mentioned all the different aspects of the Council’s work, our efforts were confined to 
dealing with communalism in its narrower sense, that is communal violence. We know 
that tensions in society have many origins—cultural, economic and social. These have to 
be resolved. We should not allow them to errupt in ugliness and violence. The well-being 
and satisfaction of the minorities should be our very special concern. That is why we 
specially mentioned this in our election manifesto and on other occasions, and these 
commitments must be fulfilled. One way of doing this is broadening the whole concept of 
national integration. For this purpose appropriate machinery at the governmental level 1s 
being considered, and one of the main functions of this machinery will be to look into the 
special problems and interest of the minorities, and although I say minontis, as I mentioned 
earlier, when the Council was formed we had intended it to cover the whole sphere of the 
rights of Indian citizen, of Harijans and so on, even though there are separate bodies which 
look after them. 


ae ak मर ae aie 2k ae nh a 


Well, it is not true that the years were entirely wasted because something has been 
done, and I hope that now the effort will be speeded up*. We have been looking into the 
whole question, for instance, of the services. Many of these matters do not come out in 
the open, but this does not mean that they are being ignored. They are being looked into. 
They were not looked into by the National Integration Council, but they are being looked 


* Responding to Shri Shyamnandan Mishra’s remark: ‘These are almost wasted years”. 


into by the Home Ministry. But I agree that more can be done and more should be done. 
We will do more. Part of this is the question of the Urdu language. Here also I have made 
my views very clear. I have discussed this matter with some Chief Ministers and so far as 
the Chief Minister of U.P., for instance, is concerned, he has taken various decisions; he 
is going to implement them; he may have even begun to do so. We are taking up this matter 
with all the States concerned. 


ate ok ae 2 a4 और मंद a4 मर 


We have drawn a plan of what should be done and then we discussed it with the Chief 
Ministers of U.P. and some other States. But the problem is not the same for all parts of 
the country, it concerns specially the U.P., Bihar, and Andhra Pradesh. Andhra Pradesh 
has already done something. What we are doing is entirely what is guaranteed to the 
minorities in our Constitution. 


The other problem which is of grave concern to us all is that of organisations and 
individuals receiving foreign money. This matter has an important bearing on the 
functioning of our institutions, especially our political institutions. Government are most 
anxious that political organisations, academic and social bodies working in important areas 
of national life should function in a manner consistent with the values of the sovereign 
democratic republic. That is why after this matter was taken up in this House earlier, 
Government agreed to have a thorough enquiry into the matter. The broad conclusions of 
that enquiry revealed the necessity of imposing suitable restrictions on the receipt of funds 
from foreign organisations, agencies and individuals other than in the course of ordinary 
business transaction. We promised to consult leaders of the Opposition on the principles 
of such legislation. This we are doing. My colleague, the hon. Minister of Parliamentary 
Affairs has sent a note giving the principles underlying the proposed legislation to the 
leaders of the Opposition. Various suggestions including those contained in certain Bills 
on this subject which are being introduced by hon. Members, have been kept in view. 
However, I should like to add that while such measures are necessary and should be taken 
and will be taken, corruption cannot be cured merely by putting a sentinel on each person. 
Fundamentally it is the social attitude which counts. Therefore, we must not only take steps 
to punish corruption but also create an atmosphere which will not encourage it in any way... 
(Interruptions) | think, I should, refrain trom replying to the comments of the hon. Member; 


he is trying to provoke me. 


AN SN Ay AEA SPOS eRe 
22004 174 ODOT 5106 < कैद dans ie Seat NT 


fe oy, BR TN ay A ea rae MAAN 
26. CDSN es wy 
= ‘’ Pe . 
४ ' 


The other point which is of concern to the entire country is that of unprincipled «५ 

defections. We fully share the concern for this malady in our body politic and we are 
determined to take steps to check it. Hon. Members know that I had already discussions 
with party leaders on this question just before the elections but at that meeting many of 
them expressed misgivings and it was not at all clear what they wanted us to do. Therefore, 
I wrote to them almost immediately, in fact a day or so after the meeting, seeking their 
specific reaction. Inspite of reminders, very few replies have been received. But after careful 
consideration, the Government have decided to go ahead and introduce a Bill based on 
the recommendations of the Committee on defections. 


kc HO मंप्कं मे 


- Something came in the way of the Opposition Leaders agreeing to the Bill at that 
momeént, to put it mildly.* 


We aft भर aK ae मे we he ae 


Anyhow, in this matter we have to have some kind of national consensus and this was 
reached in that committee in regard to certain legislative proposals. Now, we are consulting 
the Chief Ministers....(/nterruptions). 


ae 2 मं ae he a me a a 


I can assure the hon. Member that I am not issuing personal directives to any State at 
-all**, I neither have nor do I propose to do so. 


In this connection, may I say that one hon. Member I forget his name—earlier in the 
afternoon made some comments about our party giving directions for the toppling of 
Governments. There is no truth in this at all. At our meeting there was a discussion and 
we were informed by Members belonging to two States about the situation developing in 
their States. They did not think the Governments there could survive. (Interruptions) They 
certainly said that; we accepted the situation—(Jnterruptions). For instance, in Punjab, the 
quarrel was between two parts of the same party. The hon. Member knows, we had nothing 
to do with the fall of the West Bengal Government either. It was a quarrel between the 
constituent units of their own Government. (/nterruptions). Whether you believe it or not, 
it is a fact. It is gracious of the Hon’ble Member to believe in something which is true. 
(Interruptions) 


ae a के मं मं: भर Heri ae 


Well, as no hon. Member here said, that we see where the money is. It certainly is not 
with us.*** 


Now, the point is that we are consulting the Chief Ministers on this issue. 


The other important issue is the Lokpal and Lokayuktas Bill. This Bill, as hon. Members 
know, was introduced in this House in May, 1968, but then at the request of the Member 
and, because it was such an important measure, it was referred to a Joint Committee of 
both Houses. The Bill, as amended and reported by the Joint Committee, was passed by 
the Lok Sabha in August, 1969. It was awaiting consideration by the Rajya Sabha when 
the Fourth Lok Sabha was dissolved. We intend to bring this Bill before Parliament soon. 


It was inevitable that reference should be made to the privy purses and privileges. 
Government stand fully committed to their abolition. It is true that Members are unhappy 


* Responding to Shri Shyamnandan Mishra’s remark, “You are more serious than the others; that is the impres- 
sion you want to convey”. 


** Responding to Shri Bhogendra Jha’s remark, “Under your personal direction, it is reported that defectors are 
promoted to ministership in Bihar”’. 
*** Replying to the reference of ‘Money Bag’ made by Shri Jyotirmoy Bosu. 


at the delay in this, but I would like to remind them that the Supreme Court’s judgement 
has raised a number of constitutional and legal issues. We should be able to sustain any 
action taken. That is why it is taking some time, but I think we will be coming before the 
House soon. 


a ae af a 34 मं ne oe ak 


We are trying to be as quick as we possibly can. 


It is always interesting to hear Shri Shyamnandan Mishra’s views. If he will excuse 
my Saying so, his party has made a special virtue of distorting facts....(/nterruptions). 


2 ak ak 2 ae a a ak 


He spoke about the guidelines for the Governments, and he himself acknowledged that 
the President has formed a committee to go into this question. As a Government we have 
nothing to do with that committee. I believe they have met, but they have not talked to us 
and 1 do not know if they have talked to any Members of the Opposition. 


a मर ak ak ke ak etek 


He is not insulated*. But he has formed a committee of Governors. They are meeting. 
When they want us to come into the picture, the President will ask us, but otherwise I do 
not think it is proper for us to interfere. 


22k ak मं: ke मर afc ak a 


Well, you see, it takes place by mentioning something which may contain a little bit 
of truth**. Of course, in many matters not now but on earlier occasions, there have been 
allegations with no truth at all. But sometimes, there 1s a little bit of truth and a little bit 
of imagination combined. 


People always view others according to their own light. I mean, what they themselves 
would do, they tend to think that other people are doing. This is the trouble in life. 


Mr. Jyotirmoy Bosu is always thinking that we are interfering in the service and we 
are giving orders. Unfortunately the same is the case with Mr. Mishra, who should know 


better. 
rc 3k ok जप जद गुर मंद नर afc 


The hon. Member is going from one aspect to another. The representations made were 
not always the same. The first was with regard to the people in Andamans. One point was 
decided. Then the purview was extended. I fully realise that all that needed to be done has 
not been done and some deserving people have been left out. We are going into the matter. 


afc मं: akc mK fc मं me HK a 


* Replying to Shri Shyamnandan Mishra’s questions : “What about the President? Is he completely insulated 7” 
** Replying to Shri Shyamnandan Mishra’s remark : “Where was the distortion of facts’’? 


- I should like to appeal once more to the House this is not from the party point of view 
or the‘point of view of making it less difficult for the Government. As the House knows, I 
enjoy difficulties so that is not my line. In fact, my favourite poem, which I often quote in 
public meetings etc. is a poem by Gurudev to the effect : 


‘Let me not pray to be sheltered from 
dangers but to be fearless in facing them.” 


Today the danger is not to me, or to my party; the danger is to the whole country. Therefore, 
I make this appeal to all of you because I presume, as | said earlier that we in the House 
are committed to the democratic process. 


ae मर aie मैप मंध oie aK HK 3 


That is for him* to judge. What leadership I have given the people, they are very well 
aware. ** 


Coming to Shr Mishra, he made many remarks before the elections so perhaps he 
should be a little more careful in what he now says. I should be grateful if Shri S.N. Mishra 
and all the other hon. Members of this House would help us in leading the people and 
making them strong. Certainly, criticism could be there on how to increase our efficiency. 
So far as the police and other services are concerned, their methods should be more humane, 
more modern and the attempt should be not so much to punish as to reform and to help 
people to go along the right path. With all our strength we must fight against all those 
tendencies and forces which are trying to weaken our country. You may say that the 
Government is not doing enough or the Government is bourgeois—you may uSe any 
adjective you like—but that should not be an excuse, at this grave juncture in our history, 
to divide the nation. That is what I would humbly ask the House. I hope the House will 
vote all the demands. 


ae 2 मं a 2 मर मंद aie ac 


* Shri Shyamnandan Mishra. 


** Replying to Shri Shyamnandan Mishra’s question, ‘What lead do you give to the country” and Shri Jyotirmoy 
Bosu’s remark, ‘leaderless’. 


Nation - Building* 


Mr. Speaker, Sir, in the last two days, listening to the debate on the Demands for Grants 
for the Home Ministry, I was reminded of an English song which I had heard when I was 
in my early teens. The British posters for the recruitment to the Navy at that time used to 
bear the legend, “Join the Navy and see the world.” And on this slogan, the sailors had 
written a song, saying : 


‘We joined the Navy to see the world 
And what did we see, we saw the sea 
And the Atlantic was not as gigantic 
And the Pacific was not as terrific 

As they were made out to be.” 


Sir, I came to this House expecting a strong onslaught from the hon. Members of the 
Opposition, but what did I find ? A very mild rehash of the points they have been making 
in the House and outside on many occasions. 


मंद 2k 2k 2 2 af ak ak af 


The hon. Member opposite has always been very gracious and I have always been 
grateful to him for that.** 


aK मंद मर a 2c a ae ok a 


You are suspicious about everything.*** Actually, Shri Bhagat took my point, because 
I had noted down when you were speaking that I had not suspected you of so much 
imagination and that your speech sounded very much like a plot of good detective story. 
But I might tell him that I am not an admirer of Mr. James Bond. 


akc afc 3c मंद afc 2k a 2c मंद 


I am trying to pay you a compliment.**** Obviously Members were so little enthused 
by their own ideas that even the oratory to which we looked forward on such occasions 
was largely absent and I must say I missed it. 


* Replying to the debate on the Demands for Grants, Ministry of Home Affairs, 1972-73, L.S. Deb., 
24 April, 1972, cc. 185-96. 
** Responding to Shri Shyamnandan Mishra’s remark, “Be grateful then”. 
*** Replying to Shri Jyotirmoy Bosu’s remark, “Suspicious”. 
**** Replying to Shri Shyamnandan Mishra’s observation, “How complementary to him ?” 


Shenae ४27; ge 
Seen ieee 
122 २२ x? 22: ort a 


eB AS oe 22 £00 Be २८ 


"डी पट ४८१४४ SPAS ential o ata a TNR ००४२४ ४००० ००02 जा 0० ००००० ००३ 
SERRE SLES ५९४४ ena 
BAS री ao aie Pal १ 
Sears 4 eters ess ene 920 :: 05४: owe ee ESO EA INES 


22268 Be (| ५ Se 2४02 # 
ww 


605 


Ooo o Age 
SEER os (५ oe zs A 
4 / 1 ‘ate 
“21:5७ 
axes 


Re 


Ss% 


९2% ] nis a Pa 2 5 
So ee 3238 He 2 21202: 2 222 5222 2 oe oa 07242: 50 x z aS 
22222: cee ge rte eae Seas 


Soe 72726 
ee 2 : SRS 


Ne 
Brn Soe 
a Paesat a anne 
aS eth 
4 पर पट 2० २०० पाप 
PPIs यान १ 


2: 
ae 


SRR 
ec 


te 

rare 
Ce pe SOP 
see 
Pye Lets ete 


- ..¢The allegations which were made by the hon. Members opposite have been answered 
by many other hon. Members who spoke from this side and by some who spoke from 
their own side.... (Interruptions). 


My colleague Shri Pant has dealt with the question of violence. I can only express my 
amazement at the brazenness with which the CPM are now talking about the negation of 
democracy, one party rule and so on. Such talk has also give the opportunity to a section 
of the foreign press who have always tried of find things against us to report and to magnify 
them and to mislead the people. Now they give the impression that we have liquidated or 
banned all political parties in this country, which as you all know is very far from the 
truth. I also see from the newspapers that the CPM are contemplating some kind of 
‘agitation. It is not clear whether this will be violent or whether they will adopt non-violent 
means which they have all along condemned as reactionary and even contemptble. 


We all know that at no time have they accepted democracy as we understand it and 
even now I doubt if they are willing to concede that the democratic system can deliver the 
goods. They have always and-I speak subject to correction—and I think they still believe 
that the ends justify the means. As the House is aware our own belief has been and continues 
to be that means are as important as ends for means govern and shape the ends. 


The charge of ngging the elections is fantastic. It has been made before and it has 
already been strongly refuted. Why is such a charge made? Curiously enough the extreme 
right and the extreme left have combined on this matter. Perhaps this reflects the fact that 
neither is too deeply committed to democracy. 


The Congress lost quite heavily in 1967. We did not come and complain about these 
things. We tried to assess the situation : what were the causes of our defeat. Based on the 
experience we have been able to build our strength again. The Congress had never, and 
does not now believe in violence. We have condemned all acts of violence whether they 
are committed by Marxists, by Communists or by anybody else... (An hon. Member : 
Congressmen also)... certainly by Congressmen, anywhere they take place, I do not 
condone any violence or wrong doing. I have no hesitation in saying that if anyone in my 


party... 


me अंध मर ae aie के aK मेष और 


I was saying that I do not condone violence or any wrong doing : if any in my party 
Or pretending to be in my party is indulging in such acts, he must also be dealt with. But 
let the opposition not delude anyone that there 1s no difference between the violence 
indulged in by the Marxists or the communalists and that of some misguided youths. One 
is part of a creed and the other is a temporary aberration. 


Some points were made, some miscellaneous points, which were not about the Home 
Ministry as such, but about me and about what I have said outside the House. I hope that 
I shall be excused if I also wander just a little way off the main subjects to refute those 
allegations. 


It was said that co-operation was given by all parties last year and that this was misused. 
I must confess that I have not been able to understand this point, because the co-operation 
was Offered at the height of the crisis, and I have publicly, in this House and outside 
acknowledged this with thanks. 


So far as the elections are concerned, the whole point of democracy is that every party 
puts forward their point of view, and if they think any other party’s policy is wrong, they 
criticise that policy. That is surely not an aspersion on the co-operation offered earlier for 
a particular purpose by the opposition parties. 


The attitude of the RSS is well known if I speak about it here, there will be an 
acrimonious exchange, but I can only say that their attitude and the training which they 
give to young people are antithetical to our way of life. Shrimati Subhadra Joshi and some 
others have spoken about these matters during this debate and on the Private Member’s 
Bill. 


Another point which was made was that we made requests for votes on the basis of 
having done something for a particular community. I do not see how this can possibly be 
regarded communal’. All parties and the Government were saying to defferent groups, this 
is what we have done or what we intend to do for you. Obviously, if you speak to one 
group, they are not interested in what you have done for somebody else, you have to say 
what you are doing for them. By no stretch of the imagination can this be labelled 
communal. 


Similarly, mention was made of my appeal for strong and stable Congress Governments 
in the States. I very clearly did say that I thought only strong and stable Congress 
Governments could implement our programme. At the same time, I made it clear that at 
no time have we not given full co-operation to other Governments, when elected. And in 
fact we have given full co-operation to whoever the people have chosen or voted for. 
(Interruptions). 


I do not want to go into the matter which the hon. Member has raised just now. We 
have only to look to the history of the last year to see how this question arose and who 
began the process. It certainly was not the Congress. 


I am sorry the hon. Member of the Swatantra Party, Shri Mody did not speak. The 
House always looks forward to his speaking, it gives some light relief. The Swatantra 
Party’s thinking has not yet shed its unreality, which is so reminiscent of what Alice found 
in her wonderland. Usually it was my friend Shri Siddhartha Shankar Ray who quotes 
from the story of Alice but now that he is not in the House. I have to mention it. 


It was significant also that the Swatantra Party should show concern at what is 
happening in the territorial waters of Bangla Desh, a free and friendly neighbour of ours, 
but not at the sustained anti-Indian stance and harmful propaganda of the United States 
and their help to our enemies. I am not saying that such matters should be mentioned, I 
am just pointing out that, if they have to mention an outside power it is of interest to see 
what they choose to mention. The Jan Sangh and the Swatantra Party have consistently 


tried to denigrate the leadership of the country and national policy. 


607 


~ Qne hon. Member spoke about a hoarding. Perhaps this indicates the height of his 
vision. I cannot guess what Air India meant or convey, but.being familiar with their previous 
publicity, when I saw that particular hoarding, I thought it was referring to the leadership 
of their own little Maharaja and the superiority of their airlines. I am sure that was the 
reaction of most people. It would indeed be sad if irritation with an individual makes some 
people lose their sense of humour. | 


My colleague Shri Pant has dealt with most of the points that came up in this debate, 
but because of lack of 16. he could not mention two. Even these are not new. The 
Government’s views have been explained on earlier occasions. One is the question of 
defections. It 18 astonishing that hon. Members should continue to criticise us for the delay. 
As Shri Pant has said, the delay was due to some of the leaders of the Opposition not 
replying to our communications. At the meeting of the representatives of a number of parties 
and of some Independents Members expressed themselves in favour of disqualifying 
defectors from continuing as Members of the Legislature. However, the Committee on 
Defections had not reached any agreed conclusion. So, we thought it necessary to consult 
the Chief Ministers. This has been done and since there is vast support for this suggestion, 
Government will soon bring forward legislative proposals to give effect to this measure. 


HOOK 2 मंद ak tek ok 


The second major point of concern to us is the role of foreign money in public life. 
Legislative proposals has been formulated and we shall soon bring them to the House, to 
curb such undesirable transacuons. The proposals contemplate outright prohibition, prior 
permission and intimation. Outright prohibition applies to candidates for election to a 
Legislature, Members of Parliament and of State Legislatures, a political party or an office 
bearer there of, Government servants, employees of corporate undertakings, the editor, 
printer and publisher of a registered newspaper. The restriction regarding prior permission 
will apply to all other organisations, or groups of persons, whether incorporated or not, 
with a definite political, social, educational, religious, cultural or economic programme, 
including any trust, endowment or foundation. Intimation in the prescribed manner will 
be required in the case of other individuals. 


eh ak मर अं ok जद मंद अर 


We now come to the important question about Centre-State relations and the prickly 
question of State autonomy. I find that even those who used to plead so earnestly for a 
strong Centre have now somewhat moved their ground. I simply cannot understand why 
there should be tension between the Centre and the States. Whenever I have the opportunity 
of meeting the Chief Ministers or other Ministers from all the States—during my tenure 
they have belonged to all parties. Hon. Members opposite know that the Chief Minister of 
Tamil Nadu is in Delhi. We had a Swatantra Government in Onssa and we had a Socialist 
Government in Bihar. Chief Ministers and Ministers came to meet me. I have never found 
any kind of acrimony, difficulty or even disharmony in settling various problems with them. 


Development is a total effort of the Government in which every Ministry of the Centre 
and all State Governments have an allotted role. We have given a new focus to the plan 


y 22% fa Sarin LEP oP 
5०; At ea if: rene ee 422 LL Ne le CER CEL 2277 
“1040 LE, . oe LRN ET Ss 22700. 05 2८ 
नक्शा कक BE oY TT 4 141०७ 1502 ६६ LLL ८०५०४ 7०) डक ee आर 


by emphasising development at the ground level. We have given special attention to all 
those sections of the population and all those regions which have so far been neglected. 
Our endeavour now is to strengthen the weakest limbs. 


The problem of autonomy has to be viewed in this perspective. Does any State feel 
helpless in serving its people ? Or, has the Constitution or the Central Government come 
in its way ? Some people have complained about delay. I know that sometimes there is 
delay in the sanctioning of projects. But we can certainly find ways to improve this situation. 
We all know that sometimes State Governments also try to score points over the Centre. 
We do not object to this. It is all in the rules of the game. 


Some Members have raised the question of the distribution of funds and the financial 
powers of the States. The allocation of financial resources between the Centre and the States 
has been provided in our Constitution, keeping in view their respective responsibilities 
and by carefully balancing the needs of national planning with the scope necessary for 
regional initiative. It is perfectly understandable that each State should ask for more funds 
for its own development. Every State, regardless of what party is ruling there, complains 
of complete apathy towards it, although I may mention in passing that funds made available 
to the States have not always been fully utilized by them. The crux of the problem before 
all of us is that 1f each State looks only to its own needs and requirements, how will regional 
imbalance be removed ? The experience of the last 22 years has demonstrated the soundness 
of the approach adopted by our Constitution-makers. The imperatives of national security 
and of more rapid social and economic development continue to be as important today as 
in the past. Every State has some common problems with the rest of the country and some 
specific problems of its own. What 1s to be the relationship between the parts and the whole, 
between diversity and unity ? The freedom movement, in which my party was in the 
forefront, and the Constitution both these have evolved a system in which there is general 
cultural and linguistic satisfaction. This strengthens unity and at the same time preserves 
diversity, for we believe that diversity itself can be a source of strength. 


I presume that all of us here, regardless of what party we belong to, are working towards 
a more egalitarian society. We are deeply conscious of the hardships suffered by large 
sections of the population-the landless, Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes, linguistic 
minorities, religious minority groups and so on. They have genuine grievances and do not 
always get a fair deal from society. A continuous and unremitting effort to allay the 
apprehensions and to remove grievances is basic to national integration. 


I feel that there should be a continuous study of their problems. This requires the 
collection of material which is at present scattered over a large number of agencies. To 
facilitate this we have set up a Directorate of National Integration in the Home Ministry. 


ek अं HOOK” ae ak a 


It is still doing work at different levels.* It is not doing anything spectacular but it is 
functioning. 


* Replying to Shri Shyamnandan Mishra’s remark : “The National Integration Council seems more or less dead.” 


cox टी a 
9742002००522: 04% 
EPR EY 2४ 
setae co ee a 

oa oat 

SD Enos cate 


20: 
Bae 


22 


fat te ७३ NS 


ne 


ra 
जि जन न Ue ae ht dp ene, 
See Nema pes 
SSE 2 


- Shr Madhu Dandavate did not speak in the debate but he has written to me about the 
atro¢ities on harijans 


aK a ok a a ak aK Hh भर 


The Directorate which have mentioned will look into such matters also. 


Shrimati Lakshmikanthamma drew our attention to the discrimination against women 
in some service rules. She pointed out that married women were not entitled to appointment 
as of right, and that when a woman already in service marries, she might be asked to resign. 
We are removing this discrimination. 


ae ake ak ne 2h मं ak ae ak 


Shnmati Sheila Kaul, Shrimati Mukul Banerji and Shn H.K.L. Bhagat spoke about 
the police. I share their concern, but this is a two-way business and the question is a complex 
one. Policemen are a part of society. They are also fathers, sons, brothers and so on ; they 
are also either villagers or townsmen, and they should be sympathetic to the problems of 
the people and the people should show greater respect to them. 


In the old days their training did not fully equip them for this type of a role not only 
in our country but in most countries. The Home Ministry’s work 1s concerned not merely 
with crime but with social and political malaise and other evidences of dissatisfaction. The 
traditiona],outlook of merely maintaining law and order has to change and be constantly 
renovated. We give importance to the Police Training Committee which was recently set 
up. We must aim at an enlightened public and an enlightened police. 


We seek the citizen’s participation in helping to solve crime and disorder. So, the public 
and the police, both must change old habits. The public should trust the police more and 
the police in their turn should be more worthy of public trust. 


res 

I should like to touch upon one other matter, which is capital punishment. I know this 

is a controversial subject. The Law Commission has expressed an opinion in favour of 222: 
retaining it. This was supported by several of our Chief Ministers. But in spite of a very oe 
thorough study the Law Commission’s report was not able to establish any real relationship 
between the incidence of murder and capital punishment. They have pointed out, as indeed S S 


have several books on the subject, to a large number of cases where after a man has been 
put to death, it has been found that there was a miscarriage of justice and the real murderer 
either had himself confessed or was discovered. But in the mean time an innocent man 
had lost his life. This is a matter to which I should like hon. Members and the public to 
give thought. 


There was some mention of greatness. I should like to ask you, Mr. Speaker, and 
through you, the hon. Members of the House, whether in the speeches of the hon. 
Opposition leaders there was any glimmer of greatness ? Have they are not confined 
themselves to narrow limits and to small matters, showing utter disregard for the larger 
problems and difficulties before the nation and the vast challenges which we face today? 


610 है 


They have completely ignored the mood of self-confidence which is so obvious in our 
country today. 


Greatness is not given or taken away by words. Only history can be the final judge. 
But we are not interested in the greatness of an individual; we are interested 1n the greatness 
of the country. If India is great, all of us will be great; every Indian, whether here or abroad, 
can hold his head high. If India is not great, no one in India can be great, no matter what 
his position is. The policies and the work of this Government are directed towards the 
aim of making India great. We may make mistake, our steps may sometimes be slow but 
no one can deny that the country is advancing step by step. And that is what matters. 


It is for all of us to assess what is in the country’s interest just now—a feeling of 
defeatism or a feeling of confidence. The House knows that Government have never tried 
to draw a veil over our shortcomings. But there has to be some perspective in our outlook. 
I am reminded of two men who were in confinement and had only a small window on the 
outside world. Looking out one man saw only the mud while the other saw the stars. 


With these words, I request the House to vote for the Demands for Grants relating to 
the Ministry of Home Affairs. 


611 


Demand for Inclusion of Nepali in the 
Eighth Schedule of the Constitution* 


Sir, I entirely agree with what Shni Indrajit Gupta has said that it is better to take 
decisions across the table rather than allow the situation to get “hotted up” and that is what 
we are trying to do. As the House knows, no question is ever simple. Every question evokes 
various reactions and therefore we have to see what the repercussions are likely to arise. I 
have talked to the people who came to see me and, as the hon. Member** knows, that 
delegation consisted of members of all parties of the Darjeeling area. We took them into 
confidence and told them what our difficulties were and how we are trying to meet them 
During our first meeting, the language demand was, of course, very prominent, but they 
also touched upon a number of other matters. They felt that they were not getting equal 
opportunities in various areas. The Government of West Bengal has taken every step, 
assuring them that there will be no kind of discrimination in the services and various other 
activities. Nepali has been accepted as a language of that area. Many other facilities are 
being given. This time the stand of the delegation was a little different. They said the 
demand was an emotional one. We have assured them that we are looking into It. 


ae oc ak a ak 2K 2k ic मं: 


This was the word they used : it is not my word.*** (Interruptions). 


So, I assure the hon. House and the hon. Member that we are looking into this matter 
in depth. A number of other States are also concerned. We have had a talk with the Chief 
Minister and we are looking into it. 


* Replying to the point raised by Shri Indrajit Gupta, L.S. Deb., 15 March, 1973, cc. 199-200. 
** Shri Indrajit Gupta. 
*** Replying to Shri Dinen Bhattacharya’s remark : ‘No question of emotion.” 


612 : 


*% 


Situation Arising out of Communal Riots* 


Madam Chairman, the subject of communalism is an exceedingly important one 
because, in fact, we believe that it is central to the unity and strength of our 
country...(/nterruptions) 


ae ae मं ae ht ak afc fe ak 


I think the hon. Member** who spoke last rightly pointed out, and I would support 
him, that communalism does not relate merely to the chauvinistic feelings or friction 
between Hindus and Muslims but also to other minorities and even, I would say; the 
tensions which are now being created between different castes and the attitude of aggressive 
groups and dominant groups, whether they are socially dominant, economically dominant 
or merely numerically dominant, towards those whom they consider to be weaker than 
themselves. And the present general atmosphere of violence does contribute to the 
aggravation of tension. 


Now, I want to make it clear that I do not think that Hinduism its, in any way, threatened 
either by Islam or by Christianity. I say this because this is sometimes the basis of the 
propaganda that is made. What does threaten it is those who want to narrow down the 
breath of its vision and the grandeur of its whole concept and the wide sweep of its thought. 
India has an age old tradition of acceptance of the fact that there are many ways to truth 
out of giving respect to different religions and different approaches. It 18 this tolerance 
which has given Hinduism, its resilience, and therefore its staining power. It is India’s 
capacity for synthesis and adaptation that has created our composite culture which can 
flourish only in an atmosphere of mutual understanding and accommodation. This has been 


the Congress creed and our aim. 


Now, I must admit, that as human beings we Congress men and women sometimes 
faltered and failed to live up to our high precepts; but I think that the people and the 
Administration knew that we stood firmly for Secularism and that we shall continue to do 
so always. As I said, it is the very basis of our existence and, we think, of the existence of 
the country.... 


मंध्मंः मं af ae अर af oe ae 


* Participating (as a Member) in the discussion on the Motion regarding the situation arising out of recent communal 
riots (moved by Prof. Samar Guha), L.S. Deb., 5 December, 1978, cc. 271-282. 


** Dr. Subramaniam Swamy. 


613 


Now, I would like just to say a word about the Aligarh Muslim University, because 
this was mentioned by some hon. Members. 


I was advised at that time that this Bill would strengthen secular elements and therefore, 
generally strengthen the Muslim cause. It was never our intention to hurt their feelings in 
any way, or to weaken the university or to change its character. So when certain 
representatives and different delegations came up to me I agreed to reconsider the matter. 
We did indeed express this view later on in our election manifesto. 


Any discussion with regard to questions concerning the minorities should be taken only 
after the fullest consultation with all groups of them. I am afraid that we did not give full 
consideration to this at that ttme. However, the situation is always too delicate, for their 
sentiments to be wounded. 


Now I should like to add my voice to the many Members who spoke yesterday in 
expressing my appreciation and in congratulating the faculty and the students of the Aligarh 
Muslim University for the help and succour which they gave to the Hindus and the Muslims 
who were victims in the Aligarh nots and also to the many Hindus and Muslims who helped 
one another at such a time of distress. 


As I was passing through Aligarh station by train, many people came from both 
communities and gave me a vivid account of the mischief that was done and the many 
acts of violence as well as of this help and the humanitarian work of the students and the 
faculty. If there was a newspaper report attributing the remark to me that I did not need 
Muslim votes, I can only reiterate very strongly that it is entirely false and baseless. 


Speaking about what Dr. Sushila Nayar has said recently, I have referred to the atrocities 
on Muslims, on Harijans and on Adivasis and the hardships they have to suffer. I have 
also referred to the barbarous shooting in Pantnagar in which the victims belonged to 
different castes, but my speech also covered economic and foreign policy issues. Would it 
be fair to Harijans or the Adivasis or the Muslim minority if we were not to refer to these 
matters? Why are we discussing them here today? Would the Muslims and others be safer 
if such attacks are hushed up? I have said and I ask again what meaning can democracy 
have for the man whose house and belongings are destroyed and his loved ones killed and 
for those whose lands are being snatched away, who are beaten or maimed?... 
(Interruptions). 


He ae ae me मंद भर मे मंद a 
| am not excusing any riots which took place at any time, before, now or which may 
take place later. We have to condemn all riots anywhere, where people have suffered. I 


have always condemned every riot and every act of barbarism which has taken place 
anywhere. 


ek ak 2k 2 Ok मम मे 


614 


Yes, during emergency also, if there were such acts*. 


Iam now speaking about the sufferings of the poor people and sufferings of Harijans. 
Even yesterday when 1 returned from the House in the evening, I found various groups 
waiting for me. In fact, I have their applications with me right now. I am not speaking 
from the hearsay on the basis of newspaper reports but from my personal experience of 
the many sorrowful groups who come to me. The applications which I have here with me 
are only representative of something that is happening every day ever since our defeat as 
the ruling party. It is not that the people did not come before. People did come before 
also, but today they come and when I say that I am not in a position to do anything, they 
say: well, somebody has to raise some voice...(/nterruptions) My speeches in this House 
are on record and anybody can see what I have said earlier also in this regard. When these 
people come to me, what I can do is to mention their cases in public to try and rouse the 
public consciousness and to refer their grievances or get our local people to refer them to 
the concerned authorities. There is nothing more that I can do. Therefore, to say that this 
should not be mentioned would be very unrealistic. It is only when public consciousness 
is roused, that we would be able to achieve our objective; at least the neighbours would 
feel constrained to prevent such acts in their areas. As we know, today these incidents are 
on the increase. Unfortunately, when one goes to make a complaint, it is the complainant 
himself who gets involved in the trouble. Either he is arrested or he gets involved in some 
police case....(/nterruptions). 


When the hon. Member, Shn Jyotirmoy Bosu, was giving out the information with 
regard to the number of riots earlier, the hon. Member must have noticed that there was a 
steady decline in the figures. With regard to the atrocities on Harijans also, according to 
the newspapers and the various Government reports which I have seen, the figure is now 
on the increase. When I passed through Calcutta airport, I think, it was some time last 
year, a leader of a Union came to me and I myself put this question to him. Did you not 
have this type of difficulty earlier ? He said : We did, but when we went to the authorities, 
may be they could not deal with two out of our ten grievances, but we always had a hearing 
and at least some of them were solved, but today nobody is giving us a 
hearing...(/nterruptions). I am only repeating what the gentleman told me....(/nterruptions). 


ae ri a ae Hk eae ak 


With regard to democracy I would like to say that democracy can survive only on the 
basis of socialism which stands for economic justice, and secularism which stands for social 
justice. (Interruptions). It does not help to misrepresent others, nor is it my intention to do 
so. Other hon. Members ably quoted facts and figures. 


If the Jan Sangh and RSS are mentioned, it is certainly not out of any allergy to them, 
but because of the ideology of Hindu militancy and supremacy, and the mention of Hindu 
Rashtra which they have been preaching, and of the remarks regarding Little. Pakistans 
within India and so on, which we hear from time to time. (/nterruptions) Para-military 


* Replying to a Member who asked, “Even during Emergency?” 


615 


training to children and young people is not conducive either to communal harmony or to 
~ giving a feeling of security to members of other communities. Photographs have appeared 
and all newspapers and other reports have mentioned children with imitation guns 
Naturally, I have no inside information. I know only what has appeared.... (Interruptions). 


ae ake मै 40408 He ne a 


Consistently the newspapers have mentioned; with regard to Aligarh and certain other 
matters the names of important people of the local RSS. (Interruptions). The names in the 
FIR read out yesterday were those of one group as far as I know (Interruptions). The 
philosophy of the dominant partner of the ruling Janata Party is responsible for creating 
an atmosphere of fear and insecurity in the minds of minorities and weaker sections. 


It is no use blaming the Administration; unless we know that they have been given 
firm and clear instructions which they have defied. 


ak मंद a 2 fe a eK मंद 


We did not have party members as officials under us at all.* Therefore, what an official 
did then; or now; he did according to his ideas; and certainly not because the party directed 
him....(/nterruptions). 


One point which I have always emphasised-I am glad to say that one hon. Member 
from the ruling party who spoke yesterday also said so—and which I should like to reiterate 
is the importance, first of trying to prevent tension from coming to the boil and secondly 
to take the firmest measures if there is any trouble, right in the beginning as soon as trouble 
appears. From this point of view it was certainly a mistake to lift the curfew and endanger 
the lives of people as happened in Aligarh from what I can see from newspaper reports. 
Our policy was not evenly implemented but we did try to take a large number of minority. 
personnel in the police and other services at all levels...(/nterruptions). Employment 
Opportunities must be given to them in industry also. Whenever there was a new industry 
established, Muslim minorities and other weaker sections and those who were dislodged 
by the start of new industrial undertakings should be given jobs there first. It is equally 
necessary to ensure that every subject in our education programme gives the child the nght 
attitude towards its fellow citizens and other religions, languages and so on. This we have 
tried with some success. I wonder if the Government 18 giving full consideration to all the 
repercussions which might arise out of the Anti-Conversion Bill which is on the anvil. A 
secular attitude must be an essential requirement for all officials, teachers and others in 
responsible positions. I entirely agree that questions regarding communal tension, law and 
order situation and violence are national questions. But some of the issues raised and the 
manner of mentioning them did not indicate that the ruling party is entirely of this view. | 
have earlier spoken very strongly about the Jan Sangh; about the R.S.S. Some Members 
said that no case had been brought out. I think it was mentioned yesterday; again by an 
hon. Member from that side; not from our side it is not a question of who throws the first 


* Responding to Shri Ram Dhan’s remark, “What aboot Mr. Tandon who was serving under you 7...” 


616 : 


stone. It is very difficult to prove who threw the first stone. The question is what is the 
atmosphere? An atmosphere of bitterness and hatred is spread through statements. I have 
mentioned some of these things; Little Pakistan or something like that; or a whispering 
campaign which inflames hatred. It is this which creates an atmosphere in which any child 
can be induced to throw a stone or do something like that which can spark off such a 
situation. Why is it that at other times similar acts do not have repercussions ? Things are 
normal if a Hindu and a Hindu fight and the matter ends there. But if the same fight is on 
a very trivial matter between a Hindu and Muslim why should 1 immediately degenerate 
and rose such passions ? Some propaganda has been going on which creates this sort of 
atmosphere. My humble submission is and it is not at all with a view to get any political 
advantage. I do not think any political advantage is gained out of communal 
violence...(Interruptions). Everybody suffers; the Muslim suffers and the Hindu suffers 
and if there is any gain at all it must be a very temporary gain....(/nterruptions). 


ae 2 ak 2 मंद मर etc 


The sort of remarks that were made here earlier by people belonging I believe to the 
Jan Sangh.... 


ae 2c ai ae akc aie ae He भर 


I think you were one of the strongest spokesmen of this so-called group”. 
(Interruptions)...shall I say, a segment of the Janata Party ? They have a very definite 
view. I have stated with great humility that today, if we are discussing this matter, 11 is not 
to blame either the Jan Sangh or the RSS; they have been propagating a point of view 
which was very dangerous to the unity and integrity of this country. Because if any one 
group which is unsafe, or even if not actually unsafe, feel that they do not have equal 
Opportunity, and it is obvious now that the Muslim minority does feel this.... 


tok ae 2k ak afc ak ak 


I am not justifying anything. But just because something happened in Andhra Pradesh** 
you cannot say that Muslims are feeling safe in other places. Something was said about 
the Parsi Community. It is because they are so small that nobody thinks of them as a threat. 
They are living in one or two places. But Muslims are spread all over India. When I speak 
of minorities I think of other minorities also. In different places, other communities are in 
a minority. There are towns and villages where other people are in a minority. 


I would ask the hon. Members on the other side who belong to what used to be ‘the 
Jan Sangh’. They say it is no longer there. Most of us here see, it is very much there and 
in a most dominant position. The other constituents of the Janata Party should try to wake 
up to the realities of the situation and the dangers to our country, from their point of view. 
I am not saying that Jan Sangh should be removed from Government but there must be an 


* Replying to Dr. Subramaniam Swamy’s remark, “There is no Jan Sangh; Why don’t you get out of that psychosis?” 
** Responding to Shri Ram Dhan’s remark, “What about Andhra Pradesh.” 


617 


effort to at least convert them or at least try to show them that their attitude will not be 
tolerated. If you use R.S.S., for instance, for adult education, then this kind of attitude is 
spread, it is not curbed and contained. The R.S.S. is called a cultural organisation. Well, 
culture is a word which covers many things. But culture is equally dangerous if communal 
feelings are spread. Whether it is culture, politics or education, the main thing is that this 
kind of attitude must be curbed by the Government; otherwise not only will communalism 
grow there will be growing violence and it will affect the country in many other ways and 
undanger our unity and what we have struggled and stood for. 


618 : 


Agony of Violence“ 


Sir, 1 share the anguish and agony of mind of the hon. Members who have spoken and 
I appreciate the offer of co-operation which they have given. It is natural that such occasions 
Should evoke emotion and once there is emotion some things are said which may or may 
not be desirable otherwise. Nobody wants to excuse what has happened in Moradabad or 
elsewhere. Nobody, and certainly not I myself, would wish to shift the responsibility to 
others. But every situation has to be seen in a particular context. Communal disharmony 
has been growing for some time. I am not going into the causes. I think that anybody who 
thinks and who has been watching the situation is aware of it. 


Much has been made of our slogan that we wanted a Government that works. But a 
machine can work only if it 1s in order. If you get a broken down machinery, where the 
parts are removed and scattered, you cannot make it work immediately. And, I beg to 
submit, Sir, that that is the state of the machinery which we have inherited. It is no less so 
with some of the police as with other parts of the administration. So far as the present 
situation is concerned, it is my view that there may be individual policemen or members 
of the PAC who are responsible for neglect or wrong action and those who are guilty must 
certainly suffer the severest possible punishment. There is no doubt about that. There are 
no two opinions. But to generalise and to blame the entire police force, is not in the interests 
either of communal harmony or of the nation’s security and strength. This 1s the force that 
has to protect the people, whether they are of the minority community or of the majority 
community. If the force feels that it is being removed because it is not trusted, it is bound 
to get demoralised. Therefore, we must be very careful when we apportion blame like that. 


I do not want to mention parties or groups but because one hon. Member has spoken 
of the flag-hoisting in Delhi, I want to say a few words. In all these years, since India has 
been free. I have not heard of any occasion, whether during the period of the Congress 
rule, or the three years of the Janata rule when Jan Sangh members have hoisted the 
National Flag. If it has happened without my knowledge, I do not know. But I have not 
heard of it and I have not seen an advertisement of the kind that was brought out this year. 
Why suddenly has this aspect of patriotism come up on this particular 15th August? I said 
that it was not within my knowledge. (/nterruptions). 


ae fe 3 ae akc और मं i के 


* Replying to the questions on the Statement made by the Minister of Home Affairs regarding the incidents of violence 
at Moradabad, Delhi and some other places, R.S. Deb., 18 August, 1980, cc. 276-78, 281-86, 290. 


619 


' Sir, I was trying to give information on this particular incident. I do not know if it 1s 
fully correct. But what I heard was that when the national flag was unfurled—whoever 
was doing it—because, Mr. Joshi who was supposed to go, did not go; and the person 
forgot to fasten it properly and the flag slipped down on its own. But immediatley, some 
other person ran and raised it again. This is the information I have received from some 
people, not from official sources, but from some people who said they were there. This is 
what I was trying to say when hon. Members got so excited. I can understand their 
excitement and I do not blame them for it. 


ae मंद ok a a a ae He मर 


Now, Sir, as several hon. Members have said, we have communal bodies in every 
section of the people. I am not saying that they exist only in one section or community 
but that some people should be so touchy when they are called ‘communal’, I suppose is 
natural and I do not blame them but we have seen certain attitudes which are patently 
communal. I would be the first person to welcome a real change of heart and a change of 
attitude, but we do find that when such incidents take place, there are not merely anti- 
social elements, but also people who have communal inclinations, who even if they do 
not spark the trouble, help to aggravate it. I am not commenting on this particular incident. 
The police was probably involved. But there are many other such instances. Anyhow, all 
these things will come out in the Inquiry which was declared immediately. 


The two officers mentioned by hon. Shri Bhupesh Gupta were also ordered to be 
removed immediately, but the little problem was that somebody had to take their place 
before they could go. That 1s why there was some delay in their going. But I was a party 
to that decision of the National Integration Council and | still think that it was the nght 
decision that whoever is on the spot has to take the responsibility. He has to be removed. 
If it is later proved that he was not to blame he should not suffer. 


What Mr. Shahi said 1s very correct that whatever happens, it is the poorest people 
who suffer. Sometimes, in any firing innocent people do get fired upon, but always it is 
the very poor who suffer the most. You may say that I am digressing, but let us take the 
Baghpat incident. I am not referring to the agitational part of it, the effect of the agitation. 
A large number of Harijans have come from there. They are not concerned with what is 
happening, all that they are concemed with is that they have lost lives, they are not able 
to go about their daily affairs, either normal functioning or of earning. Apart from the loss 
of lives, which is very sad, all agitations hit the poor in a way from which they cannot 
recover for a long time. It will take time to resettle a person who has lost everything, who 
has put all his savings in a cart or a small shop, and that has gone. That is an impossible 
task for any Government to undertake. 


So far as listening to outside radios is concerned, I should like to add to what the hon. 
Member has said. All communities listen to whatever station they can get. I hope the hon. 
Member was not referring to any particular community. Sometimes such remarks when 
they are not put in context, can lead to misunderstanding and heart-burning. It depends on 
what type of radio you have, how many bands your radio has. Most people try to get varied 
news and other programmes which their instrument is capable of receiving. 


This is not the time to mention Kashmir, but we are indeed sad at the behaviour of the 
Jamat-i-Tulaba is creating a very difficult situation for the local Government and indeed 
for all law-abiding and patriotic people there. 


There are situations in other States which I do not want to go into. When we talk of 
these situations—I do not think Moradabad had necessarily grown out of this—we see 
that there is an atmosphere in the whole country which is one of violence and crime. That 
has not come about overnight, it has been growing. As I have said on earlier occasions, 
part of it is due to the world situation. Everywhere violence and crime is on the increase. 
But in other countnes, they have arrived at a level of development where if they want to 
kill or die, it is their business. Jn India it affects the vast majority of our people in the way 
that hurts them the most. Apart from violence and the person who dies, it affects all 
development programmes, all programmes for progress, all programmes for forward 
movement and it weakens the Government’s ability to protect those who are most in need 
of protection, such as the minorities or the Harijans. It is only if the nation is strong in 
every way that there can be protection for all; otherwise it can not be full protection, with 
all our good intentions. 


How those animals came to Idgah there, I do not know. I do not know whether the 
enquiry will be able to prove it, but I can give my experience. When I go on tour, quite 
often an animal gets on to the road, or parth. And although I am surrounded by security 
people, it is not always possible to drive it away. It gets in between the legs of police and 
so on, whether it is a dog, or a goat or a pig or any other small animal. This has been my 
perscnal experience not on one but on numerous occasions. I am not saying whether 
somebody did or did not do it deliberately. What I am saying 1s, let us look at these matters 
calmly and in a way so that in future such things can be prevented. Certainly, the enquiry 
has to be thorough and effective and the action should be strong. But let us take this 
opportunity to see how we can improve the situation in the future. I have myself said times 
without number that what we need is a thorough revamping of the administration, of the 
thinking and training of the police. But somehow when we start to take steps, then there 
is also an uproar. Any change is resented. The pace of change and development make the 
task very much difficult for a country like ours. I would personally welcome and I have 
asked for the cooperation of all not once but on many occasions. 


About the National Integration Council I am sorry there has been delay. All the papers 
are ready, the names are ready. But it has become a very unwildy body, although we are 
having it because we promised to do so. I do not know whether as a body it can be terribly 
effective. We do want to implement the decisions that we take and also to review those 


decisions in the light of later developments. 


I want once more to express my deep sympathy for all those who have suffered— 
whether in Moradabad or other parts of the country—and I pledge to all the people of 
India—and especially to the minorities and the Harijans—that we are deeply concerned 
about their safety of life, of limb, of property and the safety of their nghts. They should 
feel secure and have a feeling that they have a rightful place in this country which is theirs 
as much as anybody else’s. They have fought for freedom, they have shed their blood; 


621 


even in the wars after freedom, they have fought against Pakistan. They have fought 
bravely; they have won the highest medal and awards that they could win. I am not referring 
to the Muslims alone, but to all other minorities. They have shared the sacrifices and they 
have an equal right to anything which this nation can build in the future. But we can build 
only if we view things calmly and away from the emotional aspect, if we try to face facts. 


Communal attitudes have been held by some people. It is no use getting touchy about 
it. If they have changed, let them not do it in future. We shall give full support if people 
give up those attitudes. Once again, I thank the hon. Members for their cooperation. 


fe kk a ae ak ae oe के 


Sir, I have left out an important point on which I shall take only one minute. Reference 
was made to foreign money and I believe some countries were mentioned. I think this 1s 
most unfortunate, Sir. Money does come from abroad. It comes to certain educational 
institutions. For instance, in Moradabad there is an Indo-Arab institute. But it would not 
be right or fair to confuse this with the present incidents because such allegations will 
only create misunderstandings amongst our friends and affect international relationships. 


622 : 


Communalism* 


Actually, the turn was that of another Member from the Opposition. But since I have 
a message from the Rajya Sabha that they would like me there—I have asked permission 
from the Speaker to say a few words. 


Sir, I appreciate the words which you said at the beginning before this Motion was 
moved, and the manner in which you urged restraint on us all. 


It is true that we in the Government were not happy about having this debate on the 
very first day, and the reason was not that we wanted to avoid it; in fact, we very clearly 
said that we did not wish to avoid it, but we felt that since there was going to be a bundh, 
and since there was the other move on the part of the Akali Dal, anything said here might 
be misunderstood and have adverse repercussions. 


This was our only reason for wanting a postponement. So far as the date is concerned, 
who chose it ? I certainly did not. I was informed by you; and so far as I know, it was the 
hon. Members opposite who chose the date, to which our Ministers agreed. It is not my 
intention to reply to all the points raised. The reply will be given by my colleague, the 
Home Minister. But since my name has been brought into the debate time and again— 
and I must confess that some Members have not spoken in consonance with the advice 
which you have given—I should like to take up some points. 


Shri Vajpayee has gone into some detail. His words are always eloquent. I am a little 
afraid of eloquence; I am a very plain-speaking straight forward person, and I have noticed 
how eloquence of this kind quite often hides other ideas. If you can discern those other 
thoughts under his eloquence. 


Much of what he said had a veneer of truth, yet was a little bit away from the truth 
(Interruptions). Well, no, I won’t say half truth....(/nterruptions). 


mc ah मर ae aft af ae अं ah 


I am trying to do that**. I don’t want to go into all the details. For instance, mention 
was made of the religious demands. Whatever I said about these religious demands later 


* Participating in the debate on the Adjournment Motion regarding the situation in Punjab leading to communal 
violence and confrontation between CRPF and a section of the people both in Punjab and Haryana, 


LS. Deb., 28 February, 1984, cc. 580-94. 
** Replying to Shri Atal Bihari Vajpayee’s remarks, “Anyway you put the record straight” and “You tell us about 
details”. 


on, had been told to the Akali leadership and the Sants. When the Sants were here, I told 
them quite clearly what we could agree to. I have not moved from that position: but they 
have moved from their position. They changed their view on the timings they wanted for 
the transmission. There are various other changes. I don’t think I should go into all those 
minute details. I repeat that I had clarified how much we could agree to and why we could 
not agree to the other demands. For instance, why we could not allow a transmitter; why 
we could not give the longer timing of the 3 hours for the transmission. Originally I thought 
they had agreed to between half an hour and one hour. Later the Akalis asked for increased 
time. So, in order to be conciliatory, we agreed to 1'/, hours plus half, that is 1'/, hours in 
the morning and half in the evening. In this manner, at every step, we tried to meet what 
they said. You asked, “why was this announced in the Gurdwara?” I did not think I was 
making an announcement; I thought my announcement had already been made to the Akali 
leadership. It was not formally written down, nor do I think that we could make such an 
official announcement until it was fully accepted, and we had some reason to believe that 
things would not go beyond. Actually they did go beyond. What I said in the Gurdwara 
was what I had told the Akali leadership, what I have since said at many public meetings. 
Nothing that I am now saying is new; it has all been said in public and in private on a 
number of occasions. 


ae aie ak mK भर Ok aie oft ah 


If we had agreed to transmission of the Gurbani, why did we not go ahead with it ? 
Because the laying of transmission wires was not allowed. We had even appointed people 
for the work. But this needs cooperation from the other side concerned; and this is the 
case in other matters also. 


So far as not selling tobacco or meat is concerned, this has nothing to do with the 
Central Government. It is concerned with municipal laws. We told the Akalis to take the 
matter up with the municipal authorities and that if it came to us in any form we would 
support it. In this issue also there was some variation as to whether it should be the same 
area as in Hardwar and Varanasi or whether it should cover the whole city. I am giving, 
these as examples. What was in our hands to accept, we accepted though with some slight 
modification where we thought that it was not good for the country or it could have other 
repercussions. If you are going to have a three-hour transmission from one Gurdwara how 
can you Say that you will not have if from other Gurdwaras, from temples, from mosques 
and churches? You simply cannot. That would mean not having any other programmes. 


These are some of the reasons. Some Opposition Members have differed. I do not want 
to name the Parties, I think all of you know who said what. Initially several political parties 
and their own reasons and their own objections to one or other of the demands. Some agreed 
to some demands, some did not agree to those but agreed to others and so on. 


मै मै भर मर्ज मंद ae 2 मे 


The Congress?* So far as the Central Government is concerned, there was no ambiguity. 
I made it clear when I met the Akalis long before the tripartite came into the picture. Some 


* Replying to Prof. Madhu Dandavate’s question, “Does it include Congress (I)” ? 


624 


matters which were mentioned here were told to them before the tripartite talks, before 
you talked to them formally; privately you may have talked to them but before you talked 
to them formally, these things were made clear. It is after we thought that we had disposed 
of the whole matter, only the religious demands were before me, here in this Parliament 
House in Room No. 9, when I thought that the meeting was over and I got up to say 
‘Namaskar’ because of other previous engagements, then they said, “No, no, that is not 
the main thing; the main questions are of the river waters and territory”. Until then there 
was no mention of river waters or territory. 


With regard to the All India Gurdwara Act, we said, “we have only one objection which 
is that the other Gurdwaras are in different States. They have their own elected boards or 
committees and we feel that all concerned should be consulted.” 


| am sorry to say that I do not remember the number of Gurdwaras. Perhaps the Home 
Minister may know but it has kept changing. First it was a large number. Then it came 
down. Now the latest figure varies from 10 to 30. 


i मं: मर ae मंद मर a ah कं 


wo 


Our point was that local consent was necessary”. If they agreed, there was no quarrel. 
I have only met the Sants twice. It was in 1981, if I am not mistaken. I put my point of 
view before them on those occasions. I have not moved from my stand. 


Now with regard to river waters, I was a little unhappy about the way things were 
going. It is not a good precedent, it is not a good tendency to go back on awards. The 
Shah Commission gave some ruling. Then there were other awards. What is the proof, 
what is the guarantee, who will give the guarantee, that if we now come to a new agreement, 
it will be considered binding, final and enduring? This was the only question and the only 
hesitation in my mind. However, when they stressed that this was very important, I agreed 
that the water dispute could be referred to a tribunal. 


The Speaker has already chided one of our Members for mentioning that there were 
three years in which all this could have been sorted out. I am not repeating the story. But 
it is a fact which must be kept in mind. That was the time to sort it out when all the 
surrounding States were also allies of the Janata Party Central Government. When the Akalis 
were in the Central Government and they had their own Government in Punjab. Obviously 
if that period of three years was not long enough to settle it, I think, it is very unfair to say 
that these two years are too long a period. We have not rested—we have had bilateral and 
tripartite meetings. In between we got messages from people who acted as mediators. Some 
messages said that the Akalis would prefer to have bilateral rather than tripartite talks. We 
had all kinds of people going back and forth. I even meet some people whom I would not 
normally have seen, who were on the extremist side, only because of my deep desire for a 


* Replying to Prof. Madhu Dandavate’s remark, “They made it clear that they would insist only in the case of the 
historic Gurudwaras and that too with local consent”. 


solution, to come nearer to an understanding. But all the same, the situation kept on 
coritinuously changing in some way or the other. What were the pressure? Somebody has 
asked. Who was not for an agreement? Obviously it is those who are more extreme. These 
extremists have always been there. They may not be the same extremists who are now 
shooting people. There were extremists within themselves. But once the extremists asserted 
themselves, it was not possible for the moderates to come to an agreement, however much 
they wished it. This was my assessment after talking with the Akalis that even though some 
were in favour of an agreement, there would be pressure on them. There is no pressure on 
us. We knew how far we can go. Now as regards some issues, they concerned other States 
as well. We told the Akali leadership that if they could get together with the Haryana people, 
with the opposition parties there and with our party and sort out the matter, we would agree. 
But there exist more than one party. Somebody had quoted what one of our party Members 
has said. It is true. We do not have the kind of monolithic rigidity as you have in your 
party. We do not want to have that kind of rigidity. But I must confess that this creates 
problems for us. I am not saying that it is an easy way. Everybody has his own view. 
Everybody expresses his own view. And unfortunately, when it is a question between State 
and State, then most people divide not according to their party but according to the States. 
We have seen this in many other States, whether it is a communal problem or whether it 
is a language problem. 


I think somebody spoke about the police standing by. It is true that to some extent this 
has happened. It has happened in Haryana, it has happened in Punjab, it has happened in 
West Bengal and Assam and perhaps in other States. We are not happy about it. I am not 
saying this to blame the Opposition or to pick a quarrel with them. These are facts of life 
which we have to keep 1n view and which we must try to sort out together. We must try to 
build that kind of spirit of secularism. Not all the people who are in the Opposition are 
secular—I am sorry to say that. And I think you know it. I am not going into that. 


I am grateful that Chaudhary Charan Singh—was less vitriolic than his usual self in 
his words. He blamed our Government in Kerala for taking the cooperation of the Muslim 
League. The first coalition was with the Marxists. But so far as the BLD, as it was then 
called, is concerned—I am told by my Muslim friends—they entered into a poll alliance 
with the Muslim Majlis to fight the UP Assembly elections in 1974. In 1977 the Muslim 
Majlis continued as members of the alliance and in the Janata Party they were treated as 
belonging to the Lok Dal faction. In the BLD quota I have the names of those who were 
there, but I do not think we need go into that in 1979 when Chaudhary Saheb formed his 
government, he secured the official support of the Muslim League, and the President of 
the Muslim Majlis was taken as Communications Minister. I am not blaming anyone. | 
am just quoting these facts because of the attempt to project a different picture. In 1980 
also both in the Parliament elections and later on in the U.P. elections, they fought together. 
So, this is how you can be eloquent you can sound very right but when one digs below 
the surface, one finds that facts are quite different. 


It is quite true that I have said that we would not force Hindi on the southern States. 
Why? Not because I do not love Hindi or I do not want the country to have one language; 


fee ee ora 
2 1 pat’ ८22 
as SP a asi pn 
eon Bee पके ail Ae 
eee ald ate, 


I think this is important for the whole of India. I believe strongly in the three-language 
formula. I think it is important to have Hindi as a national link language. I think it is 
important to have English as an international like language. In today’s world we cannot 
get on without it, but it should not in any way denigrate the importance of Hindi. This is 
what we believe in and we have continuously tried to propagate. But what is the situation? 
The South feels strongly and you know what happened when there was a movement for 
Hindi in the North, and what the reaction was in the South? I went down there are talked 
to the students. When I arrived there, they were saying : ‘Down, down, Hindi’. I said why 
don’t we all meet together and say up, up Tamil, why say ‘down’ to anything? Let us have 
Tamil in your State but I would like you to learn Hindi also. Every time I have been to the 
South I have stressed this aspect. I am glad to say that a lot of people are learning Hindi 
even in Tamil Nadu. But they will not learn Hindi if they think that you are forcing it 
down their throats. This is the point. They will learn it if they think it is useful to them, 
they will learn it if you have the proper books in Hindi that are worth reading. I do not 
mean that Hindi literature is not worth reading but I do mean that books on science, books 
on various modern subjects which are necessary today are not appearing in Hindi or in 
our regional languages. This is our great difficulty in promoting these languages.: We have 
been giving them every encouragement but instead of just raising such slogans to have 
more Hindi, I wish people would interest themselves in getting original writings on these 
contemporary subjects, getting translations of modem books which come out. In Europe 
if a book comes out in any one language, within a month or so, it 1s translated in all other 
European languages. This is how those languages grow. They are not dependent on the 
other languages but we are dependent so far as various sophisticated subjects are concerned. 


It is true that some people advised our entering the Gurdwara. I am not going to take 
names. I do not want to start a quarrel nor do I say that it 1s the entire Opposition but 
there are individuals in the Opposition who have been saying that we should enter the 
Gurdwara. I am entirely with the House that no place should be made a sanctuary for those 
who are wanted for any crime. No place should be allowed to collect arms. But in taking 
any action we have to calculate the repercussions. Will they be such as would destroy our 
very aim ? That is why at every step we have to go a little slowly. You are blaming me for 
delaying matters but I can assure you that I have not delayed. There have hardly been a 
day in these years when I have not been in touch through somebody, when I have not 
been getting messages, sending messages, meeting people of the Opposition and trying to 
find some way out. We have done our best to resolve these issues in an amicable and 
constructive spirit. 


I have not got up today, or at any time, to blame and party. My quarrel is not with any 
political party. It is not with the Akali leadership. When we fought the British, we did not 
fight the British as a people; we fought imperialism. We make that distinction continuouly. 


Today our fight 1s with this type of extremism, this type of chauvinistic thinking, this 
type of sectarianism. It does not matter who practices it. It is somebody in my party, 
certainly that person will be punished. If it is somebody in another party, he also should 
be dealt with. 


_ When I saw a particular leader of the Opposition, I told him of the posters which 
hts party had brought out and pointed out that they were not conducive to communal 
harmony. That is why we were worried that there might be trouble and people might get 
excited. But fortunately, good arrangements were made, people also cooperated and the 
day passed off peacefully. 


But I should like to ask the House, is it a good custom to have bandhs in this manner, 
whether it is the Government’s or the Opposition ? I am not going into this argument here.... 


ak 2 He मं: hh aK मंद a 


This is a question on which we can sit and come to an understanding. It is not we who 
started this business of bandhs. One can at least understand an opposition party having a 
bandh. But I am not able to understand how the Government can have a bandh against its 
Government.... 


I think the main purpose of this discussion was to condemn some of these unfortunate 
happenings. I add my voice to such condemnation. I think we all feel very strongly. I have 
spoken of how criminals are sheltered, the arms collection, the killings, putting people on 
the ‘hit list’ and shooting absolutely innocent people one by one. It is rightly pointed our 
that even in the Punjab most of the people killed, I think were Sikhs. 


a ac oe Me aK a | WK मर a 


I stand corrected*. But a number of them were Nirankaris and others. Now take the 
latest murder of a young man. He did not have a beard and that was the only reason. I do 
not know him at all. I only know what I have red in the papers and what I have been told. 


a ae मर ae 2k और a मर मर 


His real brother was with him and he had a turban and a beard.** We condemn all 
such things. 


We equally condemn what has happened in Harayana. It is a matter of shame that any 
mob should work itself into this kind of frenzy and indulge in such acts. I agree that it is 
no excuse to Say that it was a reaction. 


It may have been a reaction, but now we must move out of these attitudes where we 
have such reactions. This is where we seek the cooperation of all the Opposition. If they 
want to blame me, Sir, let them. I have faced blame and Opposition since I was.three or 
four years old, from the time of our freedom struggle. 


We 2 गैर me मर अर ae ie मं 


You were not there but I was.*** And I have faced it not from you at that time but 
from others, like you. Whatever it is, I am only saying that I am used to it. It does not 


* Replying to Mr. Speaker’s remark, “No”. 
** Agreed to the remark made by Mr. Speaker “His real brother was with him”. 
*** Replying to Shri Atal Bihari Vajpayee who intervened to say ‘““We were not there then”’. 


bother me. But it does bother me when in a moment of such grave crisis you are more 
concerned with blaming rather than with finding a way out. This is what is worrying me. 


On the very first day, this House has expressed its deep sympathy and condolences 
with the families of these who have lost their lives. I think we should once again express 
those sentiments. Our hearts are also with all those who have suffered in other ways whether 
because their religious symbols have been desecrated or for whatever reason. Perhaps in 
other parts of the world such matters do not have much meaning, but for Indians they do. 
So, regardless of which religion we belong to 0 00 not belong to, we should be 
understanding and sympathetic towards the religious feelings of others. Therefore, to them 
also we express our deepest sympathy. Let us join in a strong desire to work for a society 
where this sort of a thing does not happen. Sir, we need to take this whole problem above 
the political plan . But unfortunately politics has come into it. 


Somebody has said we should have a broader base. In an election, some win and some 
lose. If the person who loses says that he will not wait until the next election but must 
have some Government post immediately, then our type of democracy cannot last. This 
matter has to be considered (/nterruptions). No, a Presidential system will not solve the 
problem because elections to Parliament will remain and should remain. 


ie मंद oc a aie ae ae CK 


The police slipped up*. For myself I can assure the House that we had ordered his 
arrest. 1 don’t know when and why he came to Delhi. We hoped he would be arrested in 
Bombay. That is where the warrant had been issued. 


Sir, I don’t want to take more time of the House, but I should like to repeat that the 
real point which we have to stress is how to keep vigilant. I know the Opposition Members 
sometimes get irritated when I talk of the wider aspects. 


But I don’t believe that these problems in India are isolated incidents. Some aspects 
are local, some are national and some are international. But any kind of divisive atmosphere 
gives opportunity for outside interference. I have no doubt that such interference does take 
place, such provocation does take place. I have earlier said that this is so not only within 
India. I do not feel that there are elements which do not want this sub-continent to cooperate 
and to speak with one voice on various problems. So it does not. There powerful elements 
whom it does not suit that we should be strong. By ‘we’ I mean not only India, but our 
region. You can See it in global economic policies and in the many pressures that are put 
on developing countries. India is not unique in this. India is not the only one which suffers. 
But India can stand up because we are big. We can stand up because we have a tradition; 
we can stand up because the whole nature of our freedom fight was such that we still 
have the flame of freedom in us. It is not so easy for smaller countries. That is the reason 
why the people look to us. It is not some thing for us to be proud of or to boast about. We 
consider other developing countries as our partners and I hope they consider us as their 


* Responding to Smt. Pramila Dandavate's question, “Why is Bhindrawale not arrested?” and the further query, 
‘Why did he come 0 Delhi 7” 


629 


~ partners. But they know that we can speak up on various issues where they themselves 
could get into great trouble. These are the wide questions we face. In trying to always 
brink the debate down to a low level, I do not think we.are serving our country or our 
people. 


Once again my plea is that no matter what our differences—we obviously will always 
have them, we would not be sitting on opposite sides, 1f we did not have them, many of 
you who are sitting together also have differences. They may not surface now, but 
nevertheless we know that they are there and you know that they are there—but the question 
is that in spite of these differences, we should see on what items can we get together, on 
what times can we show to the world that we are united. 


Prof. Dandavate said something about the British Parliament sitting during the war 
and our Parliament during the Bangladesh war. There is a big difference. At that time we 
were united against an outside force; this time there may be an invisible outside force, but 
we are not in a war. Here the fight, the quarrel is amongst ourselves and once a quarrel 
takes on this kind of communal overtones, we know from experience how a little word 
can be misinterpreted and spark off a fire. I have seen communal riots sparking not today, 
but way back in the thirties in the U.P. Two boys on bicycles collide. If they are both Hindus, 
nothing happens; 1f they are both Muslims, nothing happens. But if one happens to be a 
Hindu and one happens to a Muslim in no time trouble can start. When you have this 
atmosphere, then you have to be much more careful than in any other situation. I do not 
know whether all of us have a communal streak. Sometimes it seems the secularism is 
only skin-deep with some of us. Unless we combine to root out this evil from our country, 
we shall not be able to go ahead in any direction and this Parliament will not be serving 
its real duty. As somebody said, we are here, each of us is elected from one constituency, 
but once we come to Parliament we represent the nation, we do not merely represent one 
region or constituency. So it is with this attitude that we should function. 


Sir I have taken much of your time, I meant to speak only for a few minutes but I do 
feel very strong on this issue, I have spoken up on communalism before. I think that many 
of my own personal troubles have arisen because of this forthrightness. For a long time I : 
have been the target of attack, but I shall continue to speak up because this is the biggest 
divisive factor in our country and if the country is divided, then the country cannot be 
strong and if the country is not strong, obviously we cannot guard ous freedom or anything 
else. 


7 


SOCIAL WELFARE AND PROTECTION 
OF WEAKER SECTIONS 


Atrocities on Harijans* 


Sir, I rise with a very heavy heart to express my sense of shock, sorrow and, if I may 
say So, Shame on these barbarous atrocities which have taken place, and even more, that 
we should be so lacking in social consciousness after all these years that such incidents 
are happening all over the country. 


It is, as one hon. Member has said, a national shame and I think we should not utilise 
this occasion to speak about one aspect or another. We do all of us share this shame and 
the only way in which we can wipe it out is at least now, instead of blaming one another, 
to try and see how we can work together to change attitudes, and to try and create a better 
atmosphere for our brothers and sisters who are Harijans, who are tribals and who are in 
the minorities. 


Prof. Mukerjee said that we are burdened with the weight of thousands of years, but 
the weight is increased perhaps a hundredfold, on those who are not merely small minorities 
but vast number under-privileged, who have had not only the burden of history but the 
burden of being oppressed by their own brothers for these thousands of years. It is up to 
us to see how we can lighten the burden. It is not an easy task because of the numbers 
involved and even more so, because of the habits of thought and of living. It needs a 
revolution, a revolution in thinking, and it needs tremendous courage, intellectual courage, 
moral courage and even physical courage in order to tackle this tremendous problem. And 
it is a problem which we cannot tackle merely by giving jobs. That is important; I will not 
deny the importance of it. It is important to give equality of opportunity, but it is in our 
daily handling of these situations, in the way in which we behave towards these people, 
that the change has to come, and it 1s only when that change comes that the other things 


will also be possible. 


We have to get together to fight all such feelings of class of caste and of communalism. 
We must also get together to refrain from making provocative statements or speeches. We 
must get together to calm emotions when they arise. Mrs. Pandit mentioned about the fear 
in some communities in Allahabad. I have myself seen such fear in the eyes of the citizens, 
and as rightly pointed out, fear is the most dangerous of emotions. When one is afraid, 
one is not in control of oneself. Therefore, we must see that conditions are not created in 
which any community has a feeling of insecurity. These are the two greatest dangers. 


* Participating in the discussion on the Statement made by the Home Minister regarding ‘Incidents relating to Harijans’ , 
LS. Deb., 4 April, 1968, cc. 2406-08. 


ae * a RS 3 हर = os na 
० | 
SS 


९; Ay see 
Ke os x SAS 
32400: 2000:/:20 7८225 
ONS 
‘ s कं te 


We have talked a great deal today in the debate on the Ministry of External Affairs on 
" Pakistan and China. I believe that we are fully able to meet those dangers, but if this danger 
within our country is not met, then we can fall prey to outside enemies. Today it is urgent 
that we work together to create equal opportunities for all our citizens, specially those who 
are underprivileged and that we work to strengthen the fundamental unity of our people. I 
cannot find words which are adequate to condemn these barbarous and heinous crimes. I 
cannot comprehend the callousness, the insensitivity and the inhumanity of those who just 
watched a young boy being burnt to death. But, as I said earlier, it is not enough to blame 
these people. We have to blame the whole social system. It is not enough to blame the 
social system, unless we are prepared to take action to change that system and to create 
some hope of the basic human values to our people. Certainly those who are guilty must 
be punished and punished harshly. These are cases in which there should be no question 
of any kind of pity. But I would appeal to the House and to the country as a whole-let us 
get together and evolve ways of functioning in which we can take the necessary steps— 
economic, political and social steps—to create the necessary foundation on which a new 
life can be built and the equality and other basic rights, which are the dues of all our people, 
can be given to them. 


Welfare of Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes* 


I am glad that this debate has taken place and also that we were able to extend the 
time for it so that many more of our friends could express their views. It is a subject of 
very special concern to us all, because we know that so much still has to be done to remove 
the social disabilities from which our brothers and sisters of the Scheduled Castes and the 
Scheduled Tribes are suffering. 


There are many reasons for this, but the most patent reason is our traditional attitudes 
which have been ingrained over many centuries, and which we must now al] endeavour 
to change. There is much that the Government can do and which the Government are trying 
to do, but we must understand that this change simply cannot happen merely by 
governmental order. What we need is a major social upheaval. We believe that all such 
changes and upheavals must be through the consent of the people and through peaceful 
means. That is why I welcome this debate, because to have the co-operation of the different 
parties in creating the right atmosphere in our villages and cities is a very important part 
of this whole campaign, and it should be taken up as a programme which is of national 
importance to all political parties, to all non-political people and to all individuals. But 
we all know that social changes especially of such nature, of habits which have become a 
part of many people’s daily lives will be slow to achieve and also painful to achieve. 


The legislative framework and political institutions we have provided can only influence 
the pace and direction of change, but by themselves they cannot consummate. That is 
something for us to take up outside this House. We must bend all our energies to accelerate 
the progress and suggest every possible kind of improvement in our existing approach and 
take all necessary steps. At the same time we must not allow this legitimate anxiety to 
cloud the significant progress which has already been made. The progress 15 significant in 
relation to what the situation was when we began. It 1s not significant if you consider what 
the situation should be. I am using the word ‘significant’ 1n that context. 


The advance in education has been considerable. We know, it is not enough. I fully 
appreciate the remarks made by the hon. Member** who spoke before me, that there are 
still many difficulties which boys from the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes still 
find in getting jobs, and even in getting the right kind of education. I think that apart from 


* Replying to the debate on a Motion regarding the Reports of the Commissioner for Scheduled Castes and Scheduled 
Tribes and the Committee on Untouchability, LS. Deb., 4 September, 1970, cc. 67-72. 


** Dr. Sankata Prasad. 


ei, 1 कल, Bon पक व Piece cent ntaets 
02 दि toate 2260 /:% CAR 


635 


ensuring that they get education; we must also ensure that those who are the most talented 
shduld have special opportunities, whether of tuition or of special training or whatever 
will help them to attain the standard, because I believe that if any of them are below 
standard, it is not because of any inherent weakness, but because their talents and 
capabilities have not been given the opportunity to blossom. That opportunity we must do 
our best to provide. 


I spoke of advance in education. As the House perhaps knows, over 91 lakh pre-matric 
scholarships have been given to Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe members and about 
12 lakh post-matric scholarships have been given. 


This year 1.88 lakh post-matric scholarships will be given. There has been criticism in 
this debate of the rate of post-matric scholarships and that this has not been increased and 
also that the upper limit of the means test for Scheduled Castes has not been raised. Hon. 
Members know that there is no means test for the Scheduled Tribes. The value of 
scholarships for Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes compares favourably with the rate 
of the Education Ministry’s national merit scholarship scheme. Thus those students who 
receive the scholarships are equated with meritorious students from the general population. 
It is only because financial resources are so limited that it seems preferable to give 
scholarships to as many students as possible rather than to restrict the number of 
scholarships because of an increase in their value. 


There has been a matter of great shame to us all. I refer to the atrocities that take place 
from time to time. I do not know whether they were taking place before and it is only that 
more of them come to notice now; I do not know whether even now all of them come to 
notice. But whatever it 1s, the situation is a shameful one. It is one in which the Government 
should take every precaution to see that such things do not happen, and if they do, to take 
the strictest measures to see that those who are guilty receive strict and severe punishment. 


Perhaps hon. Members will remember that when we took up the question of communal 
harmony in the National Integration Council, we included the question of the Harijans and 
the Scheduled Tribes along with it; that is, that all the measures that were to be taken for 
communal harmony should extend to this section also with regard to discrimination against 
any member of the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes, not only with regard to jobs 
and so on but also with regard to security of life and belongings. 


A suggestion has been made about the imposition of fines. This question has been 
discussed with regard to the communal situation. Opinion is very much divided. Certainly 
the question can be considered and the suggestion should be considered. 


We know that the bulk of the landless are from the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled 
Tribes, and that is why it is important that we should expedite all our measures for land 
reform. But I would like to say only one thing to my hon. friends that sometimes in their 
desire to have land, they cast an eye on our forests, and, much as I should like the landless 
to have land, it is very important for the country also to have a certain amount of forest 
land, and we must keep this in view. In the distribution of land, this aspect should be kept 
in view that a minimum amount of forest which is necessary should be left for trees and 


636 


wild life otherwise our rainfall and climate will be affected and ultimately the population 
also be affected. 


This problem is not merely one that concerns the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled 
Tribes. It is a problem which concerns the entire nation and all communities. 


ae oie मर मंद ae ie ai ae मं 


Housing is extremely important. We have taken up this also, and I hope something 
can be done in this matter. We are trying, we are looking into the matter of house sites. I 
do not know whether everybody can be provided, but certainly a beginning can be, and 
should be, made in this respect.... 


a मंद मर 2 He जद ae ak मं 


It is not fair to make allegations against any particular person.* I feel that this is a 
matter not only of concern and of deep regret, but I have no hesitation in saying that such 
attacks are deplorable and shameful, and it is the duty of the Government, the State 
Governments, the Central Government and also all political parties and all the residents 
of each of the areas where such things take place, to be vigilant to see that such feelings 
do not grow, and where they find some such feeling, whether due to caste or other reasons, 
they must immediately draw the attention of the authorities, and we on our part, should 
see that the police and also the people are ever vigilant, and that they also feel involved 
and care about these matters. I do not want to make a general remark or to blame anybody, 
but it is true that when caste feelings exist in society, they also infiltrate in some of the 
people who are in charge. It should be our endeavour and our duty, to see that such feelings 
are wiped out from the minds of Indian citizens. Only then can we enable all the Indian 
people to enjoy the rights and privileges which freedom has given them. 


ic He मु ic 24 अर ae मर he 


I am only making a brief intervention to express my concern in this matter. The Minister 
will deal with all the specific points which are being raised. I should only like to take this 
Opportunity to pledge once again my unceasing attention and effort for this important cause 
to see that we achieve our ideal of equality in our country. 


* Responding to Shri Sheo Narain’s remark, ‘‘What did Thimma Reddy say in Andhra....” 


637 


०८३० ०-०००२०२०४८ 
25322 Base: Rea 
nes Ne के rere, 

Serer veate ee 
rit टशण इक 


7 

पट 
मु iY 
ety a 
. 

Baie 

१ 


Rehabilitation of Disabled Servicemen and War Widows* 


During the last few difficult days, the thoughts of the nation have been with the gallant 
officers and men of our Army, Navy, Air Force and the Border Security Force. Soon the 
- lights will go up in our cities but in many hearts darkness will remain. However proud a 
nation or a family is of sacrificing its best for the country, this sentiment cannot help the 
widow in grappling with the problems of daily life, or the children who are bereft of a 
father’s guiding hand. For brave young men, straight and strong in body, to be suddenly 
without a limb, is not only a matter of physical pain but of mental shock and agony. None 
of these want pity or charity. What they need is compassionate understanding, and assistance 
to re-adjust themselves to the sudden and unforeseen change in their lives. We must assure 
them that life stl has much to offer them and they in tum have much to offer society. 


I have been deeply concerned with this question since 1962 when I became Chairman 
of the Citizens’ Central Council. Then and again in 1965, I visited almost every military 
hospital along our borders and also our rehabilitation centres. I have been haunted by the 
thought that we have not done enough. 


The lives of martyrs cannot be valued in terms of money. Their sacrifice is beyond 
recompense. But a grateful nation remembers its debt, and its obligation to them to mitigate 
the sufferings of their wives and children. Government have now decided to rectify, in so 
far as possible, the deficiencies in our programmes for the war disabled and the families 
of those who have died fighting. 


Since our aim has been to give special help to the weakest in our society, at this moment 
we should not forget the other physically handicapped and disabled. They also need our 
help. They can, and should, become useful workers in various fields. Many of them show 
special aptitude for certain vocations which compensate for their handicap. 


For all these handicapped, the problem is one of providing the appropriate training 
and opportunity. Hence, we propose to bring a Bill before Parliament to make it obligatory 
for all employers who employ more than 25 people in the public as well as the private 
sector to reserve a certain proportion of their vacancies for the physically handicapped. 
Many industrialists and employers have already assured me that they have begun to do 
this and will pursue the matter further. I hope that even those employers who are not covered 
by this enactment will come forward voluntarily to follow this law. 


* Statement regarding facilities for disabled servicemen and war widows, L.S. Deb., 18 December, 1971, cc. 14-17. 


The public sector undertakings are required to reserve vacancies for ex-servicemen 
including the disabled. However, it is true that the position regarding actual employment 
18 not satisfactory. Government have, therefore, decided to issue a directive to all 
undertakings, where necessary by amending their Articles of Association, to fill vacancies 
on the same basis as Government departments. Such a directive would enlarge the 
reservations for disabled servicemen. 


Coming to employment under Government, there ate already orders for the 
rehabilitation of disabled officers of the defence forces in civil posts—classes I and II— 
by relaxation of age limits, medical standards etc. Effective implementation of these 
facilities will be ensured. As regards disabled ex-servicemen, preference will be given to 
them ॥ the 10 per cent and 20 per cent vacancies reserved for ex-servicemen generally in 
classes III and IV posts respectively. In addition, in certain circumstances vacancies up to 
another 7 per cent will be made available only to disabled ex-servicemen. 


In the unreserved quota of vacancies in both these classes disabled servicemen already 
get some preference. It has now been decided to give them first priority along with 
retrenched government employees. It has also been decided that upto 2 members of the 
family of a serviceman killed in action will be given priority for employment immediately 
after the retrenched government employees and disabled servicemen. They will be exempted 
from going through the employment exchange. 


We realize that merely expanding the employment opportunities will not be enough. It 
will be equally necessary to assist the disabled ex-servicemen to take full advantage of 
these opportunities. Government propose to arrange a variety of training courses. 


The widows of our fighting men need special consideration. We intend to start schemes 
to train them in skills particularly suited to their requirements. The details are being worked 
out by a small group. 


Government have also decided to meet the full cost of education up to the end of the 
first degree course of the dependents of all personnel of the defence and para military forces 
killed or permanently disabled during the current hostilities. Government will also meet 
the full cost of such dependents who are at present undergoing post-graduate courses. 


We can enact laws, but it is the outlook of the public which makes all the difference. 
Public behaviour towards the handicapped should not be affected by old prejudices. On 
the contrary, we must all help to make them self-reliant again. No longer need such a 


handicap prevent a person leading a full life. 


1 am glad that actuated by the same considerations as the Union Government, several 
State Governments have taken up schemes to assist servicemen and their families through 
land allocation, cash grants, educational stipends etc. I hope that this governmental effort 
will be reinforced by the widest measure of popular support. 


639 


Atrocities on Adivasis* 


Mr. Deputy-Speaker, Sir, I can very well understand the deep and grave concern of all 
parties at the grim tragedy that has taken place. No words are adequate to describe one’s 
SOITOW. 


It is not only this incident but, as the hon. Member** who spoke just now reminded 
us, itis indeed distressing that such things should continue to happen in our country. J am 
fully with the House in their desire that everything possible must be done to see that such 
incidents do not recur. 


My hon. friend, Shri Kartik Oraon, said that the Prime Minister is too high a person. 
Nobody 15 too high a person to deal with questions of injustice or of the sort of a crime 
that has taken place. This is a State subject and accordingly it is not easy for the Centre to 
interfere with these matters. However, some Members of the Opposition have written to 
me about it and I have replied saying that I will discuss with them what can be done in 
similar situations. 


So far as this particular incident is concerned, Shri Mohsin*** will naturally reply. I 
only want to say that an inquiry is proceeding. So far as I know, it is going on all-right. 
There is no complaint now. There were many complaints in the beginning. It is going on 
all right now. We are keeping in very close touch and, should it become necessary, the 
Centre can step in also. This type of crime must be condemned in the strongest possible 
words. ; 


There are certain social attitudes still about which I have spoken many times in the 
House and which we need to change. There are actions which the Government can 
undertake but there is a great deal that we can do in order to arouse public opinion also. 
As the last speaker was saying, it is true that those who are strong do get away with such 
wrong doings. It is only by creating a strong public opinion supported by governmental 
action that such matters can be dealt with. 


This is all 1 wanted to say. I thought I would associate myself with the sentiments of 
deep sorrow and regret at this incident. 


* While participating in a discussion on the reported killings of 14 Santhals and injuries to 36 Santhals by land owners 
in Purnea District of Bihar on 22 November, 1971, LS. Deb., 23 December, 1971, cc. 83-84. 
** Shri Sakti Kumar Sarkar. 


*** The Deputy Minister in the Ministry of Home Affairs. 


Protection and Welfare of Scheduled 
Castes and Scheduled Tribes* 


tThis discussion has been going on for the last one or two days. I have listened to 
some of the speeches in my room. Hon. Members have expressed their anxiety over the 
slow progress of the programmes pertaining to Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes. It 
is not that nothing has been done in this regard. A lot has been done. No doubt, the progress 
has been very slow as compared to what was needed to be achieved, or what we expected. 


Some harsh words have also been spoken. I can understand the feelings of the hon. 
Members. I also share their concern. This is not a new issue. It is an old one. It is not only 
an old but a serious and complicated problem. It is a problem of vast magnitude too. The 
hon. Member has very humbly asked me to do it . It is easy to say so. No doubt, the 
Government can do a Jot but the Government or anybody else cannot change the attitude 
of the people. How to face this situation or how to bring about this change 1s a national 
probiem? This is not a one way traffic. This is not a question of any party or the 
Government. This is a national problem. 


We just now listened to a speech in which the hon. Member** pointed out as to how 
religious fundamentalism, or embracing of other religion, is affecting many people. 
Something in this direction can be done only if we all sit together and treat it as a national 
problem. 


Efforts in this direction are not new. The Congress party has been striving for it from 
the very beginning. Even then people’s attitude has not changed. It implies that our efforts 
were not sufficient. We were lacking in our efforts. Thus all of us have to strive hard for 
changing this attitude in villages, cities, offices as well as in the society as a whole. 


The most painful aspect of the problem is that every now and then news regarding 
burning of houses, injustice or atrocities are reported in the newspapers. I do not find 
appropriate words to condemn these incidents. Last time an incident was discussed here. 
After that I wrote to all the Chief Ministers especially asking them to be more alert and 
careful in such matters, and to make effort so that such incidents do not take place. 


* Participating in the debate on the Motion to consider the Nineteenth Report of the Commissioner for Scheduled 
Castes and Scheduled Tribes for the Year 1969-70, L.S. Deb., 21 November, 1972, cc. 294-312. 


t Original speech in Hindi. 
** Shri Pannalal Basupal. 


641 


However, if any such incident takes place then some action must be initiated immediately 
and a senior officer should be deputed to enquire into it. I.also asked them (Chief Ministers) 
to look personally into such matters. 


I feel that I should discuss this matter with the Chief Ministers once again as to how 
we can check these incidents. Whatever police force we may deploy and whatsoever care 
we may take, our Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes brethren will not feel satisfied 
unless the neighbourers do have a feeling that they will not allow such incidents to happen. 
The hon. Member has rightly said that such incidents are a blot on our society and unless 
such a feeling pervades everywhere it will be difficult, if not impossible, for the Government 
to check abrupt recurrence of these incidents. 


That is why, I say that this question does not pertain to a particular party. This task 
has to be undertaken by all of us and it is for us to ensure that these atrocities are not 
committed anywhere. Our Harian brothers and sisters or tribal brothers should also be 
Vigilant about it. Whenever they feel that some ill will is spreading against them, they 
should immediately bring it to the notice of the concerned authorities. Sometimes such 
incidents do occur abruptly. A petty quarrel may take place and temper may run high. But 
sometimes some propaganda or misunderstanding is spread, which creates division among 
the people, or arouses passions in the society, and then one day the people feel engaged 
and anger takes the form of an incident. Like a boil it develops slowly and then bursts all 
of a sudden. Thus, if it develops slowly then the residents over there will certainly have 
that information and they can report it immediately. 


Now, it is our collective national responsibility to find out ways and chalk out 
programmes for rapid progress in this regard. A conference was held recently. Two points 
were discussed im the conference. In all the Reports of the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled 
Tribes’ Commissioner, attention has been drawn to the fact that the benefits of the 
programmes meant for Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes do not reach the poorest 
and the needy. We want to pay special attention to the fact that the benefits of this 
programme must reach the most backward sections of the society and the ways and means 
must be found out therefor. 


ea मं ae ai ak a ak ak 


Our sister* is right while saying so. I do not know why all these jobs (disposal of 
carcasses) are considered undignified. All these jobs are necessary. But there is no reason 
that a particular section of the society must do such jobs. If such jobs are to be done in the 
interests of the society, any person can do these jobs. As our sister has said, such one or 
two incidents have happened in Uttar Pradesh. The Harijans there refused to do such jobs. 
Thereafter, contracts were given for these jobs. But there is a difficulty in this regard also. 
There is large scale unemployment in the country and if, in such circumstances, these jobs 
are done by others on contract basis, I know an instance in which the Harijans of the village 
made a hue and cry as to why the contract had been given to others?....(/nterruptions)... 


eae, 


642 


Sahodara Baiji, I have understood your point. We are also saying that it cannot be done 
unless we bring about changes in the attitude of the society. Gandhiji also believed that 
no job was undignified. Everybody who lived in his Ashram had to do all jobs. It was not 
that Harijans would do this job and others would do that job. We should also try, whether 
it is a school, a college or an institution, to do all the jobs collectively. We should develop 
the feeling that no job is undignified. All the jobs are essential for the society. But the 
caste based division of labour is harmful for the society itself. Everybody should get an 
opportunity to do the job he likes, and arrangements should be made to dispose of essential 
jobs collectively. It should not be there that a particular caste should do a particular job. 
On this point, I fully agree with you. For this an awareness campaign is must as it cannot 
be done by school education or bookish knowledge, but political and social awareness is 
also needed so that the people could get the right meaning of all such things. As I have 
said, such awareness can generate new ideology and new viewpoint, and we can take 
necessary steps in that direction. 


Our brothers from backward classes should be conscious of their rights, but, I think 
that we should find constructive ways to avoid conflicts forgetting these rights and to make 
rapid progress. We cannot put this responsibility only on the Harijans, but the whole society 
has to take up this responsibility. Whatever may have been the reasons of the casteism at 
anytime, but now the reasons do not exist. Society has changed, India has changed, World 
has undergone changes and is changing at a very fast speed, so why should we adhere to 
such an outdated convention which has always weakend us. Because this not only is bad 
but it hurts people’s feelings as well... 


Casteism has tightened its hold on the Country and has pushed 1 into the backwardness, 
hence, there is no doubt that unless we fight it in full spirit the Country can never achieve 
greatness. Even if we are able to reduce the poverty to some extent, or remove the 
difficulties of the people relating to housing, foodgrains or price rise, but if this casteism 
prevails, and if there is a feeling of high class and low class among the people then this 
country can never achieve the greatness..... 


We have to look into these issues from this angle and while doing so we should not 
hesitate to reprimand or penalise wherever it is unavoidable. My dear sister has said that 
we should enact law. Hence, if there is a need to have a law then we should not step aside 
and should certainly enact such a law, but even then this problem can not be resolved. 


aK HC मर afe मर और oe ah कं 


It is a fact that this is not implemented properly and even if it is implemented, then 
also this problem cannot be resolved through law only, because to achieve this we must 
bring a change in the overall atmosphere, in the very concept of the people and their way 
of life.* There are various laws and if need be, new laws might be enacted, but instead of 
having negative approach we should always resort to some positive ways. We should all 
actively participate together in this important task because whatever favour is being done 


* Replying to Shri K.S. Chawra’s remark : “Problem lies with non-implementation.” 


ih the name of violence or religion or caste is deplorable everywhere, whether it is in India, 
in our sOviety or in other countries. We have always been fighting against it. Therefore 
this sort of behaviour towards anybody should not be there. 


In this regard our mass media whether it is Press, Radio or other agencies can play a 
meaningful role. As I said just now, our programme should not be a limited one. Usually 
it happens that the more powerful sections and those who are well informed derive more 
benefits from it. Thus we have to ensure that the persons who are really in need are helped 
more 


Our Social Welfare Minister has asked here for concrete suggestions from all sides 
with a view to including them in the Five Year Plan. Suggestions have been made for 
making available drinking water, land for constructing houses, facilities for education, 
programme for the extension of nutritious diet, and improvement of Jhuggi-Jhoparis and 
if possible replacement by ‘Pucca’ houses. All these programmes are there. Some significant 
progress has been made during these years especially in regard to providing jobs, education 
etc. The total funds earmarked for education earlier have been increasing year after year, 
and now it has reached up to Rupees 10 crore. 


eo ak i. ae ak ak 


I would like to have a discussion with Opposition parties in this regard as most of the 
issues are State subjects and we have to see as to what extent we can interfere.* It will be 
possible, only if all the parties agree to it. 


eke He a ae मंद मंद 


I do not remember it correctly but so far as my memory serves, this decision was taken 
in the meeting of the National Development Council which has the Chief Ministers of all 
States as its members.** There must be some reason behind it. They always complain that 
when they themselves have to do everything then why the Centre has its control over it. 


Hk etek oko 


That is why I say that if all the Opposition parties support us then this can be done. 
Otherwise, any State can complain about the interference.*** At present our party is ruling 
in many States but it is not the case always. This issue was raised when these States were 
being ruled by other parties. I will look into it later. But it has to be admitted that with the 
increase in the number of beneficiaries, the amount has also been increased. That is why 
we are not able to cater to the needs of everybody with this limited amount. 


* Replying to Shri K.S. Chawra who said, ‘'... The Centre used to give post-matric scholarships till 1968-69 but now 
this matter has been given to the States... The Centre should start giving it again”. 


** Replying to Shri Sadhu Ram’s remark : “Earlier the Centre used to give, but later on it was placed on the States.” 
*** Replying to Shri Shambhu Nath’s remark : “The Centre grants money, it is not being used properly but it is misused.” 


During the discussion here a demand was made to increase this amount and I feel that 
it is justified also. At this moment, I cannot tell you as to how much increase we are going 
to make because different Ministries have to be consulted in this regard. But we are 
definitely going to increase it. The discussion here is taking place at an appropriate time, 
as presently we are also discussing Five Year Plan, hence it would be easier to do such 
things. 


There are certain questions regarding Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes, and no 
doubt about others also, but some questions are more important like that of the education 
The question of education is important as it concerns all of us. The students are demanding 
a change in the education system. It should be made job-oriented, besides it should also 
inculcate the feelings of patriotism, nationalism, integrity and equality. Our Minister is 
considering all these aspects. But we have the experiences of other nations before us and 
the feeling is gaining ground that it is not necessary that all students must go for higher 
education in the universities. In other countries only those students go for higher education 
who intend to conduct research or want to become teacher or do some other job which 
requires higher education. Otherwise rest of the students after completing their school 
education directly go for various training programmes. After completing their training, they 
become fit for their respective trades. But here, the type of general education being imparted 
does not help all of them in getting jobs and it adds to unemployment. But here comes 
another problem; the persons who could not get such educational facilities earlier provided 
say that they have not been able to get degrees as there were no facilities of this kind, but 
now when such facilities are available they are being asked not to obtain degrees. All such 
problems have to be solved through exchange of views with all of you. Suppose we intend 
to make some changes for the good of society but if it gives rise to the feelings of partiality 
then it would not be beneficial as it would create ill feeling and the result would be quite 
adverse. So, the new ideas, which are coming up, have to be discussed with every body, 
and then we can unanimously find out solutions otherwise it may give rise to a feeling 
that something is being done against their wishes, and we do not have such intention at 
all. 


We would like to be benefited from the experiences of other countries of the world as 
well as our own and make some changes in the existing education system. I have said so 
many times that we have made a mistake after independence because we did not change 
the pattern of our education system. I am aware of the complexities prevailing at that time 
and we could not take care of the problems in the field of education because the first and 
foremost question was to protect the independence of our country. We cannot blame 
anybody but there is no doubt that if we had changed the system at that moment, our 
difficulties and problems would not have been so complex today. But now the question is 
whether we can do it or not? Wherever I go and meet the students, they always demand 
that something should be done in this direction, but this 1s possible only if all of us put up 
some suggestions and do not make it a political issue. 


I have nothing special to say but the only thing which I want to put forth is that we 
are concermed about this issue and as I have said, there is a need to do a lot which could 
not be done during these years. We have to appreciate that awareness has spread in the 


miasses. I know that a few years back only the people living in the cities were aware of 
their rights. Now this awareness has spread everywhere. But a large number of the people 
in tribal areas are not aware of their rights even today. Now this awareness is spreading in 
these areas also. It is a step in the right direction, and we hope that the programmes will 
now be implemented effectively. I would like to point out one thing here. It is true you 
are aware and alert but why do you wait for a discussion to be held here and give suggestion 
only then. I feel that whenever something comes to your notice, you should immediately 
put your suggestion by saying whether it can be done in that way. In our view it should be 
done, if possible. I think if something is put forward immediately then it can be 
implemented in a better way. Presentation of these Reports is a regular feature and they 
will continue to be discussed in the House in future also, but we would welcome your 
suggestions on what is happening in your districts and constituencies and how things could 
be improved there. If you look into the matter in such a way that how you can get Central 
or State Government’s assistance for a scheme and what you can do on your own, then I 
think the hurdles coming on the way can be set right. Members have said that the funds 
are not properly utilised in the programme, but you can also look into it in your respective 
constituencies. If all of us jointly take this responsibility to look into the matter that whether 
the programme announced has been launched in your constituency, and whether the same 
is being carned our properly—then I think the programmes announced can be implemented 
more speedily. 


a ae ak ae मैप ak ae oh ak 


Whenever there are some hurdles, you should bring it to our notice immediately.* There 
will be no use if you raise the matter after six months. You tell us at that very moment 
that so and so has put some hurdles in a particular work. You cannot take the responsibility 
of the entire country but you can do it in the case of your constituency. 


9 मं ae a मं ae a मं 


It is not for Parliament to do it, but being a Member of Parliament do you not, have 
any responsibility towards the people of your constituency?** You should take a note 
whether the Harijans and Tribals in your constituency are facing any difficulty. I am not 
saying that it is not our responsibility or it is not the responsibility of the State Government 
but what I intend to say that this will help them if each Member of Parliament tries to 
understand the situation and intimate the problems, it will also make the Government’s 
task easier. Sometimes we see that a programme is good for a particular constituency 
according to its local requirements, but it is very much possible that similar programme 
may not be required in another constituency, thus, some changes may be needed in the 
programme. The people, who are associated with these programmes can explain it in a 
better way. 


Ok कं WK ht 2 7K मं 


* Replying to Smt. Sabodra Bai Rai who said that government servants did not give funds in time. 
** Responding to Shri K.S. Chawra’s question, “Will Parliament do this work?” 


The programmes are meant to be implemented everywhere but the problem is that these 
cannot be started simultaneously everywhere." It is not right to say that the programmes 
are not undertaken in the constituencies represented by the Members of Opposition parties. 


ae ak a oh ak मे मंध मर 


No, it is not so.** We all have to ensure that the work is done expeditiously. We hear 
of tragic stories. We should create such an atmosphere that such tragic events do not take 
place and work is done expeditiously. As I just now said if there are impediments, you 
should come forward and tell us about them. We shall see that these impediments are 
removed. 


af मंद मे a ak मं ah ak 


The suggestion of Shri Shyamnandanji is good ...(/nterruptions).*** Some model 
schools should be set up in the field of education. Howsoever small the problem may be, 
it becomes a big problem because of huge size of our population.... 


* Replying to Shri Hukum Chand Kachwai who said that no work was being done in the constituencies where Members 
of Opposition had won; and that he was mentioning about his own constituency. 
** Replying to Shri Hukum Chand Kachwai who said, “I am saying what is true... .If a constituency elects a Member 
of the Opposition, then the work started there earlier under a Five-Year Plan is stopped.” 
*** Shri Shyamnandan Mishra inter alia wanted to know whether Government could prepare a model (for various fields 
including education) to ensure all round development of Scheduled Castes, Backward Classes and Harijans so that 
on the basis of national consensus it could be implemented in some areas. 


Removal of Economic and Social Injustices to Women* 


Sir, I am not intervening as Prime Minister but as a member of the biggest oppressed 
minority in the world. 


aK भर ok मे: KE कर मेष मेरे मर 


I believe the female population is just a little less than the male population.** 


Some philosophers, poets and hon. Members of Parliament also have spoken soft words 
and said good things about women but these are outweighed by those who have maligned 
women through the ages. Women have been and are the most exploited of any section. If 
a woman is called ‘abla’, as she is in our country, it is not because she is weak in herself 
but because she is so handicapped from birth by customs and social attitudes that she has 
no chance of developing her innate strength. If Harijans are persecuted who suffers the 
most ? It is their womenfolk. 


If there is poverty or shortage it is the women who go without, in order to be able to 
feed their children, their husbands and the other menfolk in the family. If there is war, the 
heaviest burden falls on women. In the family, the wife is usually the cook and servant, 
doctor and nurse and teacher. In societies where men go to war, women have looked after 
the farming, the business and other activities. She has borne the most onerous burdens 
and shouldered the greatest responsibilities. In affluent societies also, she is exploited. She 
is often regarded as an object to play with or to decorate and display the husband’s wealth 
and status. She may be surrounded by luxury, but she does not have the opportunity to 
fully develop her personality and she is largely deprived of the fulfilment that comes from 
participation and effort. 


However, Sir, I have not got up to criticise or complain nor to demand that women 
should attain high positions, but to assert that in asking for equality of opportunity and a 
more respected status 1n society, women are thinking not of themselves but of all mankind. 
In 1923, Kamal Ata Turk said: 


The lack of success of our social structure is due to the contempt in which we have 
held our women. Destiny meets out our span of life, but to live is to be active. And if 


* Participating in the discussion on a Private Member’s Resolution (moved by Shri Indrajit Gupta) regarding the 
‘Measures to Remove Economic and Social Injustices to Women’, LS. Deb., 25 April, 1975, cc. 304-307. 


** Replying to a Member’s remark, “Minority?” 


if re ae 


only some of the members of a social organism are active, whilst the others are inactive, 
that organism becomes paralysed. If a social organism is to work and succeed in life, 
it must satisfy the required conditions and give itself every chance. If, then, our society 
needs science and technology, men and women must gain them equally. Who does not 
know that division of labour dominates life, as it does all fields of endeavour ? Within 
this general division of labour, women must carry out the tasks falling to them, but 
among these tasks is participation in the general activities essential to the common 
prosperity and happiness of all. 


But he goes on to say and I do not agree with his next sentence: 
“Housework 1s but the least and the least important, of women’s duties.” 


I believe the significance of home-making should not be decried, for the home is the 
very foundation of society. What sort of home-life a child has, influences the rest of his 
life, his development and attitudes. Home-making is important enough to demand the 
attention of both parents. At the same time, to confine women to the kitchen is harmful to 
the future of the race. A woman with limited interests and capacity cannot be a good 
housewife, a good mother or a good companion. 


In the early ninth century, there was a synod in Europe to debate whether women were 
human at all, and now in the 20th century, the world has woken up to consider the role of 
women in contemporary society! Let us use this year to find out where we have failed so 
far as laws or their implementation are concerned, to activate existing programmes and, if 
possible, to initiate new ones for women’s health and education, for their employment and 
better conditions of work. But above all, this is an occasion for re-thinking about problems 
of human relationships within societies, within nations and also internationally and to 
change the long entrenched attitudes of mind and behaviour. These attitudes affect the 
behaviour towards the condition of women and our behaviour to other castes and other 
races, and finally in the larger scheme of things people’s behaviour to those who are 
generally less developed, whether they are countries or groups. 


2fe 2 2k मेष मर भर मंः मर और 


Certain specific suggestions have been made in this resolution.* As part of the 
celebrations of the International Women’s Year, certain programmes have been initiated. 
When the axe falls on any kind of financial commitment, it is usually on such programmes. 
I do not know exactly what the Education Minister** is going to say in reply to this 
resolution. But we are trying to coordinate the work done by various voluntary agencies 
with governmental programmes. Obviously, the work cannot end in a year. It can only be 
a beginning. I sincerely hope that some good programmes in all regions with regard to 
health, prevention of disease, literacy and so on will be undertaken. Some have in fact 


* Replying to Shri Shyamnandan Mishra’s remark, “Why not make some specific suggestions in the context of India? 
You are being much too general.” 


** Prof. S. Nurul Hasan. 


alreagy been initiated but as I said earlier, the greatest stumbling block is the mental attitude 
not only ox men but of large numbers of women themselves because they are so conditioned 
by their families and by society around them. I am sure if my hon. friend, Shyam Babu 
and other hon. Members of the House will make up their mind to change their own attitudes, 
the attitude of Parliament and the attitude of society, it will be of great help. 


Status of Women* 


Sir, I shall not take much time of the House. We have just had the pleasure of hearing 
my friend, Smt. Purabi Mukhopadhyay. I have heard her on other occasions also and I 
know that she and my other sisters from this side of the House and I hope brothers from 
all sides have supported the cause of women. In the other House I spoke as a woman to 
draw attention to some of the handicaps from which Indian women suffer, which prevent 
their full development and participation. Indeed I would say that these or similar handicaps 
affect women almost all over the world. But today if I may, I should like to put the question 
in a larger perspective. It has often been said that the level of any society is judged by the 
level of 1ts women. Certainly, it 1s true that the country’s progress can be measured by the 
progress of its women folk. But we have to think carefully about the meaning of ‘progress’. 
My father has quoted someone writing about women. This was not about India but I think 
118 largely true of the Indian woman, even though he wrote it long back, about 20 years 
back. I quote—these are not my father’s words, this is what he has quoted from somebody 
else : “She lives in her own time, in the rhythm of her own history which does not quite 
keep time with the clock of the twentieth century.”’ We still want to keep our own rhythm, 
but we cannot be entirely out of tune with today’s rhythm. The world’s rhythm is a changing 
one. Why can’t we women influence it and give it the right beat? We can develop it if we 
have the opportunity. I think we can evolve a rhythm which 1s timeless and always in tune. 
Men, and unfortunately even women are conditioned by our man-oriented society. Shrimati 
Purabi Mukhopadhyay has correctly said so. We tend to accept the norms which men have 
made and even today when there is talk about equality we do not really examine it closely 
or consider what is good or an ideal situation. We notice only what a man does and wonder 
why we can’t do the same. Very little thought is given to this aspect of its nghtness or 
goodness. Men and most women are unaware of the potential ability of women. Their lives 
are entrapped by pre-conceived notions and attitudes from birth onwards, at every level, 
in school, in college and in social life. This subtracts from the total. It is not only women 
who suffer handicaps. A lower status for women, or lesser opportunity for women, is a 
handicap for the growth of mankind as a whole and for men as a whole. It affects the 
lives of men themselves. If I am allowed another quotation and this 1s favourite of mine; 
many of you must have read Tagore’s great play Chitra. In 1t, Chitra speaks to her husband- 
she says : 

I am Chitra. No goddess to be worshipped nor yet the object of common pity to be 

brushed aside like a moth with indifference. If you design to keep me by your side in 


* Participating in the debate on the Motion regarding Report of Committee on Status of Women in India, R.S. Deb., 
13 May, 1975, cc. 259-63. 


651 


~ the path of danger and daring, if you allow me to share the great duties of your life 
then you will know my true self 


Men will not know their true selves until and unless they allow women to develop 
their full potential. 


In the West, the women’s liberation movement seems to be a movement towards unisex. 
As I said earlier, it has become a competition with men, thereby accepting the mores and 
values set by men. This is not my outlook. Women should have equality in wages and 
such matters. They must have better services and conditions of work and living, and so 
on. But speaking for myself, I can say that I do not want women to imitate men, but to 
have better opportunity for the development of their personality. That is why, I am glad 
that at the World Conference of the International Women’s Year, apart from plans for 
programmes and action, the main subjects for discussion are : (1) the involvement of women 
in strengthening international peace and eliminating racialism and racial discrimination ; 
(2) current trends and changes in the status and role of women and men and major obstacles 
to be overcome in the achievement of equal nghts, opportunities and responsibilities (1 
am glad that they have included men); (3) the mtegration of women in the development 
of process as equal partners with men. This 1s our hope that Women’s year will bring about 
a complete change in the outlook of society. I fully realise that this can not happen 
overnight, but it is something towards which we need to work and not merely legislation. 
We have legislation. A lot of it is not implemented. We must see how to implement it. In 
connection with the Women’s International year we have met a large number of women 
representing organisations-women lawyers’ organisations, medical associations and various 
others. They were able and practical, down to earth, and knowledgeable about the 
difficulties and problems of women, and looking at the question not in a grandiose way 
but devising step by step what can be done; What we wanted to identify were the 
programmes, small and big, which could be initiated straight away by voluntary 
organisations, by individuals, or by even ordinary housewives in their mohallas and 
neighbourhoods. Similarly we have to think how to remove whatever obstacles are in the 
way of implementing various legislations, what new legislation is required. Much good 
work has been done. I should like to add my voice to that of Smt. Mukherjee in 
congratulating Smt. Phulrenu Guha and all the men and women who worked along with 
her in the committee on status of women. The Education Ministry, had a great deal to do 
not only with the setting up of the committee but also with assisting in its work in helping 
to smooth over the various difficulties which are bound to arise whenever any human beings 
get together. This is a time for us to rethink about women, but I would say we have to 
rethink about humanity as a whole-and women because they form such a large chunk of 
that humanity that you cannot imagine the human race going forward or the human race 
progressing if half of it is to be handicapped at all or considered either lowly or as a play 
thing or as something for amusement. Even now when we are seriously talking about 
women’s rights and status, we find it causes great amusement amongst many of our friends 
of the other sex. The other day, when an hon. Member was speaking in the other House, 
she said something about Women’s Year. This brought the repartee. This year is going to 
last a long time ignoring the fact that for thousands of years, all years have been men’s 


652 


years and they will try to see that in future also they may be men’s years. We should like 
this International Women’s Year to mark a change. We do not want women’s years; we 
want years in which mankind works together as we did in our freedom struggle. Nobody 
thought then who was a man or a woman. We were volunteers in the struggle for India’s 
freedom. That is the kind of spirit that we want today. All, men or women, should consider 
themselves volunteers in the struggle, in an endeavour for a better world and for better 
conditions. To start with, in our own country. We certainly cannot change the world all at 
once but we should look at problems in the perspective of the whole country and of the 
world. 


I believe in the liberation of women in the same way as I believe in the liberation of 
men; that is, liberation from all kinds of obscurantism and superstition, from the narrow 
confines of outdated thoughts and habits. Men and women together can help to create a 
better society and a better world. In this, there should be no question of class, creed, sex 
or party. Thank you, Sir. 


653 


rc Bes 
inte 
ete 
x ee 
11072 
१२९ 
६2: 
28 
sexs 
SK 


4." . 

iS : 

: 

wy "22-25 
(गे 

८ ४५४८ ०००: 

A 


Atrocities on Harijans and Adivasis—A Stigma on Society” 


I share the feelings of anguish of all the hon. Members. We all realise that a debate is 
necessary for us to vent some of these feelings. But this does not necessarily lead to any 
solution. A soon as I heard of the tragedy in Pipra I asked the Home Minister to go and he 
was able to take certain initial steps which gave. some reassurance to the people. How 
effective they have been one can only tell in the long run? We are here as responsible 
Indian citizens who are proud of our country. Therefore it is all the more our responsibility 
to cleanse our society of those blots, shameful blots which can only, as hon. Members 
themselves said, cause shame to us and deprive us of our own self-respect. 


I have decided to reactivate the National Integration Council. It is not a solution; it is 
merely a tool. It is the responsibility of the Government to assure our Harijans and tribal 
brothers and sisters of full protection. Also the guilty must and should be punished. This 
is not a new problem. As many have pointed out, it goes back to thousands of years; it 1s 
not easy to pull out those old roots. The causes are largely economic but into them art 
woven traditional social atutudes. Whereas it is Government’s responsibility to protect its 
citizens, it is the responsibility of all of us here, not only as Members of Parliament but as 
thinking, responsible Indian citizens to work towards the ending of casteism and 
communalism which are kinds of poisons which urge people to barbaric acts, lead them 
to forget that they are human beings and that others also are human like them, and have a 
right to live, to earn and to love and to work. This is something that cannot be removed 
merely by government decision or government action. It has to be a people’s movement. 
Mahatma Gandhi tried to make it so. In our independence struggle, we did not fight merely 
for political independence; we did this but part of the struggle was against economic 
injustice, against social humiliation of all Indians, especially of Harijans, Adivasis and the 
very weakest who had no voice, and who had no organisation. Today’s situation is not the 
same, it has vastly changed; mainly it is this change which is part of the trouble, part of 
the cause of the trouble itself. As soon as they started reasserting their night; as soon as 
they wanted to stand straight with their heads up, a shower of atrocities and harassment 
descended on them. We are experiencing this also as a nation because this 1s the attitude 
of some of the developed nations towards us. They say how dare these poor people, who 
were cowed down, who listened to us, how dare they stand up and assert their rights? That 
is something that we have to deal with as a national problem. I know that. When politicians 
are talking, politics comes in, no matter how much one tries to avoid it. I certainly do not 


* Participating in the discussion raised under Rule 193 regarding Atrocities on Harijans and Adivasis, LS. Deb., 13 
March, 1980, cc. 398-401. 


12527: 772 
= f 


2०००4 कट 4 


me 
. 
Ms 
a 
22204 
' 
¢ 
om 
ee 


oR 
ioe ee ; ५ 
रा 22 


oo 
os 
ees 


eee Nae ab 6 2 8 NN 


want to lay the blame on anybody. What is past is past. But we cannot remove the past; 
we have to be aware of the past. But now let us try to see how we can put our heads together 
and how we can create a right atmosphere. This is not something we can do just sitting 
here or sitting ॥ the Integration Council. It has to be.done at the local level. If a group of 
people have to be protected, basically it is the neighbours who are going to protect them. 
It should be our task as Members of Parliament from these areas, from every area because 
all of us have Harijans and may be tribals in our constituencies, to see how to create that 
atmosphere, where people will not behave so barbarically, however much their feelings 
are aroused, even if they feel there is a cause for revenge. Once a wrong is committed, 
immediately the aggrieved feel that they must retaliate. The only solution is, apart from 
taking all possible administrative and other measures for protection as well as for 
punishment of the guilty, if we create an atmosphere that this is wrong, that it is not done 
in Indian society and will not be accepted by society. This is no short term solution. Much 
as I would like to say that I think such incidents are not going to happen again, I cannot 
honestly say that. We can only say that we shall try our very upmost, our very best to 
prevent such things from happening and I hope that in this effort we shall have the full 
co-operation of all sections of the people. 


655 


Blind Men’s Grievances* 


I am on a point of information, because my name is involved. I am deeply sorry that 
this incident took place. I do not think that the Home Minister wanted to “throw dust” in 
anybody’s eyes, I am using those words in quotes since they were used by an hon.. Member 
on the other side. Now an enquiry has been ordered and it will show whether it was a 
regular lathi charge or an inadvertent act, just to keep them together or hold them back, 
the enquiry will show that....(/nterruptions) 


As soon as we got the news, we instructed that there should be a full judicial enquiry 
of which the Members have been informed. Furthermore, the group of blind did come to 
see me today, not all 200 of them, but a fairly large number. I did not count them. They 
have given their memorandum and I have discussed the points in it with them. But as | 
had a meeting and as they said that they wanted to say something more, we have given 
them time in the office also. As hon. Members know, I meet absolutely everybody who 
wants to meet me. Now the problem is becoming almost out of control; this morning | 
think, I had 3,000, or so people. Even if you stop only a minute with each, it becomes 
quite impossible. Nevertheless we are not stopping anybody. We are trying to put them in 
categories, who has what kind of grievance, so that other people can also listen to them. 
We have now people from the office to look into grievances that are connected with the 
Government, I have others to look into other questions. At no time from my side has there 
been any kind of hesitation to meet anybody of any party or to enquire into any type of 
grievance. I should like to assure the hon. Members. I do not know why this incident has 
happened. I have given general instructions that I would not like to meet people on Sundays. 
May be, it is because of that they were stopped. Nevertheless, when they turn up, I do 
meet them which I would not like to publicise. But when they turn up, I do not like to tell 
them to go, so usually I do mect them also. We have told the Home Ministry and the Delhi 
Administration that in future they should be very careful about such matters. 


* Speaking on a matter raised by a Member under rule 377 relating to the lathi charge on a procession of blind men 
in New Delhi, L.S. Deb., 17 March, 1980, cc. 307-08. 


Atha 
? 


BoA SI TNE 
Seen Coens 
Cero te 
~ 6 


ayy 
s 205: 
Sr a 


1 ; 


BERN 


४ 

८ 

or 
Be 
pean 
2 
i 
ba 1271 


Reservation of Jobs to Help the Under-privileged* 


Before I start speaking, I want to draw the attention of the hon. Members opposite, to 
the words that have been used and the attitude that is being displayed before them. I am 
not making any comment. I just want you to note it. Why did we have this debate ? I am 
not interested in the specific words used in the Resolution or the motion or whatever it is. 
As you yourself have stated—even though I was not in the House, I was listening to the 
speeches till I came here and, of course, after I came here—with some minor exceptions 
and taunts, to which I do not want to refer now, I do not think this is important in the 
context—there was a genuine desire that we should come to some understanding, that we 
should, if not take some action, at least exhibit an attitude which would try to help to defuse 
the situation in Gujarat and in other places where such incidents are taking place. This 
was the purpose of the debate. Quite often when people want a discussion we are hesitant 
to allow it, it is not because we are worried about what they will say or the criticism they 
will mount but because of this doubt that the situation may become worse. This is a moment 
when tension is high on this particular issue on all sides. At first I had not thought of 
speaking, but after hearing my hon. friend opposite and also Shri Vajpayee, I thought I 
should say a couple of words. Anyway, I am not on that issue now. I am not speaking on 
the question of reservation. I think that our attitude has been made very clear in quite 
unambiguous terms in this House, in the Rajya Sabha and in all outside forums. 


ok मंद ok 2k ok ae मर 


I do stand by what I said on merit.** I think the whole point of what we are trying to 
do, the manner in which we are trying to help—I admit that we may not have succeeded 
and we may not have done it fully. But the point is that merit exists in all our people, but 
merit has not always been able to come up because opportunities were denied. This is the 
whole question. Why do we have reservations? It is not for the fun of having reservations. 
It is because certain opportunities and privileges were denied to groups of people that we 
wanted to help them to make up. That is what I meant. There is no question of removing 
reservations or suspending any other help. These were measures to help certain under- 
privileged communities. So long as their position does not improve these measures and 
others will have to be taken. Otherwise, we would not have continued reservations. We 
could have very well said, “We have tried for 15 years. That is over and we do not continue. 


* Participating in the debate on a Motion regarding the situation arising out of the agitation and violent demonstration 
against reservation of jobs for SCs and STs, L.S. Deb, 18 March, 1981, cc. 473-77. 


** Responding to Shri Ram Vilas Paswan’s remark, “Merit”. 


657 


- But we have continued them because we found that the need still exists. But, at this moment 
I do not want to discuss this question 


Let us recall how this present situation was sparked off. I agree with the hon. Members 
that there is a basic attitude. There is discrimination in thought and action and such attitudes 
of mind have to be fought by us. My attention was drawn to the case of a handicapped 
young man who secured a first class and got a gold medal but this particular post to which 
he aspired was a reserved one. But that was no reason to start an agitation. In no way do 1 
support the agitation or what they are doing. But when their is such a case, we should 
look into it and see whether some way out can be found. This 1s all that I meant. I do not 
think that there was any misunderstanding about my words, either amongst the Harijans 
or others. I am sorry that some people have sough to create that misunderstanding. However, 
that is beside the point. The point is : What are we trying to do in this debate ? Has Mr. 
George Fernandes’s speech helped in creating the atmosphere which all Members, even 
including Mr. Vajpayee have tried to create ?... 


a aE HC ae मंद अं 1K मेष मु 


.. The other question 1s: Just when we are thinking of rising together to pass a particular 
resolution, is this the atmosphere to create? This is the point which you, Sir, were trying 
to make. This is the poimt which all of us want to clarify. I have not seen this particular 
report which Shni Fernandes 1s reading. Mr. Chairman said that the hon. Member has quoted 
from it before. Hon. Member could have mentioned it at some other time but not at the 
particular moment when the entire objective 15 to create an atmosphere of calmness, of 
coolness, of co-operation, to solve a question which 18 not merely confined to Gujarat or 
Madhya Pradesh but which is a national question. Apart from the atrocities, the hardships 
which the Hanyans or the tribals in other areas have suffered, there is a bigger question. 


The hon. Member opposite referred to national integration. What is happening now is 
striking at the very root of national integration. 


मर मर मे a a ak 24 He मर 


Before I sit down I want to make one more point. So far as I have heard the speeches, 
I have not heard from any Member whether he is supporting the bandh on the 25th or 
whether he is willing to call for 18 withdrawal. This point needs to be clarified. 


mH मं ae मंद मंद afc a मु 


I entirely agree with the hon. Member*. But I object to his manner of putting it. 


* Replying to Shri George Fernandes’ remarks ‘ “I think the Prime Minister made the point that the issue is not 
Gujarat or what is happening there alone but it is so much a basic question..." 


STATE POLITICS AND UNION-STATE RELATIONS 


Talks with Naga Leaders* 


The statement is about the Naga talks. A delegation of Nagas including Shri Khugato, 
Shri Inkongmeron Ao and Shri Isack Swu, accompanied by the three members of the Peace 
‘Mission, met me on the 18th and 19th February, 1966. This meeting, as the House will 
recall, had been arranged in the time of my predecessor. It was intended to be a goodwill 
visit, and the talks which took place were fully in conformity with this idea. The main 
subject of our talk was the importance of preserving peace and stopping the many ugly 
incidents which still take place resulting in loss of life and property. The observer team of 
the Peace Mission is being strengthened by attaching two official on each side to ensure 
that all incidents of breach of the agreement on suspension of operations are speedily 
investigated. It has also been agreed that both parties will take effective and quick action 
on the findings of the observers. In order to create a better atmosphere and to facilitate a 
final settlement, the Peace Mission have suggested the release of the Naga prisoners. This 
matter will be examined. I was impressed by the sincerity and earnestness of the Naga 
leaders whom I met. They seemed genuinely anxious to ensure the implementation of the 
agreement entered into in September, 1964, and to prevent further violent incidents and 
loss of life. I am not without hope that as a result of this meeting a certain amount of 
unnecessary distrust and suspicion, which had developed on both sides, has been dispelled. 
We have agreed to have a further meeting for which the Naga leaders will visit Delhi again 
some time in April, 1966. It is possible—and I would not put it more strongly than that— 
that at this next meeting some real progress may be made towards a settlement which would 
put an end to bloodshed and see the restoration of peace throughout Nagaland. The way 
will then be clear for all sections of the Nagas to play their nghtful part in the progress 
and welfare of Nagland. 


40K मे 2 ek ae के 


Madam, as I mentioned in the statement, the nature of these talks was purely a kind of 
goodwill visit.** We did not discuss any concrete subject-matter, and the status of Nagaland 
not discussed. However, I think that the delegation are fully aware of the stand of the 
Government of India. We have not changed our stand on this issue at all, the stand being 
that Nagaland is very definitely a part of India. They have, one of the members of the 


* Making a Statement regarding her talks with Naga Leaders, R.S. Deb., 21 February, 1966, cc. 727-32. 
** Replying to Shri Bhupesh Gupta’s questions. He asked whether the question of the status of the Naga State was 
discussed in the talks. He further inquired as to what concrete steps the Government proposed to take to promote 


political discussions at other levels. 


661 


delegation has made a statement saying the opposite, but they have been making this 
statement for the past eighteen years, and it will take some time, and a lot more of goodwill 
perhaps before some change can be brought about. The only specific issue raised was the 
question of the recurring incidents, and they agreed with me that it is those people who 
are not interested in peace who are behind these incidents and therefore we should all make 
every effort to try and stop them. The purpose of enlarging the team of observers was this 
that they would be more able to look into this matter and also, as far as possible, to decide 
who was wrong, and if the number of these incidents can be decreased there by, that I 
think, will be a big step forward. ' 


ae aie ake a मं मं और aie मं 
I have received a telegram to that effect, but we have not yet been able to get the full 
report as regards the burning of the villages and so on.* But one of the main causes for 
the distrust has been the difficulty of establishing exactly, who was responsible for what 


had happened, and that was the reason why we stressed the need for the observers playing 
a more active role. 


a मै मं 40K मं ek मं: 


The Central Government is fully aware, Madam, that this has been the opinion of these 
people for many years.** Now we are making a very real effort to try and change this, 
and this can only be done with great patience and tact. 


MK मर ae oe He aK और a 


This matter was not discussed, Madam, but I beheve that there 1s some truth in this.*** 


* Replying to Sbri D.L. Sen Gupta’s query. He wanted to know whether there was any basis for the statement of 
these Naga rebel leaders that their villages had been ransacked and that people there had been burnt alive. 

** Responding to the clarification sought by Shri M.M. Dharia. He mentioned about an interview which was given by 
Mr. Isak Swu, posing himself to be the Foreign Minister of Nagaland, who said that they wanted their independence 
to be recognized by India. Mr. Isak Swu declared Mr. Phizo as the “President of the Federal Government of 
Nagaland”. Shri Dharia expected the Central Government to take note of this interview. 


*** Replying to Shri Atal Bibari Vajpayee’s query. He wanted to know whether the underground Naga leaders accepted 
that some underground Nagas were not behind them and some were beyond their control and they violated ceasefire. 


Disturbances in West Bengal* 


First of all, I want to make it very clear that both the Central Government and the 
State Government are distressed at the firings which have taken place and the people who 
have died. The parents of the boys and the people who have lost their lives have our. full 
sympathy. No Government likes to resort to firing. On the other hand, as the Home Minister 
has pointed out, when a certain situation arises, that situation has to be dealt with. It is 
true that we have in our country an extremely difficult food situation. This matter has been 
debated in this House and in the other House. I have myself appealed to hon. Members to 
try and help in this situation. Hon. Members on the one side would like us to provide as 
much rice as is wanted and on the other hand they do not wish us to import rice. Well, 
how and from where is that going to come ? We are prepared to and we are doing our best 
to import as much as can be imported. We are also trying our best to have better distribution 
of the rice that is available here. Bengal is procuring, Bengal has a programme of 
procurement, which is going quite well. It is true that not as much rice as is wanted by 
everybody is available but, nevertheless, the amount of the ration including the wheat is 
more than it is in many other parts of India. Now in these circumstances there is only one 
way open for us all, and that is to get together and try and find a way out, and see how we 
can share each other’s difficulties. And the way is not to try and create confusion, is not 
to incite people so that violence ensues. I have been to Calcutta, Madam. I could not go to 
Nadia district, but I have been to Calcutta. I have met a large number of people there and 
I have found that, by and large, there is no grievance about rationing. It is true that there 
was a difficult situation in Nadia district, but it could have been met; if people had clearly 
tried to explain what the difficulties were, it could have been met. But there has been an 
attempt—I do not wish to say anything against anybody or against any party—but the fact 
remains that there has been a very deliberate attempt to exploit every difficulty. And who 
suffers? I have stressed this point in this House earlier. Who suffers ? It is not the 
Government which suffers that way. It is not the Opposition parties who suffer. But it is 
the poor people of India who suffer and are suffering and, Madam, I would here like to 
say very Clearly that I do accuse those people who today are trying to cause this suffering 
to our people, who, instead of giving the lead and helping our people to face the difficulties 
with courage, are, on the contrary, increasing those difficulties. What has happened in 
Bengal today, apart from the sorrow caused to the families concerned, apart from the great 
damage to the public exchequer, to which funds come out of the pockets of the public, 
apart from all this it does create a feeling of disturbance all over the country. It does create 


* Speaking on the Statement made by the Minister of Home Affairs regarding Disturbances in West Bengal. 
R.S. Deb., 8 March, 1966, cc. 2508-10. 


a feeling of instability in the country, and if at a time of food shortage like this, if at a 
ume of economic difficulties such as this, if hon. Members ‘feel that this is the way of 
dealing with the situation, or bringing about a better situation, or creating increased food 
production, I am very sorry to say that I cannot possibly agree with them there. 


ae ak ae a a ak ah ae ak 


*Mr. Vice-Chairman, I am going to take only a couple of minutes of the time of the 
House, and there is nothing much to be added to what the Home Minister has already said. 
But since name has been brought 1n and certain words were used, I want to clarify the 
situation. 


I am supposed to have used the word “helpless”. I want to make it quite clear that I 
did use this word but not ॥ the sense which has been attributed to me. I said that in view 
of the stand taken by the Opposition, in view of their deliberate plans for violence, I was 
helpless to intervene in the matter. It 1s true that when Shri Samar Guha asked to see me— 
it has been my normal practice from before, which I intend to continue, that, I meet 
everybody who comes to see me—when Shri Samar Guha asked for an appointment, I told 
my Secretary I would see him. We did not know at that time that there was already a warrant 
against him, which was in the hands of the subordinate officers who in turn did not know 
about my appointment. Therefore, he was arrested in the morning. I was not in contact 
with him directly and nobody told me about this. No other Opposition leader asked to see 
me except Shri Hiren Mukerjee whom I did see. 


I take grave objection to some of the allegations which have been made here from the 
opposite side of the House against the Government. Many sad things have happened in 
Bengal. I said here earlier and I would like to repeat that we have the greatest sorrow for 
the families who have lost people, whose members have been killed in the firing. No 
Government likes to resort to firing and certainly we do not. But when I went to Calcutta 
and when I heard the sort of plans which were afoot and which were later proved to be 
correct, what was expected did happen. I was asked whether the Army should be called 
in. Whether it is constitutional or not I do not know, but I was asked and I did agree that 
if trains were attacked, the Army should be called to protect the trains. Trains were attacked. 
Now as the Home Minister has pointed out, and other Members have pointed out, the 
Government’s primary responsibility is not only to provide the necessaries of life as far as 
possible and as far as they can to the people but to see that law and order is observed. If 
you do not have law and order, none of the other things can be done. You cannot provide 
better food or other necessaries. If you have chaotic conditions in Calcutta City or anywhere 
else in West Bengal, then you cannot simultaneously say, “have a national food policy” or 
“give more food”. It is just not possible. Therefore, the first thing is to have normalcy. I 
have appealed to Members opposite, I have met the Members who come from West Bengal 
of the Opposition, and I am prepared to meet anybody else who wishes to come and see 


* Speaking on the statement made by the Minister of Home Affairs regarding Disturbances in connection with Bengal 
Bandh, &.S. Deb., 11 March, 1966, cc. 2930-32. 


B as 2120 0: Relay g Shree eae oe 07000 ores " 
g जा x aE > "a Rents tnd गज टन 5 Tatelety 
ae 5 Re Re nn cen UR mae eee ha Seen a) Setanta ana ty oh hha CEM op ct एड Ratt टोन Tae 
i SEN Ca teeta woncareer re ee ties rae ere ee s RRNE LHC STAD 00207: 20%7 ASRS OIE Cotta et //%5220220:2707202,22707:/2: Sivite 
Rte as Seen Sea Na 7 5 प्र oat ay ene prea pad pay PP Pans SRC, => Casale kee aah ee 
OOO PR ee a पर वन १:02 22०%/ 72024: २0:00: EE PG PSP DHT PERI RET AE “22778: 70 74202 22/40/2072 


SERS 


1 22222: 2: 27252 25:22: 7:77: 2:77: 


० Lata 
Pam हि 
Ken 
‘e Peele 
(०६.०० ees 
“ santana कप 


as 


Scant arn 


me to discuss this problem; but first some kind of way has to be found in which conditions 
can return to normal. While there are people who are advocating violence, it is no use 
debating who is responsible. There was a very definite call made for the “Bengal Bandh”. 
It was not a secret call. It was a public call, an open call. Although, as the Home Minister 
has mentioned, in a statement you can say that you want this to be peaceful, we all know 
how peace is broken, how things get into violent hands. Now we must all endeavour to 
get the situation back to normal. In spite of all the things which have been said about the 
Chief Minister here, I would like to assure the House that he is not maintaining a rigid 
attitude and he is genuinely trying to find a way out and to meet whoever it is possible to 
meet. I hope that with co-operation from all sections of the House, we can face the situation. 
The situation is a bad one. I have already told the House that the food situation is an 
extremely critical one. It is no use saying, give more food when the food 1s not there. We 
have to try and sit together and find some way in which there can be better distribution; 
where there is greater hardship, it can be alleviated. But it cannot be done by having this 
kind of strike or by destroying Government property or by inciting people to this kind of 
demonstrations. All the energies which could have gone towards solving certain local 
problems are diverted to these other things. And with the best of desire or willingness, 
they have to be diverted to this until, as I have said, the situation comes back to normalcy. 


Shn Arjun Arora mentioned about a national food policy. I have myself talked about 
this and I am very keen to have it. But I am sure he knows, as other hon. Members know, 
that amongst the hon. Members of the Opposition, there is not one view-point on this. 
There are perhans as many view-points as there are Members. And therefore, although we 
want to get together on this and we want to have suggestions from them, it is not easy to 
find one policy which will be acceptable to all. 


Explosions in the North-East* 


Sir, I wish to express the deepest sympathy for the families of the innocent people 
who have lost their lives in these explosions. I can well understand the concern, the anxiety 
and the indignation which has been expressed by hon. Members. I can also understand 
the slightly different feelings expressed by the hon. Member, Shri Swell. I want to assure 
him straightway that we do have the deepest concer also for the people of the Hill areas. 
It was because of this concern that we want to establish peace in these areas. Much has to 
be done in these areas and it is only through peace that we can go ahead with works of 
development and so on. I shall always be ready to discuss this and other matters with him 
or anybody else who has suggestions to make. 


The point which I really wanted to make has already been made by Shni Swell which 
is that the matter 1s still under investigation. I have been in telephonic conversation with 
both the Governments of Assam and of Nagaland. We are sending a very senior official 
from the Home Ministry to help in these investigations and to try to come to a conclusion 
quickly. 


I have also been trying to contact some of the so-called underground Nagas through 
the Government of Nagaland to express our great distress over these acts of violence so 
that our views might be conveyed to them, but I was told that it would take at least two or 
three days even to contact them. 


Some mention was made here of the Rev. Michael Scott. We have already expressed 
our views on this. I have nothing new to say except that at this moment he is lying ill in a 
hospital in Shillong...(/nterruption). I do not know what illness he has. This is the 
information given to me. 


What I really wanted to assure the House was that Government would take the sternest 
measures against those who were found responsible for these acts of violence and incidents 
as soon as something 1s reliably established. Also, if it is proved that those with whom we 
arc having talks are concerned or are responsible, obviously the whole approach will have 
to be reviewed. But I would beg of the House not to jump to conclusions in a hurry. 


I should once more like to assure the House that the Government views these outrages 
with the greatest concern and will take every step to ensure the security and life of our 
people and the integrity of the country. 


* Participating in the debate on the Motion regarding situation arising out of the explosions at Lumding and Diphu 
railway stations, L.S. Deb., 25 April, 1966, cc. 12937-40. 


cd 
; 
Fas 


dha stn 
22722 
nes 


Tackling Hostile Nagas* 


On 7th March, 1968, our security forces in Kohima District of Nagaland State received 
information that a gang of approximately 200 armed Underground Nagas was camping at 
Thetsema village, 40 miles South-East of Kohima. The same gang was earlier reported to 
have camped in Chobama village, about the same distant from Kohima. As our security 
forces approached Thetsema village on 9th March, 1968, the Underground Nagas opened 
fire on them. Our security forces returned the fire and in the exchange, one Underground 
Naga is believed to have been killed. One Jawan of the security forces sustained injuries. 
The hostiles vacated the camp which they had established in the village school and 
immediately withdrew. The situation is being kept under careful watch. 


a fe a she ae ak afc मंद a 


1118 incident which has occurred recently is really serious and hon. Members would 
appreciate that immediate steps were taken and we achieved success. Since the cease-fire 
has taken place, some such incidents are happening here and there. An hon. Member** 
has rightly pointed out that this is the first incident which is of a serious nature. But other 
incidents have taken place in Manipur but not in Nagaland and there too we are trying to 
combat them successfully with the full might at our command. 


As regards policy, the point is how this situation which has arisen there should be faced? 
I have at several occasions pointed out that there are some Nagas, such as the present 
Government of Nagaland and its supporters, who are of the view that all those activities, 
the unlawful activities which are going on, should be curbed. Our policy is to strengthen 
their hands in this task, and endeavour to see that more and more Nagas come to our side. 
We feel that since the day these talks have taken place, in spite of the fact that there is a 
group of underground Nagas which indulges in unlawful activities and we are fighting it 
out, a sense has prevailed among the general public that there should be peace and that 
sense 1S gaining momentum. We should not act in a way which would shatter that feeling. 
But at the same time I would like to add that if wrong steps are taken by some people 
which violate the cease-fire, we must be prepared to counter those steps. 


ek 2k 2 ak a मंद ae 


* Replying to a Calling Attention about the reported firing by the underground Nagas on the Security Forces, LS. 
Deb., 20 March, 1968, cc. 1814-20. 


+ Translated from Hindi. 
** Shri Raghubir Singh Shastry. 


जप 


_ tThere is no point in negotiating with them at this moment-neither from our side nor 
from their side. As far as the hon’ble Member Hem Barua has pointed out that is right, I 
used a wrong word, actually I wanted to say “suspension of operation” [instead of cease 
fire. ] 


We ah a ae a कं at ata 


This matter has been discussed earlier in this House and this is a fact that some groups 
have crossed over to the other side of the border.* Many of them have been stopped. But 
some have escaped. We are trying our best to seal the border to the extent possible. But 
this cannot be done with one stroke, it can be done only slowly and gradually. We are 
doing it with alacrity as far as possible, but it is still far below our expectations. 


As far as the question of Manipur is concerned, I have already said that we are 
determined to tackle the situation successfully and it is under control to a large extent. 


मं मे a Me और a a ae ofc 


We cannot be hasty in such matters. We are negotiating with the Government of 
Nagaland and whatever is appropriate would be done. The threat from China, which has 
been pointed out.by an hon. Member** is a real one and it is looming large in other areas 
too. We are combating this danger with full might at our command. 


t Translated from Hindi 
* Replying to Shri Madhu Limaye’s remarks about the border crossing by hostile Nagas and going to China for 
weapons. 
** Shri O.P. Tyagi. 


Situation in Assam, Nagaland and Manipur* 


The visit of senior officers is part of the normal administrative process of maintaining 
contacts and making an on the spot study of developments. Accordingly, a team of senior 
officers consisting of the Secretaries of the Ministries of Home and External Affairs and a 
Joint Secretary in the Ministry of Defence visited Shillong, Kohima and Imphal from the 
24th to the 26th March, 1968. During their visit, they held discussions with the Governor 
of Assam and Nagaland, the State Government of Nagaland, the Chief Commissioner and 
Chief Minister of Manipur. The officers have submitted a Report to the Government, setting 
out the results of their discussions. This Report is being studied. 


I should perhaps take this opportunity to state that measure are being taken in 
consultation with the Government of Nagaland, to further strengthen the machinery for 
the maintenance of law and order in the State. The visit of the officers provided an 
Opportunity to strongly reiterate to all concerned that the Agreement on Suspension of 
Operations must be respected in letter and spirit and its breaches prevented. The 
Government of India, on its part, wishes to implement this Agreement and it expects the 
Underground Nagas to do the same. I should also like to state that the reported movement 
of some Underground Nagas to China for military training and import of weapons is a 
serious violation of the Suspension of Operations Agreement. Naturally, we are taking all 
necessary steps to prevent such violations of the Agreement. The violation has also been 
brought to the notice of the Peace Observers’ Group. 


me मर और ae a अं me ai और 


As I mentioned in the statement, the report of this Secretaries’ team is being studied**. 
As far as I know, they have not made any recommendations with regard to Assam, but 
only about Nagaland and Manipur. 


With regard to the situation there being an extremely difficult one, that 1s entirely true. 
We have been in touch with it even before this team went. Every measure is being taken 
to see that these wrong influences which are working in that area are curbed. 


ae ae गुर aK a ae WK He He 


* Statement in response to a Calling Attention regarding the visit of a high level official team to Assam, Nagaland 
and Manipur, L.S. Deb., 1 April, 1968, cc. 1191-1200. 
** Replying to Shri Hem Barua who wanted to know about the different measures suggested by the Secretaries’ team 


regarding the situation in Assam, Nagaland and Manipur. 


« 


~ This is a suggestion for action. The team did not go to influence anybody.* It went, as 
I said, to study conditions in that area. 


Earlier on, Shri Hem Barua said something about the economic conditions in Assam. 
We are certainly aware of the situation and we agree that it is very important that steps 
should be taken to develop these border areas and to help the people there. 


ae oh of af a मं He a मर 


+...The fact is that whatever is being done there, it is in consultation with defence 
forces. **So far as the question of giving a free-hand to defence forces is concerned, no 
such situation has arisen in which they want a free-hand.... 


a ak मै भर ak मंद ak ae 


+... There is a group which wants separation, but most of the Nagas do not. Presently 
there is no question of holding talks with them; but, at the same time, we should not do 
such a thing as will make even those who are with us, our enemy. We should keep this in 
mind. When we had an Agreement with the Government of Nagaland, there was an 
agreement on this matter also that the matters pertaining to Nagaland would come under 
the Ministry of External Affairs. Since many hon. Members have raised the issue—that it 
should remain under the Ministry of Home Affairs, we are having talks with the 
Government of Nagaland on this. 


* Replying to Shri Kameshwar Singh who wanted to know whether a Parliamentary Delegation would also be sent 
to Nagaland. He also inter alia said that the visit of the team of officials could not make any impact as disruptive 
activities had been going on there. 

+ Translated from Hindi. 

** Replying to Shri Kanwar Lal Gupta, who infer-alia wanted to know, whether Government would give a free-hand 
to detence forces to deal with insurgency in Nagaland. 


ae मीमी मल 


670 


Development of Telengana* 


Mr. Speaker, Sir, during the last few weeks, I have conferred with my colleagues in 
Government and Party, the Leaders of the Opposition in Parliament, the Chief Minister of 
Andhra Pradesh, political leaders of some parties from Telengana and other parts of Andhra 
Pradesh as well as others, on the prevailing situation in Andhra Pradesh. 


These talks have been held in a spirit of free and frank exchange of views and with 
the object of evolving constructive steps to meet the genuine problems of the people 
inhabiting Telengana. We had to keep in mind the importance of finding urgent and positive 
solutions which would further the objective of providing immediate as well as long-term 
answers to the needs of the people in the Telengana region and, at the same time, of 
maintaining and strengthening the unity and integrity of Andhra Pradesh. The overall aim 
18 to ensure that the pace of development and the expansion of employment opportunities 
in Telengana is accelerated, and conditions are created for the balanced development of 
all parts of Andhra Pradesh through cooperative and shared efforts on the people living 
there. 


With this objective a number of specific measures have been decided upon, as 
follows:— 


A high-powered Committee will be appointed by the Central Government with a retired 
or serving Supreme Court Judge as Chairman and an eminent Economist with knowledge 
of State finances together with a senior representative of the Comptroller and Auditor 
General as Members. 


0) 
४ 
१ 
९५ 
3 
० 
a 
y 
(22:30 
Sa 
ret 
2 
20 
५2 


The Committee will go into the varying estimates and representations and determining 
the surplus relatable to Telengana which was expected to have been spent on the 6 
development of the Telengana region. The Committee shall report to the Union Government i 
by the end of the next month. 2 


222 
८ aie 
400 
sae 
(हे 
<a 
(५ eet 
9223 3 
03: 
Se 4 
Re 
Pare *, 
५ Le 
2९१ 
tate 
०१०९ 
rates 
sete 
(0) et 
Rite 
५; ६५९९५ 
Sy 
(1 
९, ९५०५ 
20% 
eee 
0 
fa 
vA 
42९० 
९ im) 
tate 
३2४ हम 
72 
a 
ne 
> #64) 
42 
x 
tet 
ae 
21 
o “a 
५९ i) 
oe 
cee 
: 
४०१ 
wea 
‘ah 
(५4० 
sia 
१५९ 
ne 
et 
of 
3 
ete 
422 
the 
este 
4% 
% 


Of 0 
ay 
“ 
me 


ceo 


Discussions will take place immediately between representatives of the Union Finance 
and Home Ministries, the Planning Commission and the State Government regarding the 
manner in which the requisite financial resources could be found to take good the surpluses 
relatable to Telengana. 


At the suggestion of the Chief Minister, it has been agreed that a high-powered 
Telengana Development Committee shall be constituted immediately, composed of the 


* Making a Statement regarding Telengana, L.S. Deb., 11 April 1969, cc. 328-32. 


Coy a 
BE nee cyte 27777 
42 2277000002 2 


(०८०, ४292: 0०२७:००-२८०४०२८..०- 
हे का Satins 


ee ea 


671 


Chief Minister, Andhra, as its Chairman, and a Member of the Planning Commission, the 
Ministers of the Andhra Cabinet belonging to the Telengana region and the Chairman of 
the Regional Committee for Telengana as 15 Members. 


The main functions of the Committee will be to identify within the overall framework 
of the Five Year Plans, the programmes and schemes relatable to the Telengana region 
with reference to the physical as well as financial targets to be achieved: to review from 
time to time the actual implementation and working of these programmes and schemes; 
and to advise the State Government on appropriate decisions that may be considered 
necessary. 


There will also be a Plan Implementation Committee at official level, presided over 
by an Adviser of the Planning Commission, and composed of representatives of the Union 
Finance and Home Ministries and the State Government, with the object of detailed periodic 
review of the actual implementation of Plan programmes and schemes relating to the 
accelerated development of the Telengana region. 


This Committee will meet every quarter and make its report to the Chief Minister and 
to the Prime Minister. 


In order to ensure adequate coordination as well as effective and speedy implementation 
of decisions the Chief Minister will consider what further delegation of powers, if any, 
need be made in favour of the authorities specially entrusted with the task of the dealing 
with the problems of the Telengana region. 


The possibility of providing for appropriate constitutional safeguards in the matter of 
public employment in favour of people belonging to the Telengana region will be examined 
by the Government of India in consulation with a Committee of Jurists. 


At the suggestion of the Chief Minister, it has also been agreed that the high- powered 
Central Advisory Committee which was set up under the State Reorganisation Act of 1956 
(which is headed by the Chairman of the U.P.S.C. and composed of a retired High Court 
Judge and a retired Law Secretary of the Union Government) will undertake a very early 
visit to Hyderabad, in order to examine expeditiously the grievances of the public servants 
of various categories and make appropriate recommendations to the Union Home Ministry. 


The Union Home Ministry will also devise an urgent programme within a definite time 
schedule, with the object of deciding any outstanding cases relating to the integration of 
the Services. 


The Chief Minister has assured that the State Government shall implement promptly 
any decisions that the Government of India may give in the light of the advice tendered 
by the Central Advisory Committee or the State Advisory Committee. 


In order to ensure the continuous attention of the Central Government towards the 
problems of the Telengana region, at the suggestion of the Chief Minister it has been agreed 
that the Prime Minister will hold review meetings, every six months, with the Chief Minister 
and his other colleagues in the high-powered Telengana Development Committee referred 


672 


7 
rary oe 


to earlier. The Deputy Prime Minister, the Union Home Minister, such other Union 
Ministers whose presence may be found necessary, and the Deputy Chairman of the 
Planning Commission will also be associaied with these meetings. 


The accelerated development of the Telengana region, and the balanced economic 
development of the State as a whole, and objectives which can be secured in an atmosphere 
not only of peace and tranquility but also of amity, understanding and cooperation between 
people inhabiting different parts of the State. In the course of his talks with me, the Chief 
Minister indicated his desire to make, in consultation with me, appropriate political 
arrangements which would promote these objectives. 


There was recognition in the course of various discussions, of the importance of 
restoring an atmosphere of complete peace and harmony in Andhra Pradesh. May I take 
this opportunity of appealing the people of Telengana to end the present agitation, and of 
inviting them to extend their wholehearted cooperation in the fulfilment of various positive 
measures evolved as a result of these discussions, and any other measures that may be 
devised hereafter. Towards this end, I propose to continue further, the process of discussions 
with the widest possible section of public opinion in Andhra Pradesh. 


I should like to assure the people of Telengana as well as those of other parts of Andhra 
Pradesh, that their genuine problems will receive the continuous and sympathetic attention 
of the Central Government. 


ee ees 
जा: 
80०५5, ०: - 


Statehood for Manipur and Tripura* 


Mr. Speaker, Sir, Government are aware of the interest taken by the Members of this 
House in the question of the constitutional status of Manipur and also Tripura. We appreciate 
the aspirations of the people of Manipur and Tripura...to have the status of their territories 
raised to Statehood, and fully realise the strength of feeling behind these aspirations. 
Government have also taken note of the special circumstances of these territories, Manipur 
and Tripura in which the demands for statehood have been made. 


We accept the demands in principle, but details have to be worked out keeping in view 
the importance of a co-ordinated approach to the problems of development and security 
of the North-eastern region, and we hope to be able to announce our decision within a 
short period. Government earnestly hope that in the meantime an atmosphere of peace and 
harmony will be maintained by all sections of the people in the two territories. 
(Interruptions) 


* Statement regarding Statehood for Manipur and Tripura, L.S. Deb., 3 September, 1970, cc. 21-22. 


674 


Statehood for Meghalaya* 


Mr. Deputy Chairman, Sir, my colleague, Shri K.C. Pant, was to have made the 
statement yesterday at 5.00 P.M. Just five minutes before that I received a message from 
the Chief Minister of Assam which needed consideration. By the time we completed 
consideration, the House adjourned and the statement could be made only in the other 
House about 6.00 P.M. I regret the inconvenience caused to the House. 


As the House is aware, some time ago we re-organised the State of Assam and 
constituted the Garo Hills, and the Khasi and Jaintia Hills districts into the autonomous 
State of Meghalaya within Assam. This arrangement took into account the need to provide 
adequate scope for the political aspirations of the people of this area, while preserving the 
overall unity of the State of Assam. The decision to grant Statehood to Manipur and Tripura, 
however, necessitated a fresh look at the status of Meghalaya. The Chief Minister of 
Meghalaya urged that in the changed situation, Meghalaya should be made a separate State. 
Later, Shri K.C. Fant visited the north-eastern region and discussed this matter with the 
Chief Minister and other Ministers of Meghalaya, as well as with the Ministers of Assam. 
Recently the Meghalaya Legislative Assembly has passed a resolution demanding full 
Statehood. On October 2nd, I was in Gauhati, and further discussions were held with both 
the Governments. Taking these factors into account, Government have decided to accept 
in principle Meghalaya’s demand for Statehood. We shall consider with sympathy the 
request of the Assam Government for assistance in building a new Capital. 


The need for a coordinated approach to the problems of the development and security 
of the north-eastern. region gains further importance in view of the contemplated 
constitutional changes in this region. We are studying these problems to see what further 
measures are necessary. I propose to have a discussion with the Governor, Lt. Governor 
and Chief Ministers concerned regarding this and other connected matters 1n the near future. 


Meghalaya came into existence with the goodwill of all sections of the House. I hope 
that the decision to raise it to Statehood will also be welcomed by the whole house.** 


ae 3k मं मं: मं: मं ae He मर 


* Statement regarding Statehood for Meghalaya, R.S. Deb., 11 November, 1970, cc. 112-13. 
** An identical Statement was made by the Prime Minister, Smt. Indira Gandhi in Lok Sabha also, (LS. Deb., 


10 November, 1970, cc 340-41.) 


Poteet BSN 
227:7:5:: eae ‘aes 5७१४१) ‘ 
Pl at 2 . 
paws 
रब ae 
oN 


675 


~ ™Mr. Deputy Chairman, several questions have been raised, and reference has been 
made to the message received from the Chief Minister of Assam. I said in my statement 
that discussions have taken place with him and his colleagues; it is true that this was when 
he was not Chief Minister, but he was practically acting-Chief Minister as Mr. Chaliha 
even then was very ill. 


An hon. Member** raised the question of Manipur and Tripura getting Statehood. That 
is the main reason for the discussion regarding Meghalaya. As I said, this question had 
been discussed with the Ministers of Assam and other people. 


Mek मु eK कं aK AK और 


Telengana is quite a different proposition.*** There are certain economic problems. 
As you know, we have taken certain steps to see that the difficulties which had arisen should 
be solved. We have to give some time to see how this works. 


There was also difficulty about the services and so on which we are also trying to 
solve. 


Regarding the consultation with the Assam Ministers, this was not once but on several 
occasions. Since our friend opposite is so anxious to make baseless allegations regardless 
of the subject under discussion, I might mention the date also. The discussion with me 
was on October 2, and with my colleague, Shri Pant, about a month earlier. Therefore, 
there was no question as to who would be taken in the Cabinet, which was to be formed 
several months later. 


As far as the Article in the Constitution is concerned, naturally, the last word is with 
Parliament. All these matters are always brought to Parliament and hon. Members have 
full opportunity to discuss all these problems. Although economic questions have to be 
considered, of equal importance are human questions. And in this strategic area equally 
important is the fact that all the people should have a sense of belonging and of working 
together. That is why when we brought forward the earlier Bill, and now also in my 
statement. I have laid special stress on the same integrated approach to this area with regard 
to development as wel! as security. This is why we are not taking any steps until this larger 
question 18 solved. 


There was no great hurry. But questions were being asked in Parliament. Since we 
had already taken a decision, we thought that before rumours spread we might as well 
make an announcement. We could have delayed it until today. But you know the cyclostyled 
statement had already come to both the Houses before it was made. That is why we thought 
that 1 would not be proper to delay it. 


Now, there are various other demands. I would not call these fissiparous tendencies. 
The problem is special to Assam. It is not only a question of economic backwardness; 


* Replying to the questions asked by Members. 
** Shri A.D. Mani. 
*** Replying to Shri Mahavir Tyagi, who asked “What about Telengana”’. 


676 


that applies to the entire region, to the region of Assam and the regions within Assam and 
the regions around Assam which are today Union territories and so on. The question of 
development is very important. We must see that no section has a feeling that its just 
demands are being ignored. Everything should be done to see that the economic problems 
as well as other problems are looked at and solved. And I am sure this will be possible if 
everybody cooperates with goodwill. 


There is no question of any part of India going outside India. Neither has it come to 
my notice that this has been raised in Assam. From time to time there has been raised a 
slogan which I consider unhealthy and dangerous. The slogan is against the non Assamese 
who are settled in Assam. But it has nothing to do with Assam going out of India. Even 
this slogan 1s due to misunderstanding because the area is backward economically. 


We have now taken certain steps. We are trying to help the area. We are trying to 
develop it economically, providing greater employment and so on. I am sure this situation 
will soon improve. 


It is really a question of gaining the confidence of the people. 


a ak मर ak a मर ete a 


Somebody mentioned the question of a new Capital. The question of a new Capital 
had been raised a very long time ago when there was no question of Meghalaya. In fact, I 
think during one of my first visits to Assam, which was in 1955 or earlier, even at that 
time, people had approached me and said that they would rather have their Capital in 
Gauhati as Shillong was completely out of the way for them. Anyhow this matter was also 
raised by the Chief Minister and other Ministers and we have said that the Centre would 
help. 


2 मंद ak मं मंद मर मं: मंद ak 


Some people in Assam felt that the Capital of Assam should not be in Shillong but 
should be in the plains because Shillong was out of the way for most of Assam. This 
demand has been consistently made by some sections. Now, with regard to Delhi, we have 
answered this question many times. The question is not economic or any other. The question 
is that the Capital of India happens to be here. Now perhaps some people think it is fortunate 
that Delhi happens to be the Capital. Our friend may think it is unfortunate. I do not know 
what it is. But the Capital has to belong to all the States of India; it cannot be a separate 
State. 


Minister to Deal with Problems of West Bengal* 


Mr. Speaker, Sir, as the House is aware, by a proclamation issued this morning, the 
President has taken over the administration of the State of West Bengal. The Central 
Government are anxious that all problems relating to West Bengal which are within their 
competence should be dealt with expeditiously. Very serious problems and an abnormal 
situation have been created in West Bengal and some other States by the massive influx 
of refugees in so short a period. These matters need to be given special attention and tackled 
urgently. It has, therefore, been decided to appoint a Minister of Cabinet rank as Minister 
without portfolio with immediate effect. For the present, Shri Siddhartha Shankar Ray, 
Minister of Education, Social Welfare and Culture will be entrusted with this responsibility 
in addition to his existing duties. As soon as the consideration of the Demands for Grants 
of his Ministry is completed, he will look after this exclusively. 


eo मं we ae a He He भर 


**Sir, I have pleasure in introducing to you and, through you, to the House my new 
colleague Professor Syed Nurul Hasan. 


I have sought your permission to make a very brief statement because in my statement 
made in this House on the 29th June, 1971 soon after the President took over the 
administration of the State of West Bengal, I had said that Shri Siddhartha Shankar Ray 
would look after the work relating to West Bengal and the problems created in that and 
some other States by the massive influx of refugees and would, in due course, shed his 
portfolios of Education, Social Welfare and the Department of Culture. It was felt at that 
time that the onerous demands of West Bengal and the problems of refugees would require 
the undivided attention of a Cabinet Minister. However, when the decision was reviewed 
in the light of actual experience, it was found that, in view of the marked general 
improvement in the situation in Bengal since this appointment, it would be possible for 
Shri Ray to look after this work in addition to his ministerial duties. The subsequent 
appointment of Professor Nurul Hasan as Minister of State in the Ministry of Education 


* Statement regarding appointment of a Minister without Portfolio to deal with problems of West Bengal, LS. Deb., 
29 June, 1971, cc. 282. 


** While introducing a Minister and making Statement regarding portfolio of Shri Siddhartha Shankar Ray, R.S. Deb., 
15 November, 1971, cc. 13-14. 


678 


and Social Welfare and in the Department of Culture, has given Shri Ray the assistance of 
a distinguished educationist. I have, therefore, decided that Shri Ray will continue to be 
in charge of his portfolios in addition to looking after the work relating to West Bengal 
and refugees. 


५१.७ ५. 


eats wala 
vin ‘aa जन 
Batter tnd 

बाण मनन oe 
Sete cre ne 


पद a मी अिक 
ee ha 
ea See 


Mulki Rules* 


‘Last week this House had occasion to discuss the situation in Andhra Pradesh arising 
out of the Supreme Court judgement regarding the Mulki Rules. In certain parts of that 
State there have been violent incidents resulting in loss of life and damage to public 
property. This has caused deep distress to us in the House and to people all over the country. 
I had appealed to all sections in the State and all political parties to help in the effort to 
restore public tranquillity and to bring about a climate of confidence and trust. | 


We had hoped that it would be possible for the leaders of the State to come to an 
agreement through discussions between themselves. However, this did not happen, and 
the Chief Minister of Andhra Pradesh and his colleagues wanted the Central Government 
to take decisions on all matters relating to the Mulki Rules. 


During the last few weeks, my colleagues and I have held discussions with the Andhra 
Pradesh leaders and representatives of different sections of the people. These discussions 
revealed an overwhelming desire of the people of Andhra Pradesh for a solution within 
the framework of the existing integrated State. After the most earnest consideration of the 
issues involved, we have taken certain decisions which I should like to place before the 
House in the course of this Statement. 


At the tme of the formation of the State of Andhra Pradesh in 1956, it was realized 
that the people of Telangana would need some safeguards in the matter of public 
employment and an agreed formula was evolved by the representatives of the Andhra and 
Telengana regions. As a matter of national policy, residential qualification for public 
employment was removed in other areas, yet Parliament, enacted the Public Employment 
(Requirement as to Residence) Act, 1957, in order to provide for posts in the subordinate 
services in the Telengana area being filled subject to the requirement of residence 1n that 
area. This law was envisaged as a temporary measure and was to expire in March, 1974; 
however it was struck down by the Supreme Court early in 1969. Since then the question 
of devising suitable measures to secure representation of the people of Telangana region 
in the public services of the State has been engaging the attention of the Central and State 
Governments. The recent judgement of the Supreme Court has brought about a new 
situation requiring the adoption of further measures to give effect to the objectives envisaged 
earlier. 


* Statement regarding the Mulki Rules, LS. Deb., 27 November, 1972, cc. 248-51. 


It is common knowledge that the Mulki Rules are applicable only to certain posts under 
the State Government and are not applicable to recruitment to the All India Services, to 
posts in the Central Government offices and the public sector undertakings of the Central 
Government. 


The measures decided upon are as follows:— 
(1) The residential qualification prescribed in the Mulki Rules will apply only for the 


(il) 


(111) 


(iv) 


(v) 


purpose of recruitment to non-gazetted posts and posts of Tehsildar, Civil Assistant 
Surgeon and Junior Engineer in the Telangana region. However, in the case of 
composite offices, such as the Secretariat, the offices of the Heads of Departments 
and common institutions of the State Government, these rules will apply for the 
purpose of filling the second vacancy in every unit of three direct recruitment 
vacancies in non-gazetted posts. 


These safeguards will remain operative in the Telangana region up to the end of 
December, 1980. However, in the cities of Hyderabad and Secunderabad, the 
safeguards will continue only up to the end of December, 1977. This distinction 
has been made because the State Capital is located in these cities. 


In order to provide adequate avenues of promotion to the Government servants 
working in each of the two regions, the various service cadres will be regionalized 
up to the first or second gazetted level. This will not, however, apply to the services 
which act as direct feeders to the All India Services. 


Educational facilities, including those in the technical and professional fields, which 
are available at present. Telangana students in the cities of Hyderabad and 
Secunderabad will not be adversely affected. In these cities the facilities will be 
suitably expanded and these additional facilities will not be subject to any 
restrictions on the basis of residence. 


For the cities of Hyderabad and Secunderabad, there will be a composite police 
force, the details of which will be worked out in consultation with the State 


Government. 


Necessary legislation to give effect to the decisions, mentioned above, will be brought 
before the House shortly. The Central Government will devise suitable machinery to ensure 
the proper functioning of these arrangements. 

The above-mentioned decisions have been taken, keeping in view the requirements of 
the integrated State, the legitimate interest of the people of both the regions in the matter 
of public employment and education, and the assurances given in this House. Government 
hope that these decisions will receive general acceptance in the State and will be 
implemented in a spirit of understanding, co-operation and accommodation. 


I appeal, in particular to all Members of Parliament, to help in maintaining peace in 
all parts of Andhra Pradesh.* 


अर a oc ae aft मं ae oh oe 


* An identical Statement was made by the Prime Minister, Smt. Indira Gandhi in Rajya Sabha also, (R.S. Deb., 27 
November, 1972, cc. 127-30.) 


681 


. *Mr. Speaker, Sir, there is really not much need for me to speak as my colleague, Shri 
Chavan, has brought a cooler and calmer atmosphere to prevail in the House and has dealt 
with the really important points. But some hon. Members even of the Opposition had earlier 
expressed the opinion that it might be misunderstood if I did not clearly state our views 
on some points which have been mentioned here before. They are not new, nevertheless, 
they thought I should do so and that is why I have got up. 


Parliament discusses many important issues which are highly emotional, and the Mulki 
Rules have become one such issue. Matters which involve regional feelings quite often 
do arouse the emotions of the people in this country as in many other countries, and we 
certainly cannot ignore the emotions of the people. But I should like to stress what Chavanji 
has said, that no solution can be found while the atmosphere remains charged with emotion. 
Any solutions, any answer has to be found in a very cool, calm and rational manner. 


Therefore, although I was also, as were many other hon. Members touched by the 
emotions expressed by hon. Members, by the difficulties of our friends from Telengana 
and friends from other parts of Andhra Pradesh, we were certainly touched by the 
difficulties and emotions—I should very respectfully say to them that all these matters have 
to be thought of not in terms of emotion but in terms of calm and collective thought. And 
not in terms of today or tomorrow or the day after but of what it will mean to them and 
the country ten years hence, 20 years hence, a hundred years hence. 


Hon. Members have been discussing here, and separately with me, the question of a 
few posts or a few matters like this. As Chavanji very rightly said, does this really touch 
the lives of the people? It does not. The whole problem of employment has assumed vast 
proportions for us. There is unemployment all over the country. Not only in our country 
but in almost every country of the world. This is one of the phenomena of contemporary 
society. I am not saying this to excuse our own shortcomings or difficulties. The problem 
has to be faced. This is why this question has assumed such vast proportions. 


Naturally, if you put to the people that a particular development has affected their 
employment, it has affected their rights, they will become emotional. Anybody will become 
emotional. I do not know how many people have gone to the public at large and said, 
“Let us sit down and think about it, what difference will it make in terms of employment, 
in terms of the other opportunities for the people in the Telengana region, for the people 
in the other districts of Andhra Pradesh?” So, I do not think that the issue has been fully 
and squarely put before all the people there. Therefore, the reaction today has also to be 
viewed in that light. 


Now, the present debate, with all due respect to hon. Members, is not about socialism. 
It is not about the welfare of the country at large or many of the points which were raised, 
especially by the hon. Member** who spoke first. This is a very limited issue; a very small 
issue. It deals specifically and only with the Mulki Rules, and the situation that arose 


* Replying to the debate on the Mulki Rules Bill, 1972, LS. Deb., 21 December, 1972, cc. 321-31. 
** Shri B.N. Reddy. 


because of the Supreme Court judgement. Some hon. Members said that nothing had 
happened. But I would respectfully say that a great deal has happened all these years. There 
was if not to our entire satisfaction, certainly a degree of calm; not the calm of the graveyard 
as some friends are so fond of repeating; and the situation was moving towards 
improvement. J am not saying that it had vastly improved. But certainly it was moving 
towards improvement. Then this judgement on the Mulki Rules was delivered and suddenly 
it was as if a fire had been started all over the State. How did the whole situation with 
regard to the Mulki Rules arise? The State of Hyderabad was the largest of the old princely 
States. One hon. Member has said and rightly that.in this State there were individuals, 
there were families of very high culture. But for the vast majority of the people there was 
poverty, they had not had opportunities of education or social welfare or of public health, 
or any kind of amelioration of their living conditions. When the composite Andhra State 
came into being all sections of the people recognised that for greater cohesions certain 
special measures of a transitory nature were necessary. The leaders of the people 
unanimously arrived at a gentlemen’s agreement which we all accepted. 


Since Shri Joshi is here I should like to just remind him. He cut a joke, he thought at 
our expense, on the word “gentleman”. But in those days gentleman was not a polite phrase 
at all; “gentleman” was used for a particular section of people who were completely 
divorced from the rest of the people. We have no objection not being counted in that section 
of the people. It is just like the earlier... argument over “lady” and “woman”. I had then 
very categorically said that we were women bearing burdens and responsibilities as well 
as wanting our rights, we did not want to be “ladies” and “gentlemen” sitting on some 
platform above everybody else. 


So, there was this agreement. Now, regardless of any agreement we all know that even 
within a family there are differences and disputes. There is no State in India which does 
not have backward areas. Relatively backward and advanced areas exist not only in all 
States. But in different regions of the same States. In the Andhra region, many Members 
have drawn attention to areas such as Rayalaseema and Srikakulam. The Telengana region, 
may be a backward region but it does have better off areas. 


Merely because an area is comparatively backward is not reason enough for taking 
drastic or irreversible decisions. Where will this process end? I am not at all afraid of this 
being catching; that is not the point. But where does any one draw the line? Will each 
district want to be separate? Some people have advised the division of U.P. Where to divide 
into two, three, four, into how many areas do you divide it? Do you go back to the old, 
very small States, princely States, do you go back to that ? Somewhere a line has to be 
drawn. You cannot just say that because of backwardness there should be division. As 
Chavanji has rightly pointed out, economic backwardness can go only through hard work 


and the effort of the entire nation. 


While there will always be sympathy and understanding for the special hardship of 
the backwardness of any special group or any special area. I do not think that anyone should 


be allowed to develop a vested interest in backwardness. 


BSR 


ee st Seats ety ele wet 


22005 बज 222 ; 
229 Seon 
DEES ee. 


see 
r 


a 
Pe, 
Pegs 7 मच: 


a 
'- 


०2020 


A 
eS 
2. Nt 
c 1८2०८ > : 
5 | NS etna - 
comes 10:7720000:0722022000022000:22020/7 00% 00:27: wes A 
rTPA ep STRIPS DAN PT SPOS AAS PON ae Ea PRA ESP ० ०2 SEE TRE a EN? 


522 
20 ‘ 
"०7०7० 
10022 
2 oe 
ay oe 


ee 


2223 


reseed 
wee wenn 


eee 

RRR 00020 
ERE RS 
SOR 


- This is really a general problem and it is a part of the very much larger problem of 
poverty itself. There is, I am afraid, no immediate solution to it. In the early stages of 
development, it is always more difficult to allot resources because the general level is so 
low that any extra provision is extremely difficulty, but inspite of this, an effort was made 
in the third and fourth Plans. As the House is aware, on the basis of the recommendations 
of the National Development Council, 225 districts were earmarked for concesssional 
finance from public financial instituuons. In this area included district from the Andhra 
region as well as from the Telengana region. 


In the Fifth Plan, it is our intention to launch a massive minimum needs programme. I 
do not want to go into the premise of this programme, some of which you know and some 
you will soon learn about. This is the only way in which a real solution can be found. 
While transitional measures may be necessary in some areas for historical or other reasons, 
I think we should all view the problem and the possibilities of its solution in the proper 
perspective. 


So far as the present Bill 1s concerned, Shri Mirdha has already explained the scope of 
its provisions and I do not want to go into it again. However, I should like to make just a 
few general observations. As the House is aware, the Supreme Court held that section 2 
of the Public Employment (Requirement as to Residences) Act, 1957 which sought to repeal 
the Mulki Rules, was bad. This was a complex situation. This was not the first time. In 
between many things have been going on. The Mulki Rules themselves were declared 
invalid and so on. It is not at all a static situation. But this has created a complex situation. 
It is obvious that the administration could not be run on the basis that Mulki Rules would 
apply to posts under the State Government at all levels. Certain appointments made in 
the past also had to be regularised. My friend opposite was much concerned about this. 
He felt that it might mean going back and reinstating people. I should like to re-assure 
him that this is not at all the case. I do not want to go into the details of this. But I think 
the fears are unfounded. We had also to consider the past assurances given to the people 
of Telengana area with regard to public employment and also their present needs. We have 
not at all gone back on any assurance given and I should like to re-assure the hon. Members 
that we are deeply concerned with their problems. But we feel that this is not the way of 
solving them. In fact, as I said on an earlier occasion, merely talking of separation is not 
an end of the problem. It is the beginning of another very big problem, not for other States 
but also for that area, that State itself. The decisions which we announced on the 27th 
November, 1972 were in the response to the request by the leaders of the State; they 
themselves have said that we should do something. 


Regarding this Bill, several Members have suggested that we might circulate it for 
public opinion, send it to the Supreme Court and so on. They asked, what was the hurry? 
The hurry is in the immediate interest of the proper administration of the State. It is obvious 
that any delay would create serious complications. I stand very firmly for an integrated 
State, but I should like to say that so far as this matter 1s concerned, even had there been 
two States, it would have made no difference to this Bill because it deals mainly with the 
problem of the twin cities and also the rest of Telengana. That problem would remain no 
matter what other things you do because a large number of non-Mulki is there. 


Unfortunately, even in the speeches...some little bitterness crept in. It does not matter how 
many States we have, you still will be neighbours and you still will have to deal with one 
another in a hundred and one things. Thinking that just because you are separated, you 
can get rid of these people or we have got rid of this problem is a very facile way of 
thinking. Our experience has not shown that this comes true. 


Rightly there is a strong feeling in the country that any residential qualification for 
public employment goes against the very concept of common citizenship which is enshrined 
in our Constitution. But at the same time, the framers of the Constitution did realise that 
the safeguards available to people who suffer from special hardships could not be abrogated 
straightway. This was one of the purpose of article 35. It kept alive the Mulki Rules, which 
had come to be looked upon as a valuable safeguards and had generated an emotional 
attachment. When the Telengana area was merged with Andhra, there were assurances from 
the Andhra region that this safeguard would be continued in certain respects. This approach 
was accepted by successive Governments in Andhra Pradesh all along even while there 
were different judicial pronouncements on the Mulki Rules. 


This is a fact which some people tend to forget. The present Bill retains the Mulki 
Rules in certain respects but provides for their phased repeal. I should like to make it clear 
that it 1s not the intention of the Government to come to the House again to extend the 
time limits mentioned in the Bill. As I have said earlier, in the life of a State, a period of 
five to eight years is an exceedingly small one. Recognising the fact that the capital belongs 
to both regions, the Central Government has decided to repeal the Mulki Rules in the twin 
cities three years earlier than in the remaining Telengana region. Even during the intervening 
period, employment opportunities in the capital are being extended and educational facilities 
expanded for the citizens of the other regions of Andhra Pradesh also. 


This again gives rise to certain doubts and fears in the mind of our friends from 
Telengana. I should like to assure them that the present Bill not only keep intact the 
safeguards voluntarily agreed to in the Public Employment Act, which was struck down 
subsequently, but seeks to go a little way beyond that. 


The Bill covers three of the five points mentioned in our decisions. The two other points 
do not require any legislation. I am mentioning this, because this matter was commented 
upon from the Benches opposite. Considerable work has already been done on the scheme 
of regionalisation of services, and the whole scheme will be finalised before long. The 
State Government will then make necessary amendments to their existing service rules 
and put the scheme into operation. The other decision related to the expansion of educational 
facilities in Hyderabad-Secunderabad. The Ministry of Education has already discussed 
this matter with the State Government and in the light of these discussions the State 
Government is framing specific proposals. Suitable machinery will be devised so that these 


measures are faithfully carried out. 


While we were seeking a solution to this particular situation, other points have been 
raised. It is said that the continuance of the Regional Committee for the Telengana area 
impedes the integration of the State of Andhra Pradesh. Shri Raghu Ramaiah and others 


have spoken about the separate budget for Telengana. A third point was that Telengana 15 
not the only backward area in the State 


As you know, the Regional Committee is a committee of the legislature itself, set up 
at the time of the formation of the State, to give confidence to the people of the Telengana 
region that the assurances given to them were being properly implemented. It provided 
for the closer association of the people of Telengana in the development of their area. 


The budget, of course, is not really separate, as Shri Raghu Ramaiah said. There are 
two separate sheets, but it still forms part of the same budget. But the basic problem is 
not of mathematical calculations. It is a question of the overall economic condition. I can 
appreciate the feeling of those who want all barriers which stand in the way of the fuller 
integration of the State to be removed. I look forward to a day when all these walls are 
demolished and there is no need to have such special arrangements. Such a situation will 
emerge progressively with the disappearance of economic disparities. May I remind this 
House that even the Constitution visualizes them as temporary and transitional? Meanwhile, 
of course we are giving special thought to what to do for the other backward areas of the 
State. The speedy development of those areas is equally important and suggestions have 
been made for some special arrangements which we are looking into. We would also be 
quite willing to have one or more regional committees or development boards for such 
areas, if the people so desire, and the details of this can be worked out in consultation 
with the leaders of the State. 


Perhaps, there is a feeling that the norms adopted in allocating receipts and expenditure 
under different heads could be improved so as to make them more equitable to both regions. 
This question can also be gone into and if any assistance from the Central Government 1s 
called for we shall try to provide it. Because what is really needed is the provision of 
adequate resources and this is always dependent upon how much Shn Chavan can find 
for the entire country. He also does not have a magic bag into which he can dip for 
resources. 


It is obvious that the resources of the entire State will have to be mobilised for this 
purpose. This is generally the approach which we have adopted for the removal of 
imbalances in the development. Whatever resources the Central Government can provide 
for this purpose will, I hope, be forthcoming. 


Mr. Frank Anthony is not here. I have just one rejoinder to make. He was speaking 
about minonities and our friends of the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes, and about 
their reservations. It is quite true that with all the reservations, everything that we had hoped 
to do has not been done. There are still many disabilities. But he addressed his remark to 
the wrong person, Shri Bhandare. Shri Bhandare is the one person who has always been 
elected from a general seat. He does not come from a reserved seat. So, his remark that 
“you will not be elected once the reservation is removed”, was to the wrong person. 


2 2 कं मै मं: मर ah He 2 


Sir, Parliament represents the will of the whole nation. Its duty is not merely to go 
into the rights and wrongs of a situation but also to view probiems from the national point 


ee al le a ar er a ०,०१०: बाय १) a a ee ee ०5 « 


of view. Shri Chavan has stressed this point. But I would like to repeat it. While all of us 
here are elected from particular constituencies, once we are here in this hall, I think we 
should consider ourselves not as merely the representatives of one little area but as the 
representatives of the whole country and the entire people of India. And each problem has 
to be viewed from that angle. 


The very first article of our Constitution declares that India is a Union of States. Each 
State has had a long cultural and historical tradition and each State has become a political 
entity in its own special way. Andhra Pradesh has been a distinctive cultural unit for 
thousands of years. The name has been found in the earliest Budhist writings. All the parts 
which now constitute Andhra Pradesh have been under one umbrella for long periods of 
history. Let us not look at just the immediate period of history. 


Perhaps, it was this long history which inspired the Telugu-speaking people when they 
yearned and struggled for several decades to form a unified Andhra Pradesh. May I cite a 
little bit of my personal experience? I happened to be touring parts of the South just before 
the Report of the States Reorganisation Commission was made public and my ears are 
still reverberating with the fullthroated cries of Vishal Andhra ... (/nterruptions). It was 
really the will of the Telugu-speaking people which prevailed over the proposal of some 
people to retain the old Hyderabad State. 


I have taken a lot of time. I should like to make one more point. Mr. Frank Anthony 1s 
absent. He spoke at length and he has on previous occasions spoken about the great mistake 
of forming linguistic States. There are some things which are part of our national life. It is 
true that the question of linguistic States was very much a part of the national movement. 
There was no getting away from it. The units of every party which was in existence at a 
time, were formed on the basis of language in spite of the British Provinces having different 
areas. There is an overall rationality in the formation of our various States and we should 
be very careful not to break this foundation of rationality in momentary passions. As | 
said at the beginning we should consider the feelings of people but it would be very wrong 
for the Government to be swept away by feelings. We must see what is in the larger interest 
of the people themselves. We are not saying that the interest of the people of Telengana 
should be sacrificed for our interest or for the interest of other parts of India. But the 
Government must think in a very calm manner about the interest of the people of that 
very region and see what will serve their interest best. 


The Telugu-speaking people have a reputation of forthrightness, but they also have an 
unsurpassed tradition of service to the nation. I am sure that no Telugu-speaking person 
whether he lives in the coastal region or in Rayalaseema or in Telengana will ever do 
anything even in anger or in desperation which is not in the larger interest of their entire 
State and also in the interest of the country as a whole. I can understand the emotions of 
our friends here. This has been a period of great agony for us all to watch the developments 
in Andhra Pradesh and the tragedies that are taking place. I also should like to express my 
deep sympathy with the parents and families of those who have lost their lives. But we 
must look at this matter in the larger perspective. This particular Bill of course does not 


SPREE ene ER RE 
1 as 


००५०१ 


ae ad wh (४४८ 
>) 222 72502 
2 


id Ouse 2: 
ane ४ 70002 
a . 
x eS 22 
' 


Ns Soon oS ८ 
Sa Nose, 1524५ Re 


‘a 
; 
Se 
(क we sek en fa by 
RRS 7: 0:07 ०३२ 12420: 


687 


touch the larger aspect at all. This is a very limited Bill but because hon. Members have 
talked about other things, I also had to give my views on them. 


Mea मं ae eae eae ak 


*Most of the points which have been raised have been replied to in one way or another 
in the last few days, and I do not think that there is any doubt in the minds of hon. Members. 
When emotions are roused—as they are these days—in the different districts of Andhra 
Pradesh, whether in the Telengana area or in the other areas, when apprehensions, suspicions 
and doubts, arise, all one can say at this moment is that one must try to regain a certain 
amount of calm to enable one to think coolly over these questions and try to seek a solution 
- which is in the larger interest of the country’s unity and strength. 


The Telengana question first arose because of the backwardness of that area. But we 
know that that is not the only backward region in India. There are many backward States. 
We know that within each State there are backward areas. We know that even within a 
single city there can be very poor areas, backward sections. So, as I have said earlier in 
this House, we should not so easily and so glibly talk of division and separation merely 
because there is inequality of development. Telengana is certainly a backward area. But 
so is Rayalaseema or Snkakulam. And within Telengana there are also better-off areas, 
the twin cities, for instance. So, this whole problem has to be viewed from a much larger 
perspective and we should not allow ourselves to be swept off our feet because passions 
happen to be roused. I am not belittling the passions or emotions. I also would like to 
convey my sincere sympathy to the families of those who have lost their lives. The life of 
every Indian is valuable, and it is always sad when such action takes place and people 
lose their lives and valuable national property is destroyed. But just because there is passion 
Government cannot be swept off its feet. It would not be a Government at all if it were to 
say let us give in because this is what the people want. There are many genuine grievances 
and the Government must always keep its eyes and ears open to the real needs of the people, 
but not when passions are aroused in this manner. That is not the time to take any drastic 
action or decision which will affect the lives of millions of people, not just for today but 
for the future. Whatever decision we take today is not merely for a few years, it must give 
a firm foundation for the future. 


It is rather strange that so much passions has been generated and there is talk of 
injustice. I think it was Mr. V.B. Raju or perhaps another hon. Member who said that the 
whole question of Mulki Rules concerns just a few posts, certain service conditions etc. 
And in order to secure those posts some people seem to be willing to give up the larger 
opportunities that they would have in the bigger State. It is obvious that the larger the 
area, when once it is developed, the greater the opportunity for further development, for 
further employment and so on. In a smaller area there are certain advantages in the 
beginning. You can go much faster but you will reach a point when the opportunity for 
employment, or for other progress is limited. Unless, of course, you regard the entire 
country as your own which is what we would like to happen. Then, the entire field is open. 


* Replying to the debate on the Mulki Rules Bill, 1972, R.S. Deb., 23 December, 1972, cc. 74-78. 


So we have to think of a solution, one which will satisfy not just a group of people in one 
area or the other immediately but one which we know to be in their larger and more long 
term interests. If we are to talk about relative backwardness, where do we draw the line? 
Telengana was the old Hyderabad State. There were many such princely States. Are we 
going to return to those old borders? And with what results? Would it not create confusion? 
And would it be even in the interest of development and progress and prosperity of the 
country? This is the major question which has to be decided. 


The problem is one of overall development with special emphasis on those areas which 
are more backward, on those sections of the people who have so far been denied adequate 
Opportunities and their due rights under the Constitution. 


Sir, perhaps the rightness of the Government’s stand is proved by the fact that the 
Opposition is taking two opposing stands. There are those who say that the whole concept 
of Mulki Rules is wrong and we should not support them at all and there are others who 
criticise us for to restrict them. So it is obvious that we have found a middle path which 
tries to give the greatest justice to both sides. 


I do not want to go into the history of the Mulki Rules. Hon. Members are aware of 
the historical background. Even though we all subscribe to the concept of our country being 
one and every citizen having equal rights anywhere in the country, we are conscious of 
the areas where we have to take special steps. This has been accepted by all. This is how 
the Mulki Rules have come about. But, the present situation arose because the Mulki Rules 
were upheld by the Supreme Court. It is not the Government which declared that the Mulki 
Rules should stay, it was the Supreme Court judgement which declared it so. This has 
immediately created an extremely difficult and complex situation in the State because the 
administration cannot run on the basis that the Mulki Rules are to be applied to posts in 
the State Government at all levels. Certain appointments, made in the past have also to be 
regularised. We also have to consider the past assurances given to the people of Telengana 
with regard to the public movement and also their present needs. So the Bill was absolutely 
necessary and urgent in the immediate interest of the proper administration of the State. 
Any delay would create very serious complications. As I have said, the present Bill not 
only keeps intact the safeguards voluntarily agreed to in the Employment Act which was 
struck down subsequently but seeks to go a little way beyond it. As we are short of time | 
do not want to go into further details. Most of the other points have been replied to, the 
legal points as well as the others, at one time or another. The only question is how we can 
bring about a better atmosphere in that whole area so that whatever difficulties exist can 
be sorted out calmly and rationally. Just now there is bitterness between the two regions. 
But no matter how much they dislike each other or suspect each other, they still have to 
live together. There are a large number of people from other areas of Andhra living in the 
twin cities and it is they who are being affected by the Mulki Rules. The geographical 
position of the States cannot be changed no matter what anybody feels. Therefore, sooner 
or later, we have to live in friendship with our neighbours. So each one of us would try to 
lessen the bitterness and to find a real way out. Earlier on it was the people of Andhra 
Pradesh who wanted the bigger State. As I mentioned in the other House. I can still hear 
the echoes of the slogans which were shouted when I happened to be touring South India 


689 


‘just before the States Reorganisation Commission's report was put out. People knew 
vaguely what the report said. I was not allowed to sleep all night because at every station 
there were tremendous crowds who did not want to say.or hear anything except one 
Visalandhra—such vast crowds that the sky seemed to be reverberating with sound. I cannot 
forget this. So we should make an earnest effort to see that Andhra Pradesh which was the 
dream of the people of the entire region and which was realised, remains intact. This will 
have a major effect on all the people who live there. It means the mobilisation of all the 
resources, it means utilising them for all the people, with a little more for those who have 
not had the opportunities which some others have had. I am sure if our friends from Andhra 
Pradesh whether they live in Telengana, or whether they live in the coastal districts or in 
Rayalaseema, if they will all set themselves to this task, it is not impossible to do, the aim 
is not impossible to achieve. I sincerely hope that this Bill which does not deal with any 
larger problem—it deals only with the situation as it developed because of the Supreme 
Court ruling—will be passed. 


Some hon. Members had a great deal to say about my party there. But we all know 
that.whenever such regional feelings come up, people get swayed by them. Not only my 
party, all parties are swayed. Some hon. Members have decided to boycott the debate. Why? 
Because, they do not want to be committed one way or other. They are waiting to see 
what would happen in the end. We cannot do this. When we believe an action to be right, 
we have to stand for it, we have to fight for it. This is our attitude. I sincerely hope that all 
Members of this honourable House will support this. 


ae TT 
NAMI AN I PTR Re NN ea openers 


22:05: 02%:0::%5%5::::2::: 


ना मा ना न eee 
ROE ORE NEE एक: ४२:०९ 


चन्दन 
2 


a SS *- “०५५४ ५१ इ ० ७ कब 9 aA 
SES SSO Hehe ICR eas 


Accord with Sheikh Abdullah* 


Mr. Deputy Chairman, Sir, in pursuance of Government’s policy to secure the active 
cooperation and involvement of all democratic, secular and progressive forces in the country 
it was considered desirable to have a dialogue with Sheikh Mohammed Abdullah. Hon. 
Members are aware that Sheikh Abdullah had played a notable part in the freedom struggle 
and in the accession of the State of Jammu and Kashmir to the Indian Union. He formed 
and headed the Government of the State for a number of years after Independence. Despite 
the differences which led to the subsequent estrangement it seemed clear from the public 
statements made by Sheikh Abdullah as well as personal talks with him that his commitment 
to basic national ideals and objectives had remained unchanged. He reaffirmed that the 
accession of the State to the Indian Union was final and irrevocable. His main area of 
concem was about the legal and constitutional changes made after August, 1953. 


It was decided that Mirza Afzal Beg whom Sheikh Abdullah named for the purpose 
and Shri G. Parthasarathi whom I entrusted with the task should examine these changes 
in depth and make appropriate recommendations. After extensive discussions they reached 
agreement on various points which are incorporated in the Agreed Conclusions, a copy of 
which is placed on the Table of the House. These conclusions formed the subject matter 
of further discussions at a political level in which Sheikh Abdullah, Syed Mir Qasim, the 
Chief Minister of the State, and Sardar Swaran Singh participated. As a result of these an 
understanding has been reached as disclosed in the letters exchanged between me and 
Sheikh Abdullah, copies of which are placed on the Table. I shall refer to certain basic 
features of the understanding. 


The Agreed Conclusions have been formulated within the framework of the Constitution 
of India. The constitutional relationship between the State of Jammu and Kashmir and the 
Union will continue as it has been and the extension of further provisions of the Constitution 
to the State will continue to be governed by the procedure prescribed in Article 370. There 
will be no weakening of the ties which exist between the Union of India and its constituent 
units of which the State of Jammu and Kashmir is one. The existing jurisdiction of the 
Centre to deal with activities directed towards questioning, or disrupting the sovereignty 
and territorial integrity of India, or bringing about cession or secession of any part of the 
territory of India from the Union, will also continue. It has also been agreed that any 
amendment of the Constitution of the State on certain specified matters of importance will 
not become effective unless the assent of the President is obtained. The Agreed Conclusions 


* Making a Statement on Jammu and Kashmir, R.S. Deb., 24 February, 1975, cc. 236-49. 


seek to reassure the State that in case the State Government comes up with any proposal 
to change any Central law made after 1953 on matters in the Concurrent List such as social 
welfare measures, cultura] matters, social security, procedural laws and the like, the grant 
of assent to the Bill will be sympathetically considered 


A proposal was made by Mirza Afzal Beg that the junsdiction of the Supreme Court 
in relation to the State should be curtailed. This was not accepted as it is considered 
important that the Supreme Court should continue to have its original and appellate 
jurisdiction in the matter of Writs, appeals and other matters. However, it was agreed by 
collateral letters (Copies of which are placed on the. Table) that the provision in Article 
132 (2) enabling the Supreme Court to grant special leave on the refusal of a certificate 
by the High Court need not apply to the State. Action on this, will, however, be taken 
only when the State Government comes up with a proposal in this behalf. 


Hon. Members will notice that the question of nomenclature of the Governor and the 
Chief Minister could not be settled. This is a matter which is provided for in the State 
Constitution which at present uses the expressions “Governor” and “Chief Minister”. A 
change in the nomenclature can be made only by amendment of the State Constitution by 
the State Legislature. So far as the Chief Minister is concerned, there should be no objection 
to the adoption of the designation “Wazir-e-Azam’ in the State if the Legislature of the 
State of Jammu and Kashmir amends its constitution accordingly. Until this is done, the 
present designation would continue. 


Sheikh Abdullah was very anxious that to start with, the constitutional relationship 
between the State and the Centre should be as it was in 1953 when he was in power. It 
was explained to him that the clock could not be put back in this manner. Mirza Afzal 
Beg pressed for the transfer of provisions relating to Fundamental Rights to the State 
Constitution, the removal of the supervision and control of the Election Commission of 
India over elections to the State Legislature, and the modification of Article 356 to require 
the State Government’s concurrence before imposing President’s Rule in the State. It was 
not found possible to agree to any of these proposals. I must say to the credit of Sheikh 
Abdullah that despite his strong views on these issues, he has accepted the Agreed 
Conclusions. 


The State Government is in agreement with the understanding reached and the approach 
in regard to political cooperation with Sheikh Saheb and his followers, as being in the 
interests of the State and the country. 


Hon. Members will have seen the statement made by Mirza Afzal Beg on February 
6th, 1975 to the effect that in the changed circumstances plebiscite has become irrelevant 
and that the name and objectives of the Plebiscite Front have to be changed accordingly. 
We have been informed that this statement was endorsed at the recent meeting of the 
Executive Committee of the Party and that Mirza Afzal Beg has been entrusted with the 
task of calling a meeting of the General Body of the Front for taking the necessary followup 
action in this regard. 


As is disclosed in the letters exchanged Sheikh Abdullah has stated in clear terms that 
the future of Jammu and Kashmir lies with India and that as one who cherishes the ideals 


692 


of democracy, secularism and socialism, he has come forward with his cooperation with a 
view to further strengthen the bond between the State and the Union. We have every 
confidence that he will make his own distinctive contribution to the task of strengthening 
the nation and sustaining its ideals. 


The settlement that has been reached is an entirely domestic matter. It has been the 
endeavour of Government to find satisfactory solutions for political problems in a spirit 
of conciliation. The manner in which differences with Sheikh Abdullah have been resolved 
Shows the vitality of the functioning of our democracy. It is my sincere hope that the 
agreement will open a new era of understanding and cooperation with those in the State 
of Jammu and Kashmir who had not associated themselves with the mainstream of national 
life during the last two decades. It will also amply demonstrate the identity of interests 
and ideals of the people of the State with those in the rest of India and mark a milestone 


in the onward march of our nation.* 


a ae मर मंद मर मं a i भर 


**Sir, as I said in my statement, there is no doubt about Jammu and Kashmir remaining 
an integral part of India. In this respect it is just like our other States. 


A question was raised about article 370. As the hon. Member Shri V.P. Dutt has pointed 
out, the situation in Kashmir has been different from that obtaining in any other State. It 
had a Constituent Assembly of its own in order to draw up a special Constitution for the 
State. This aspect has to be kept in view. The Constituent Assembly was not only to 
determine the Constitution for the State, but also the sphere of the Union’s jurisdiction 
over the State and it was left to the Assembly to decide whether article 370 should remain 
or be modified or abrogated and this is reflected in clause (3) of that article. That is why 
article 370 was called temporary as the Constituent Assembly of the State did not give its 
decision by 1950. Now, the Assembly completed its work in 1956. But it did not suggest 
the deletion or modification of article 370 which, therefore, became a permanent part of 
our Constitution since 1956. The present agreed conclusions do not seek to make any 
change in the existing position and the assumption of some of the Hon. Members opposite 
that the present agreement makes article 370 permanent 1s, therefore, not correct. We are 
only accepting the existing situation. This is supported by the Supreme Court decision of 
1970. 


An hon. Member has asked about laws which have been made after 1953. In my own 
statement, I have mentioned this matter and have said that in case the State Government 
comes up with any proposal to change any Central law made after 1951 on matters in the 
Concurrent List, it will be sympathetically considered. There is nothing in this that goes 
beyond what is in the national interest. 


* An identical Statement was made by the Prime Minister Smt. Indira Gandhi in Lok Sabha also (LS. Deb., 24 
February, 1975, cc. 308-12). 
** Replying to the questions asked by Members, R.S. Deb., 24 February, 1975, cc. 246-49. 


693 


Some hon. Members have asked for a debate. We ourselves would gladly welcome 
any discussion or debate. It is for the Chair to decide what form it should take. 


Cd 


४ An hon. Member opposite, I think from Tamil Nadu, seems to think that we are now 
considering Sheikh Abdullah as a freedom fighter. This is not so. He has fought alongwith 
us in the freedom struggle. Nobody has denied his previous role. In between he seemed to 
have changed his mind and, therefore, there was disagreement and the estrangement which 
I have mentioned in my statement. Now that he is again expressing his willingnes to work 
for unity, for secularism and for the progress of the country and to see that Jammu and 
Kahsmir remains in the mainstream of national life we welcome this change of attitude. 
Previously, he played a major part in taking certain initial decisions. His fight was a part 
of the national freedom struggle. He represented the National Conference which participated 
in the conferences and deliberations of the State’s people’s conferences which led the 
freedom movement in princely States. 


So far as the question of the State’s autonomy is concerned, I think Dr. V.P. Dutt has 
already clarified that there is a very special situation obtaining in J & K. They have their 
own Constitution and ॥ that Constitution they did have the term “Wazir-e-Azam”’. I might 
inform the House that whatever name they may choose for themselves within their State, 
it is their business. But, so far as the Centre is concerned, we would like to call all the 
Chief Ministers as Chief Ministers. Already, in some States, the Chief Minister has his 
own designation in the State language. In Tamil Nadu, as the hon. Member must be aware, 
a Tamil equivalent is used. But this is limited to the language used within the State. So far 
as the Centre is concerned to us all Chief Ministers will remain Chief Ministers. I entirely 
agree with some hon. Members on this—there would be utter confusion if each Chief 
Minister had a different designation. Sheikh Saheb will not be able to call himself Prime 
Minister in English even in his State. In English he has said that he will use ““Wazir-e- 
Azam” in Roman characters. 


me ae मै ae ae ae aR और ak 


Sir, | entirely disagree with Shn Niren Ghosh’s view that there was no democracy in J 
& K in the intervening period. So far as the wishes of the people are concerned, provided 
they are in line with national interests, we always try to accommodate them.... __ 


मंध्मं के 404K 4040 


Obviously this is recognized*. In our Constitution there is the Union List and the 
Concurrent List. I do not think there is any confusion about this. The present situation has 
been in existence from the beginning. This is not a new situation. 


Our Party has offered its support to Sheikh Abdullah. But I think there is a vacant seat, 
and it is possible that he may contest the election and get elected. 


a ok a ek मं ae मर ak 


* Replying to Shri K.N. Dhulap’s question, “There are two Constitutions—State Constitution and the Central 
Constitution. Which Constitution will prevail 7” 


*Mr. Speaker, I beg to move : 


“That this House do consider the statement made by the Prime Minister in the House 
on the 24th Febgary, 1975 in relation to the State of Jammu and Kashmir.” 


My task has been made easier because of the warm and widespread welcome which 
the understanding with Sheikh Abdullah and my statement of February 24 have received 
in the House and in the country at large. In the week that has gone by, the Statement has 
been analysed and commented upon by the Press and the public. And, with the exception 
of groups which have had a closed mind on Kashmir (or which do not like the Government 
to do anything right) the reaction has been one of relief and rejoicing. 


Why have the people welcome this accord? Because they feel that a controversy, which 
had been with them for two decades and which had caused much misunderstanding and 
defied solution, had now ended through an act of reconciliation. Any act of vision and 
statesmanship appeals to people, especially the people of India. 


So, something which was becoming chronic has been settled through discussion, 
through dialogue, through an exercise of political courage and personal accommodation 
on both sides. It is particularly praiseworthy that Sheikh Abdullah, overcoming whatever 
bitterness he might have had, should have clasped the hand of friendship extended to him. 
He has done this in the larger interest of Kashmir and of the country as a whole and of the 
cause which is dear to him, namely the strengthening of democracy and secularism. 


This new political understanding is worthy of a person of Sheikh Abdullah’s long record 
of service to the people and our cherished values. About forty years ago Sheikh Abdullah 
became the foremost leader of the Kashmir people’s fight against feudalism and he made 
his struggle a part of the larger national struggle for freedom and secularism. In the forties 
he stood out against the divisive policies of the Muslim League. In 1947 when the State 
was invaded by Pakistan, he rallied the people in the defence of the State and promoted 
the accession of Jammu and Kashmir to India. 


How right this accord is can be judged if we see what elements are opposed to it and 
why Pakistan is not happy, because the accord has strengthened India and deprived Pakistan 
of a pretext to mislead world opinion. Mr. Bhutto gave almost ill-advised call for hartal 
on Friday. But the people of Jammu and Kashmir ignored this call, and rebuffed this blatant 
interference in our internal affairs. This shows their good sense and patriotism. The small 
group of pro-Pakistan elements which has not taken kindly to the agreement, will, I hope, 
draw the appropriate lesson. Pakistan should realise that it cannot exploit persons in the 
State and continue to mislead world opinion. 


Another group which has been unhappy with the agreement is the Jan Sangh. When I 
made my statement on February 24 the Jan Sangh spokesman was quick to call it a 
“surrender”. I hope that in the intervening week the party would have tried to find out the 
value of the understanding and why the people have welcomed it. 


* Moving a Motion for the consideration by the House of the Statement made by the Prime Minister in relation to 
the State of Jammu and Kashmir, LS. Deb., 3 March, 1975 cc. 246-49. 


695 


Hon. Members might have read of the two explosions in Srinagar, one on the 24th 
and another on Saturday night. These are pitiful demonstrations of the frustration of anti- 
national elements, a confession of their failure. Fortunately, they did not cause much 
damage. Such acts will not affect the morale of the people of Kashmir andof India. On 
fhe contrary they will arouse indignation. I warn the wrong doers that they will be sternly 
dealt with. 


I do not propose to go into the details of the understanding. Some of my colleagues 
will deal with these in the course of the debate. As I said in the House the other day, it is 
not so much the legal niceties involved in the accord which matter as much as the substance 
of the achievement which Sheikh Abdullah has described as the re-establishment of trust 
and confidence. We believe we have established a solid foundation for mutual cooperation. 
I am sure the House will also view it as a great essay in harmony. 


ae ak a He ek मर Hea 


*Mr. Chairman, Sir, we had a fairly lengthy debate and the various points raised— 
legal, constitutional, political—have been dealt with by most speakers on both sides of 
the House, for a change. The hope that I had expressed earlier that the Jan Sangh would 
show an understanding of the background, the spirit and the benefits of the accord has 
been belied. This 15 evidence of their chauvinistic policies and authoritarian outlook. They 
Cannot understand that bitterness can be overcome by seeing things in the larger perspective 
and by moving forward in trust. 


The understanding that has been reached is within the framework of the Indian 
Constitution which, ensuring that the Union functions effectively, is sufficiently broad- 
based and flexible to accommodate special requirements and situations and to provide ample 
scope for the socio-economic development of constituent States. 


Some Members spoke of autonomy. This seems to have become a catch word. Our 
Constitution provides for a strong Centre, yet it gives considerable autonomy to the States. 
It is wholly wrong to think that constitutional arrangements stifle the States in any way. 


None of us can claim to be as great as Mahatma Gandhi but I can assure 
Hanumanthaiyaji who is not here just now, that we are not subjective when we talk of 
Centre-State relations. Without a strong Centre, how can the States hold together? If each 
State looks only to its own interests how will the weaker States be helped? All our States 
are inter-dependent and each needs something from the other. The Centre is the thread 
which binds them together. At present, most States, in fact, I would say all States, find it 
useful to have someone on whom they can lay the blame for whatever they are unable to 
do, for their shortcomings. 


I believe in diversity and decentralisation. Individuals, groups and States should be 
able to develop their personalities and their resources. Local initiative and talent should 


* Replying to the debate on the Motion regarding the Statement made by the Prime Minister in relation to the 
State of Jammu and Kashmir, L.S. Deb., 4 March, 1975, cc. 327-35. 


696 


be encouraged. But I believe equally in unity. Without a strong Centre there would be no 
united country. What freedom would the States then share. State autonomy should be 
inseparable from national strength. Any demands in the name of autonomy which are 
incompatible with national strength will not be acceptable to the people of our country. 


I can assure the hon. Member opposite, from the DMK, that we have never called him 
or anyone names. Nor shall we do so. But, if anybody works for or propagates a policy 
which weakens the nation, we must say so. 


Shri Hanumanthaiya was in great form yesterday, but he indulged in a flight of fancy 
when he compared Chief Ministers to ants. One of the books which made an impression 
on me when I was a child was Macterlincks’s Life of the Ant. Ants may be small, but they 
are industrious creatures and their communities are very disciplined and highly organised. 
I do not know to which of these qualities Shri Hanumanthaiya was referring. 


Many Members have spoken about article 370, either in criticism or in explanation or 
in support. As has been said, this is a specific provision made for Jammu and Kashmir in 
our Constitution taking into account the historical and political factors which prevail in 
the State. It lays down a procedure for the progressive extension to the State of the 
remaining provisions of the Constitution with the concurrence of its Government. This 
has been working satisfactorily all these years, and several important and necessary 
provisions have been applied to the State in this manner. There is no reason to assume 
that further extension of provisions to the State is ruled out. Given mutual trust and 
confidence, there is bound to be mutual appreciation of the needs of the State and the Centre 
(Interruptions). 


Shri Vajpayee made much of a particular sentence. I used the other day. It 1s 
characteristic of the Opposition to try to find a word on which to trip us—ignoring the 
spirit and the substance. 


2h ok मर fea 2k toto 
My observations on the present status of article 370, to which Shri S.N. Mishra took 


exception, are based upon the Supreme Court’s decision of 1970. 


ae 2c 3 3K मेष a ae a मर 


I had quoted it earlier*. I had said so the other day also. 


What I said was that because the State’s Constituent Assembly, which completed its 
work in 1956, did not suggest deletion or modification of article 370, it therefore became 
a part of our Constitution, and this position was confirmed by the Supreme Court in 1970. 
The agreement has not brought about any new situation as regards article 370. 


4 मं गंध मर मं sh ae 


* Replying to Shri Shyamnandan Mishra’s observation, “What? Please quote”. 


I am not saying it cannot be changed....* 


aie ae मर ae oie fe ae अर ae 


This is what I said earlier also**. From what I have said about this article, it is clear 
that there is no question of any surrender, as alleged in some quarters, nor is there any 
loosening of the ties that bind the Centre and Jammu and Kashmir State. This is clear from 
the very fact that no such consequences flowed during all these years since article 370 
was incorporated. It is not correct to allege that this will create a precedent for other States. 
A distinctive constitutional features in respect of Jammu and Kashmir is that it has its own 
Constitution supplementing the Union Constitution and the specific provision in article 
370, 


There is some talk of mysterious, secret, clauses. I said the other day—and I should 
like to repeat—that there are no such secret clauses. 


ae कं मर ate aft a ae ae ae 


I first saw Sheikh Saheb in 1934 leading a procession. He was sitting on a pony so 
small—I do not know whether the pony was small or it merely looked small in 
comparison—that his feet were hardly off the ground. Even so, he managed to look 
dignified and every inch a leader. He was attracted to the message of national freedom, 
civil liberties and religious equalities which our national movement propagated and this 
became the guideline of his own National Conference which mobihsed the people of 
Kashmir. If he remained with India and enabled the people of the State to cast their lot 
with India, it was because of our party’s ideals and policies. If we had followed the policy 
of the Jan Sangh I do not think the people of Kashmir would have chosen to accede to 
India. 


Hon. Member Shri Shamim has already spoken on this subject with 
emotion...(/nterruptions). 


A reference has been made and is being made to subsequent events. There is no point 
in harking back on past misunderstandings and past mistakes. There were some internal 
developments which necessitated certain action. When we found that there was a change 
in the approach we did not hesitate to open the door to reconciliation and cooperation. 1 
should like to draw the attention of hon. Members who talk about any other dialogue to 
this last sentence. The opportunity was provided by Sheikh Abdullah with his readiness to 
join the mainstream of national life and to bring his experience and idealism into the task 
of strengthening the democratic and secular fabric of our country. 


att. मं oe a ak a 


* Replying to Shri Shyamnandan Mishra’s remarks, ‘Now there is no Constituent Assembly in India, so the 
Constitution of India cannot be changed or amended ? That is no argument’. 
** In reply to Prof. Madhu Dandavate’s remark, “It is as permanent as any other article”’. 


Sheikh Abdullah has categorically stated that he always believed that the well being 
and the future of Kashmir lie with the Indian Union. His reiteration that accession is not 
an issue and that plebiscite has become irrelevant has had beneficial consequences. Even 
those who had expressed reservation on the fact of accession have now come to accept its 
finality. The decision of the Plebiscite Front to change its objectives and its name sets doubts 
at rest. The existence of the Plebiscite Front had encouraged hostile elements outside the 
country. This should now end. But it is true that this does not mean that there will be no 
hostility. We have to take it in our stride and meet it. I have no doubt that Sheikh Sahib 
will do so. 


ae a af अर मंद मे a a af 


I certainly hope Shamim will help*. Why not? I should like the House to show its 
appreciation of Sheikh Abdullah’s vision. This latest example of his statemanship is worthy 
of his record as a veteran of our frecdom struggle. We should not underestimate his 
difficulties and he should not underestimate the difficulties we face here. Perhaps that was 
why it took us long, so that we could create an atmosphere in which an agreement and 
understanding of this kind would by welcomed by almost all the people. We have succeeded 
in this. It is up to us to see that this atmosphere is not changed or damaged in Kashmir 
and it is also up to us to see how we can help Sheikh Sahib in every way in overcoming 
the difficulties which he will face. 


I should also like to refer to the constructive part played by Mirza Afzal Beg during 
the discussions. His deep knowledge of the law, his sound political judgement were 
invaluable in reaching a satisfactory and realistic accord. Syed Mir Qasim played a notable 
part in negotiations through his self-effacing devotion to the larger interest. Shn Parthasarthi 
showed great patience and was ably assisted by Shri Balakrishnan. Sardar Swaran Singh’s 
knowledge of the political scene and his vast experience with negotiations stood him in 
good stead in dealing with this delicate task. 


I am glad that our hon. friend Shn Mavalankar referred to Mridula Sarabhai. I should 
like to inform him that before her illness, we had discussed these matters and she was 
aware that an understanding was being reached. So it was not as if she were in the dark 
regarding what was happening. I know that she was very happy at the outcome. 


We are all deeply concerned with the development of the two regions of Jammu and 
Ladakh. Dr. Karan Singh gave an account of the work undertaken in Jammu. Kushak Bakula 
who spoke just now felt that nothing has been done for Ladakh. This is not wholly correct. 
There has been development, but it is true that it is nowhere near adequate. I have taken 
special interest in these areas and have been visiting these regions regularly, even the most 
outlaying areas. During the discussions with Sheikh Abdullah I made it a point to mention 
the anxieties and difficulties of these regions and of certain sections of the people even in 
the valley. In recent months Sheikh Saheb himself has toured these regions and he assured 
me of his own awareness and his desire to treat all regions equitably. The composition of 
his Cabinet reflects this concern for Jammu and Ladakh. 


* Replying to Shri Piloo Mody’s remark, “With Shamim’s help”. 


There is a special situation in Jammu and Kashmir not only because of its own 
Constitution or of its Muslim majority but, as Dr. Karan Singh rightly pointed out, it has 
re ae main battle field during repeated aggressions against us. All the three regions of 
the State have borne the brunt of the attack. All sections of.the State population have fought 
valiantly for the national cause. I should like particularly to mention the brave Guyjars, 
Bakarwals and Gaddis. These are communities which have suffered much poverty and 
hardship. They deserve all the help we can give them by way of education and employment. 
I hope adequate attention will be given to their problems. 


I do not think I need well on the other points raised in the debate. As I said, most of 
them have been answered. I should like to revert to the point I have already made, that 
the understanding has to be viewed in the larger context of the need for adopting a 
conciliatory approach ॥ resolving problems facing the country. A problem that has been 
with us for a generation should be solved when we have the ability and opportunity to do 
SO. 


Although the Opposition loses no occasion to attribute motives to us and our Party, it 
has always been our endeavour to solve problems in the larger national interest. It is obvious 
that in this case also our party unit in Kashmir and our party at the national level has not 
thought of its own interest but only how to consolidate the unity and strength of our country. 


Let us not expect miracles and an immediate total ending of tension. Much as we all 
desire this, life is a series of problems. And solutions give rise to new difficulties of one 
kind or another. But an achievement based on understanding and confidence strengthens 
us to face challenges. It is in this spirit that we should look at this understanding. Once 
again I should like to thank all the hon. Members who have given it such warm support 
and shown appreciation of it. A few have not but the vast majority in the House and outside 
have shown appreciation and support and I thank them all. On behalf of you all I should 
like to send our good wishes to Sheikh Abdullah in the tasks ahead. 


मंध्मंप्कं Hook मे ate मै ae 


*Mr. Deputy Chairman, Sir, I beg to move that the statement regarding Jammu and 
Kashmir delivered on 24th February, 1975 in Rajya Sabha be taken into consideration. 


The agreement reached with Sheikh Abdullah has been received with great applause 
in the country during the last two weeks...(/nterruptions). Why do you feel ill about it ? 
It is not only a political agreement but also a luminous example of goodwill that has 
impressed the masses of the country overwhelmingly. Sheikh Abdullah has taken charge 
of his new assignment. As the hon. Members are well aware, he visited Delhi, called upon 
a number of his friends and took part in discussions on political level. A new chapter in 
the history of Jammu and Kashmir has been ushered in. I am quite confident that if we 
follow the path of co-operation and confidence, it will certainly be good for the State and 
also for the entire nation. This way, the other problems that are cropping up, as such life 


* Moving a Motion for the consideration by the House of the Statement made by the Prime Minister in relation to the 
State of Jammu and Kashmir, R.S. Deb., 12 March, 1975, cc. 163-64. 


700 


is not free from problems, can also be solved satisfactorily. Much has been said on this 
subject. Right now, I do not wish to say anything more. In case, some new issues come 
up during the course of the debate, I would respond to them after the discussion. I hope 
that the House will accord its approval to this agreement and convey its good wishes to 
the people of Jammu and Kashmir. 


ee कु कं कै क॑ eee 


*Mr. Deputy Chairman, Sir, I am grateful to the House for the warm and well- 
considered support it has extended to the accord with Sheikh Abdullah. In so doing, the 
House has accurately reflected the sense of satisfaction which the country feels in regard 
to this understanding. People have welcomed it not only because of the positive benefits 
arising out of it but also because of the manner in which a long-standing problem has been 
resolved by mutual discussions in a spirit of good will. This act of reconciliation is a fine 
example of the political maturity of our country. 


My colleague, Sardar Swaran Singh, has made my task easier in his spirited speech he 
has dealt with all the points raised, ably and lucidily. But I shall have to repeat some points, 
otherwise I may be misunderstood. But before I get on to those points, I should like to 
say that much of the credit for this achievement goes to Sheikh Abdullah. Only a person 
of his commitment to the good of the country could have been capable of the will power 
to overcome memories of past bitterness and unpleasantness. A lesser man could not have 
done this. 


Jan Sangh has received a drumming from most speakers, from our party and others. 
So, I shall not add to it. But, Sir, they have come out with their usual stereo typed arguments 
and unjustified apprehensions. I can understand their discomfiture at the approbation which 
the country as a whole has given towards our action. Our concern is not so much with 
what people say but with what strengthens the country and I have no doubt that this 
understanding strengthens and benefits our country. 


An hon. Member rather gleefully referred to the Simla Agreement, implying thereby 
that the agreement had perhaps failed. No one had expected or predicted a miracle. But 
there is no doubt that the Simla Agreement demonstrated-to the world our conciliatory 
approach, our serious desire to settle problems peacefully and to improve our relations 
with Pakistan. The several agreements on travel, communication, trade, etc., are in 
pursuance of the Simla Agreement and are of obvious mutual benefit. There are others 
who are not pleased with the agreement and a reference to this has been made by practically 
every speaker in the House, and these are the rulers of Pakistan. Mr. Bhutto has written to 
me and has told the press in Islamabad of his strong protest against our action. Frankly, 
Sir, I fail to understand what the protest is all about or in what way the accord runs counter 
to the Simla spirit. With due respect, I should like to say to Pakistan that it has overplayed 


+ Translated from Hindi. 
* Replying to the debate on the Motion regarding the Statement made by the Prime Minister in relation to the State 
of Jammu and Kashmir, R.S. Deb., 13 March, 1975, ८८. 205-13. 


701 


the Kashmir card. It is no longer a trump in their hand and they should desist from using 
it against India. 


Our policy in national as well as international affairs has been consistent. I know that 
Mr. Bhutto regards consistency as a quality of mediocre people, but I think that it is better 
for people to know where one stands and if one stands by ideals and values, then it is 
better to be consistent about them. We have always tried to adopt a conciliatory approach 
and settle problems through discussion. There is no reason to assume that the Government 
will give up this policy in relation to any particular problem, provided the others concerned 
also adopt a conciliatory approach. Positive benefits from this accord have accrued because 
of the policy of understanding and cooperation adopted on both sides. The agreed 
conclusions should not be weighed merely in the legal or constitutional balance. The 
substantial political gains are that misapprehensions which had been entertained, rightly 
or wrongly by certain sections in the State, have been removed and plebiscite becomes a 
non-issue. Both these are solid benefits. In regard to the legal and constitutional provisions, 
the attitude of adjustment and accommodation has to be seen in the approach to the 
provisions rather than the provisions themselves. 


With reference to article 370, which has been a specific provision incorporated in our 
Constitution from the very beginnings a section of the people in the State had the feeling 
that it was not being worked in the spirit in which it was conceived and that serious inroads 
had been made into the State’s powers. In our view, this is not correct. It was pointed out 
during the discussions that article 370 was being operated strictly in accordance with the 
procedure set out in it, but we cannot ignore the existence of such misapprehensions and 
the need for removing them. The agreed conclusions seek to do this by reiterating that 
article 370 will continue to govern the relationship between the State and the Centre. The 
purpose 1s to reassure those people who had doubts in this matter, but as I have said on an 
earlier occasion, it does not change the situation. In other words, the position has not 
changed because of this declaration. As regards residuary powers, the accord makes no 
change in the existing position. They have been with the State from the very inception 
and the accord gives a reassurance to the State that the constitutional provisions 1n this 
regard will continue to be exercised by the State. This position can be altered only in the 
manner provided in article 370, namely, by a Presidential order made with the concurrence 
of the State Government. When an occasion arose to invoke the residuary powers to enact 
a parliamentary law to deal with secessionist and similar activities, which may challenge 
the unity or the territorial integrity of India, the State Government readily agreed to a 
modification of the provision in order to enable the application of this law to that State. In 
the course of discussions it was conceded that the Centre should necessarily have this power 
to deal with such unlawful activities and that the modification made to the constitutional 
provision was justified. We are confident that if a similar occasion arises in future, the 
State will appreciate the need for the Centre having necessary powers to act and give the 
required concurrence. 


As is well known, Sheikh Abdullah was keen on a review of all Central laws which 
were applied to the State after 1953. During the course of discussions it was pointed out 


702 


that Central laws on matters in the Union List are generally essential for the effective 
functioning of the nation and can be reviewed only by Parliament. As regards Central laws 
on matters relating to the Concurrent List such as welfare measures, procedural laws, etc., 
the Constitution itself provides for the State Legislature to modify or repeal such Central 
laws after obtaining the President’s assent. The accord provides reassurance to the State 
Government that its proposals in this respect will be considered sympathetically when they 
come up for assent. By the way, we usually consider sympathetically proposals that come 
from any State. The particular socio-economic conditions and other special features of the 
State of Jammu and Kashmir will be considered by the Centre in dealing with such 
proposals. 


Shri Prakash Vir Shashtri has tried to draw unwarranted conclusions from my use of 
the word ‘experiment’ and my stress on the need for vigilance. Every country, and 
particularly one like India which has faced enormous problems and had special experiences, 
must always be vigilant. 


I should like to congratulate Shri Goray on his excellent speech. He has been able to 
appreciate the essence of the matter. But he also took the word ‘experiment’ in a very 
narrow sense. Aren’t all actions experiments, ultimately? No solution can be perfect. As I 
have said on many occasions, every solution itself gives rise to new problems. But what 
is the point of resurrecting the past? The past does raise questions; sometimes it answers 
them also. 


By quoting from Sheikh Saheb’s statement Shn Mariswamy has answered at least one 
of Shri Prakash Vir Shashtri’s questions. In any agreement, one must be willing to forget 
and forgive. But in this particular instance, one irrefutable fact stands out and this fact has 
been mentioned by many who have spoken. More than any other person, Sheik Saheb is 
responsible for Kashmir’s being with India. He provided the leadership to the popular 
movement which fought against the two-nation theory in the State and rallied the people 
to our national cause. I do not have to read about events. I was in the thick of them myself. 
Sheikh Saheb always strongly opposed Jinnah and the policies of the Muslim League. | 
remember, when Maulana Azad was released and came upto Kashmir, Sheikh Saheb had 
arranged a very big reception and public meeting. The whole city was out in welcome, 
except in one mohalla which was the stronghold of the Muslim League. Here they threw 
all kinds of things and generally tried to make the occasion as unpleasant as possible. But 
Sheikh Saheb and his colleagues and the people left no doubt as to where they stood and 
what their attitude was. 


When Kashmir was attacked, it was not the then Government of the State which 
defended it; on the contrary, they were simply unable to cope with the situation. It was 
Sheikh Saheb and his colleagues who mobilised the people, who built up the people’s militia 
and faced the invading hordes. I cannot forget the sacrifices and sufferings of the people 
of Kashmir and how courageously the young, untrained, unequipped people faced this 
challenge. I cannot forget the young Magqbool Sherwani who was caught by the Pakistanis 


and actually crucified on wooden cross. 


ERS a 


‘ 


Hi Atte 200 a ACN OO 
Soe ayant nie eR Seah 
eta a oleae ००००१ meg ne pi 
EA ce 27:27 
कप 


RG RRS 


While consultations were going on in the Government of India as to our own attitude 
and future action, there was a meeting in our house. I felt so deeply anxious and involved 
that-I squatted just outside the door, waiting for them to come outside and announce their 
decision. I do not know if Sheikh Saheb remembers but that evening he phoned me, not 
once, at least twice, to urge me to expedite decision, so that Indian Forces could be sent 
immediately. To brand those brave people as communalists would be a grave travesty of 
history. 


I was astonished that Shri Prakash Vir Shashtri should have expected us to take the 
House into confidence at various stages of the talks. This is never done nor could any 
negotiations be concluded successfully if such talks became public at earlier stages. In 
this particular case there has been no policy change nor any need to amend our Constitution. 


Some people feel that no speech of theirs would be complete without dragging in the 
Soviet Union. There 18 absolutely no truth in the allegation that the Soviet Union has had 
anything to do with this or any other decision which we might take. Their friendship has 
been demonstrated by their support to our decisions without any attempt at interference. 


So far as the Plebiscite Front is concerned, as my colleague, Mr. Om Mehta has said, 
the Executive has met and supported the understanding. The General Body has not met 
officially because it is difficult to call it in the present weather conditions obtaining in the 
Valley but the opinion of the people was evident from the welcome which Sheikh Saheb 
got in Srinagar. One cannot say if some people will not remain obstructionist. But this 
would make no difference to the value of the agreement or the new chapter which has 
been opened. 


Sir, I have been anxious for this agreement and have already given my reasons for 
this. But it is not true to say that there was no democracy or concern for the people and 
development before, or that the people of Kashmir were not with us. Several members, 
have spoken, Shri Om Mehta and Shri Yunus Saleem spoke moving of their own 
experiences. Members from the Opposition have also mentioned the heroic role played 
by the people of Jammu and Kashmir in resisting aggression not only in 1947 but on later 
occasions. All regions have borne the brunt of foreign aggresion and have stood solidly 
by us in times of travail. All of them equally deserve the nation’s gratitude. 


Sir, much needs to be done. But there is no doubt that the Valley has made progress. 
Jammu and Kashmir is a State with a difficult terrain. This, combined with the tension for 
repeated attacks, has aggravated the problems of development of the regions which 
comprise the State. But the Central Government has been paying special attention to the 
problems of Jammu and Ladakh. There are many tribes and groups in these areas as well 
as in the Valley itself who have specific problems of their own. The Valley has Guyyjars, 
Bakarwals and Gaddis who have their own difficulties. I discussed these questions with 
Sheikh Abdullah and he assured me that he is fully aware of these problems and has given 
the people of all the three regions assurance of equal treatment and of equal opportunity 
for participation in the political affairs of the State. 


Shri Mariswamy let his imagination run away with him when he tried to reconstruct 
the reasons for the recent changes in Maharashtra. I have no hesitation in saying that there 
is not an iota of truth in his version. He has also raised the issue of State autonomy again. 
He seems to challenge the statement which I made that while.we need a strong Centre 
there is nothing in the Constitution to stifle the initiatives of the State. 


The States complain of delay in giving Central clearance to some of their projects. 
And there is some justification in this, I must admit. The situation must be remedied and 
we are trying to remedy it. 


But often other States may also be concerned in some way or the other, and likely 
repercussions have to be taken into view. But the instances which the hon. Member gave 
were neither substantial nor relevant to support his case for greater State autonomy. What 
was involved in those matters is hardly a question of the authority of the State or of the 
Centre. Ecology, climate and such larger matters are sometimes affected. To give an 
example, if a State allows large-scale felling of trees, the effect is far-reaching and long 
lasting. We should make our people conscious of such issues. He spoke about a temple 
and I would like to tell the hon. Members about this particular matter. A few years ago, 
the Tamil Nadu Government wanted a statue of Raja Raja Chola to be installed inside the 
Tanjore temple. It was a modem, large-sized statue. The Archaeological Survey suggested 
another place outside the Maratha Gateway of the temple. The Tamil Nadu Government 
initially agreed to this new location. But later Shri Annadurai asked the Center to re-consider 
it. The archaeological Survey then pointed our that the statue would not harmonise with 
the original structure and would, therefore detract from its archaeological value. The Tamil 
Nadu Government later put up the statue outside the fort wall on the main road, well away 
from the temple, with an inscription that it has been installed there because the Central 
Government had not permitted inside. There was also a reference to the Varaha Murthi 
temple inside the main temple. Now, this 1s‘an active shrine, attracting large numbers of 
worshippers every day. It has its own plinth, but the shrine is very small, causing 
considerable inconvenience. So it was agreed that an enlarged shrine should be built on 
the plinth. This was done under the supervision of the local Superintendent of Archaeology. 
Unfortunately this gentleman permitted a rather ornate “shikhara” to be built over this 
shrine, presumably in response to local pressures. The Archaeological Survey is unhappy 
about this and I believe an explanation has been asked for from the person concerned. Art 
and architecture are not matters of political autonomy but should take into account our 
historical traditions. All over the world today there is greater consciousness about the need 
-tO preserve national treasures in their original forms, for these treasures belong not to a 
region or even to a nation but to mankind as a whole. 


Shri Mariswamy also said that constitutional amendments had taken away the rights 
of the people. This is an astonishing interpretation. On the contrary, the purpose of most 
of our important amendments to the Constitution was to secure social and economic justice 
to the weaker sections of the people rather than to perpetuate the privileges of a few. And 
so far as I remember, his party supported these amendments when they were put to vote 


here. 


wate ०४ ०४८०72:- 77 7::%::८.७४२०४ ८-०0 RN, Cole ANS Sale 22/70/2722: 27:75 5072: “5०/02/0700 27022:.73:0500 0:55 ८7:00. 2 "0.0 RL ARO ORC) 
ns Reet CRE See eee RNIN LE SD 77:76: 7:70: 7:00: 777 77:77 72, 7775: /270 : CLERC Se ORR SE TR SEL SD A OSE Le 


ie Se eee a का ee ee 


There is no need for me to say more to commend the understanding, for people have 
already extended overwhelming welcome to it. It is an accord which is good for the State 
and good for the country. It strengthens our national ideals of secularism and democracy 
I am sure that the House will give its good wishes to Sheikh Abdullah and his colleagues 
and to all the people of Jammu and Kashmir. 


Sir, before I sit down, I would like to tell the hon. Member Shri Rasheeduddin what a 
delight it was to listen to his speech. I do not know how far his barbs, so pointed and apt, 
went home to those against whom they were directed. 


Thank you. 


706 


Sey 
ree 


9:04 27005: ph nS ce NS EN 
eee 
A 


eas 
POLO 
we) 


ree rates AS 
27772 2८ 


Situation in Assam* 


Sir, Iam sorry I could not be here earlier. I was either busy in receiving the French 
President or was in the other House where the debate on the President’s Address has started. 
I deeply share the concern of the hon. Members. The situation in Assam requires very 
careful attention and going into some depth. I have not heard the other speeches. I have 
heard hon. Shri Bhupesh Babu’s remarks just now. It is ttue—and I agree with him—that 
this situation could have been prevented if earlier information and proper handling had 
been available nght in the beginning. However, it is no use harking back to that tme. Now 
we are in the midst of an extremely serious situation where there is violence of a very 
cruel and, I should say, almost primitive kind, the way in which Mr. Maitra and some other 
people were brutally murdered. I believe there was some criticism of person I sent. That 
person was invited by some people in Assam. Since he was going I thought that he should 
be reinforced and, therefore, we also sent Shri Shanker Dayal Sharma, who has been the 
Congress President and who has been in touch with Assamese matters earlier also. Their 
visit was a useful one. Perhaps they did not meet all the people they should have met, but 
still they met a very large number of people and helped our party. They went on behalf of 
my party to get a much clearer view of the situation. In the meantime, I had asked the 
Governor to come here and had detailed talks with him. Perhaps the House knows that 
just before Parliament began its sittings, I had a meeting with the leaders of the Opposition 
and we decided that the leaders of the national political parties in Assam should be asked 
to come here so that there could be a discussion with the leaders of the Opposition here in 
Delhi to seek a solution. We agree that this should not be considered a party matter or a 
Government mater, but should be viewed in a much broader light. So I am in touch with 
them and we are trying to fix a date. In the meantime, I had received a request to meet the 
students. But before I could respond—because this was actually before I was sworm in— 
they had returned to Assam. After that, I sent a message. I believe there is some concern 
there why I approached the students and not the other groups. I am willing to meet anybody 
who comes here. Because I had initially been given a message and told that it was from 
the students, I had sent a reply to them. But the situation is a serious one and essential 
supplies are not reaching various places, apart from the violence and the sort of posters 
about which you yourself have mentioned. No problem 1s insoluble. Assam has many 
wounds and the root cause 1s largely economic. Communications are not as good as they 
should be. As I said, no problem is insoluble but we must assure that no one should incite 


* Replying to the Calling Attention regarding the cleteriorating law and order situation in the North-Eastern region of 
the country, R.S. Deb., 25 January, 1980, cc. 67-69. 


eh 


sagan: a , 
27075 2 00% 3 
ECCS 


people or to inflame the situation or even, I would say, to lay blame because at this moment 
if we blame anybody that may complicate the situation. Without naming any parties, I 
should like to say that some very serious allegations have been made against some parties. 
We do not want any of these things to be talked about because our major interest is how 
to defuse the situation, how to calm down the people, how to meet their genuine fears and 
how to see that there no injustice is done. 


Different sections of the people are calling different people foreigners. So, who should 
be called a foreigner, is a matter which we have to decide. Obviously, people who have 
lived for years, have voted, have struggled with us, have shared our joys and sorrows cannot 
suddenly be termed foreigners. If there are any real foreigners, certainly we should decide 
what should be done. If they want to stay in India, they should be rehabilitated; if Assam 
does not want them, we have to consider other places. So there are many aspects of the 
problem. I can assure the House of our deep concern and that we are in constant touch 
and we are trying to have a meeting as soon as possible so that we can have the ideas of 
different sections on the various matters. Thank you, Sir. 


708 


Demonstration in Bengal over the Situation in Assam* 


I was present in the House yesterday when the hon. Members were expressing their concern 
regarding the demonstration in Bengal. I would have spoken then and there but for the fact that 
other Members raised other issues and started shouting in most unparliamentary language. 


ae fe मर Ha ak af ae ak 


We sympathise with the genuine grievances of the Assamese people. At the same time, we are 
also aware of the hardships which the agitation in Assam is causing to certain sections of the people 
in Assam itself, in West Bengal and to other parts of the country. We cannot ignore the genuine 
apprehensions and fears which have risen in the minds of people in West Bengal and the fact that 
emotions are running high there also. The Youth Congress merely wishes to give expression to his 
widespread feeling. 


2k ak Of 2 ak ak He ae मै 


Indeed the Chief Minister himself has called it a just cause, and I seem to remember—I cannot 
locate at the moment where the news appeared—the Chief Minister mentioning some time ago 
something about the mounting concern of Bengal at the continuing agitation in Assam. On. 
Wednesday I had already conveyed to the House my own and the Government'’s desire that nothing 
should be done which could lead to an aggravation of the situation either in Assam or in Bengal. 
(Interruptions) 


The Youth Congress has itself issued a press release appealing to all its members and others 
not to indulge in any action that might worsen the situation and has urged that the moves that we 
here in Delhi have initiated for finding a solution to the difficult Assamese problem. should be 
supported. This news has also come over the Radio this morning, and I am sure that this counsel 
will prevail. 


Our report says that yesterday’s strike in schools and colleges was peaceful. I think all parties 
recognise the need for restraint and I certainly hope that not only will the situation in Bengal be 
peaceful, but also that the students and youth of Assam will appreciate the concern felt in other 
States and the difficulty which all the people of India are experiencing, and respond by showing 
responsibility and moderation. 


* Statement regarding demonstration in West Bengal over the situation in Assam, L.S. Deb., 21 March, 1980, 
cc. 263-65. 


709 


ra 
‘ 
Een, aN o 

wv) Se tea, aa Se गवाह 

Se Ps छ, ,. 
22227 00000: le ee 22 Dee 

= . (a की A ro, . 
५ oa on 2 BS Fares गज वर oA s pie mean a ere ७५० 22200 page एप 2010८: om eee : x 200. 2९ aus aor 


०५2 


Agitation in Assam* 


Sir, as I said earlier, I have to apologise to the House for not being able to be present 
here. But I have read through the resume of the speeches which have been made. There 1s 
nothing very new that one can say on this subject. We are all deeply concerned about what 
is happening in Assam and what is happening in Tripura. Although the two are connected, 
they are two different problems, different motivations, and so on. So far as Assam is 
concerned, I am not going into all the points. I just want to comment on a few things which 
have been raised. There is no doubt about the gravity of the situation. My frend, Shri 
K.C. Pant, gave the example of a fire. How do we put out that fire ? That has been my 
concern. One hon. Member, Mr. Kakati, said that although I have given only twenty minutes 
to the students in Gauhati. I had given three hours to the minorities. This is how 
misunderstandings crop up. I have seen the students on three different occasions and only 
in Dispur I was a little short of time. Even then I did see them for more than twenty minutes. 
But previously I had met them for quite long periods, for as long as they wanted. After 
that the Home Minister spent hours with them. Again and again certain Members have 
said there should be a dialogue, there should be negotiations. We have not stopped the 
dialogue. We have taken the initiative in arranging these meetings. In fact, Mr. K.C. Pant 
contradicted himself. First he said there should be a dialogue; then he said the Prime 
Minister should not have been introduced into it. I was not introduced.... 


sake ok 2 ok ae 3a 


I know, But the students insisted that they wanted to see me.** Should I reply ‘no’, I 
do not want to see you, and give them an excuse to say that she is not seeing us and 
therefore we cannot agree to anything? They wanted to sce me and therefore I met them. 
Their first request was: will you come to Assam ? Naturally I said, ‘yes, I shall come to 
Assam’. Maybe, it was wrong of me. But it was a little enough to accede to. But first we 
met the Opposition leaders, this the students held as a grievance. It was also said, that as I 
was going out of the country and yet could not find time to visit Assam; this shows that I 
am not serious about the problem. I did not go with much hope of any solution, because 
gradually I was coming to understand that there was a deeper motivation. I am not accusing 
the students. I do not think that this is a students’ movement. They are in it but they are 


* Participating in the debate on the Statutory Resolution seeking approval of the Proclamation issued under article 
356 of the Constitution in relation to the State of Assam, R.S. Deb., 11 June, 1980, cc. 189-210. 


** Replying to Shri K.C. Pant’s remark : “There are many levels of dialogue”. 


710 


being used as a facade. They are sincere in what they want. But there are other 
undercurrents. It is not possible to pinpoint them exactly. But they are there. And the proof 
of it is, which I think the Home Minister mentioned in the other House and also Shri 
Makwana, that on several occasions they have agreed to certain things or they themselves 
have put forward a formula to which we have agreed. But after an hour or so they phoned 
and said, “No, this cannot be done.” Therefore, it did seem as if somebody else was 
prompting them. When the students meet me, it is as if it is a deputation from some foreign 
country because they insist on the conversation taking place through an interpreter. At the 
last meeting in Delhi it was clear that the interpreter was not interpreting me properly 
because we also had an Assamese speaking person. We found that the interpreter was 
leaving out large chunks of what I was saying and when we pointed this out, he assured 
$, “Iam just going to do it; but listen to this student first”. Somehow, in a roundabout 
way what I said was not fully conveyed. This is not terribly important, but it does give an 
inkling. Now I have disgressed from the main thing. So, although I had meetings in Dispur 
with AASU and with Gana Sangram Parishad, the only long meeting was with the 
representatives of the political parties. I did not look at my watch and so I do not know 
how long it was; but, as hon. Members here are all in politics, they know that we tend to 
speak more than any other group or any other profession in the world. So that was a longish 
meeting and that put my entire programme out of gear. So for Nowgong I had very little 
time left. One hon. Member has alleged that I spent three hours with the minorities. Actually, 
the total time I spent in Nowgong was 40 minutes. Some time was taken in going to and 
fro the helipad and in the rest of the time I met several deputations apart from having a 
talk with the Governors’ Adviser. All this was in 25-30 minutes. I certainly met a deputation 
of the minorities also, but I doubt if they had more than five or six minutes, the same time 
as the others. I have read that some leaders, not here in the House but outside, have alleged 
that there is something mysterious about this meeting and some deal was made. Now it 
was not a private meeting. The Government people were sitting there. As we had all missed 
our lunch, in the meantime some people were trying to bring tea etc. The room was so 
small that while I was meeting one delegation, one delegation was in the process of being 
hustled out and another one was trying to force its way in. So there was some confusion. 
Nobody can say that it was a private meeting. It was as public as if sitting outside. 


Now nowhere have I called the students anti-national. It is very laudable effort on the 
part of Shri Pant to say that no one in this country is anti-national. Then who is bringing 
out the posters ? Who is saying, “Get out, you Indian 00257. All I have said in my public oe 
and private statements is : why can’t those who are in favour of an amicably peaceful का 
settlement condemn such actions ? There has been no condemnation. I put this to the : 
students also. And when I talk about the minorities, I do not mean merely the religious 
minorities but linguistic and provincial, and many of the people whom today the Assamese cee 
are considering foreigners. A very pertinent point was made in the other House today : 
What does the Government mean by foreigners. The real meaning of foreigners is those 
people who are not Indian citizens but are citizens of another country. But here we have a 
very special situation. On one side is whatever was said before the creation of Bangladesh. 
But once Bangladesh came into being, the sort of atmosphere created did change the 
situation. Many refugees came and at that time we accepted them. There is no secret or 


ogee 

23008 
a 
52% 
रा 
see 
- 
Se 
Rs 


SEN 


i 
me 


a 
= ss «८४४९५ रे 


ieee 
3 

272, > 

0 न 

कर प गम 


22:22 sy 22202 2420 Re ses aS ms CESS 


SR Oe DSS 


x 
te 


ANN ns Set 
a CEES ee 
aay 


— Rens 


711 


otherwise pact between Mujib and myself on this issue, but some talks and letters were 
exchanged between our the then Rehabilitation Minister, Shri Khadilkar, and his counterpart 
on the other side and it is true that they agreed that only from 1971 onwards will we ask 
people to go back. But to say that I am not willing for negotiation 1s not correct. There 
has been no confusion in my mind or in my words. I have said very clearly that I am not 
committed to any date. How did we say 1971 to start with ? We had a meeting of the 
leaders of the Opposition parties in Parliament. They are the ones who suggested that we 
should stick to 1971. 


ae a ok kk मे कं a 


Along with the Assam party leaders*. Everybody did not entirely agree. One person 
did not agree. One person stayed quiet. But all the other stressed 1971. Afterwards we 
wanted to know whether the students were willing to move from 1951 at all. They were 
insisting on 1951 and nothing else. This was the question. It was the Governor’s idea that 
he probe their mind. On his own he suggested 1967. But he made it clear that he had not 
discussed the date with us. He was first trying to find out whether they were willing for a 
spirit of give and take. They rejected it. Once they rejected it, there was no question of 
our considering that date. We were told that they were sticking to 1951. Have I given any 
date to them ? Only at that ime. When I found that the students were regarding it as a 
hardening of our attitude, I said, “Let us forget about it. Do you want the work to begin or 
not ?7 We cannot begin deportations today of persons from 1951, even if Government were 
to agree. Government has not agreed but, even if we were to agree, we cannot do this. 
Physically impossible. Therefore, I said, “If you want this problem to be solved, let us 
make 1971 the starting date, not the cut-off date but the starting date of deportation. And 
my argument was that there was no controversy about this date, either with the Opposition 
leaders or Bangladesh or anybody else. And also I said that along with this, anybody else 
who should have been deported earlier or who was deported according to earlier orders or 
if he was on the list of being deported and either not been deported or had gone and 
returned, then, he should also be sent back. That was my proposal to them. It 1s not because 
I am saying so myself but I do think this is a very fair proposal. I said, “Do not think that 
I am trying to gain time or use it as an excuse to force you to end your agitation. Therefore, 
while this deportation is going on, simultaneously we will go into all the other questions. 
But you withdraw the agitation for the simple reason that it is not possible to have 
negotiations when here is anger and fear in the minds of the people’’. It is not just that the 
minorities are a little agitated. They are in such fear of their lives that you have only to 
look at their faces, you do not even have to listen to what they say. 


I am not interested in who goes and gives reports. And particularly regarding the 
institution that has been mentioned, a lot can be said into which I do not want to enter. 
The matter had come up in the previous session of Parliament about their donations from 
outside. So, we are not interested in their opinion in these matters. In fact, we do not even 
know what their intention was. 


* Responding to Shri P. Ramamurthi's remark, 31018 with the Assam party leaders.” 


55 


712 


NO 


SURES ae rans 
aes a ma 
: oes 


RK ne 

es 
ee! eee nasa! aoe 
Pane SOS 


20270 
q ms 


The agitation has not been non-violent. Again and again the students repeat that it is 
non-violent. But it is not only Bengalis who are being killed, it is not only the other 
minonties who are being killed but the people of Assam are also being killed. People who 
have no other connection with any place ever, have said that they are forced to be in the 
agitation because they dare not say that they are against it. If I name them, their lives will 
be in danger. I have their names. This is the situation. 


What happened at the very beginning of the agitation ? I have got to remind you that 
at the very beginning, the agitation started in July, 1979 or round about that time. It had 
gone on for many months before we came on the scene. That is no excuse for us. I am 
just pointing it out because sometimes Members have a short memory. At the beginning 
of the agitation-this has been given by one of the groups who came to meet me-the 
members of the AASU guided the foreigners’ eviction operation at Phukong near Gauhati, 
where two tribal cultivators, Habib Ram Boro and Debu Ram Boro, decendants of the 
Latchet Soldiers who defended Assam during the Ahom rule from aggression, were brutally 
killed. This is just one example; there are others. I do not want to go into them. Now, our 
argument with them has been on the definition of a foreigner ? People who have adopted 
Assam as their State for hundreds of years, are they foreigners ? May be Bengalis still 
wear sans, but they have made Assam their home. They have helped in its development. 
But if there is propaganda “You throw out these people, you will acquire the land, you 
will get the jobs”, naturally the movement will become popular. But it is not a thing to be 
encouraged. In fact, 1. is not going to work in that way either, as we have seen in other 
situations. We have had previous experience of such agitation on a smaller scale. It does 
not help in giving greater employment. Greater employment can only come through greater 
development. 


With the students we spoke also about development programmes, about economic 
programmes. Government of India have formed a special Ministers’ Group and also a 
special Secretaries’ Group and we are willing to immediately take programmes in hand. 
But do they want any of the programmes to start now ? I put a small proposal. Our Health 
Ministry approached me that there is a special, virulent type of malaria which affects only 
that part of the world, that is from Assam and a belt right across Asia perhaps up to 
Cambodia. It is fortunately not in the rest of India. I said, “Carry on with your agitation, 
but let this anti-malaria programme go on in your State so that people are not affected.” 
They were not willing. I said, let us send a team or two, which as a small token, because 
they cannot go into every village, and to destroy the larvae you have to go to every village, 
spray every pond and so on. Now when our team went, an Assamese official is reported 
to have said that he did not want their interference. He said, “Do you know whom you are 
talking to ? You are not talking to an Indian. You are talking to an Assamese citizen.” Again 
this is only one example. There are worse ones which 1 do not want to say here. This 1s 
the situation. This is the atmosphere created by the agitation. Are the students in control ? 
I do not know I honestly cannot say that they are in full control. Shri Pant rightly said that 
we should separate those elements who are sincere and who are bothered about the 
grievances of the Assamese people from the others. But no effort is being made for this. 
No separation at all is visible between those people. We know what happened to a person 


2 70:72: 702: 
ag 


OE ROS 

> 7५०१४ ५2220 ऐ 
(०१५०५४ ia 
डर १522. 7९ 222 ues 200: RNs ona asec Aah Coney Ra CRED 


713 


७४ Sec ee wears 
०८०००, 
< 


SENN 


yo 

se! 

oP 
aN * od ‘2 
Paes Reset 
१०५ 5292 


ear eteaptarbtcnatasbcatevenen tint ०००० जानना क बटन २००००००३ ०,०५५ 
5202202: 20 22:05 72207: ee RON 
डा 


cee 
xo 
zs 


1०5००, 5 
Sao 


se 
SRS ‘ Sept २९:०२ 


१०००००००००- ०३० 
2222 
5८2: 


stank 
ROR 


SRR. SRN 
eS RRR a 


a NG Re I Se 
pee ee 


5525 
Re, 

ote tw, 
~ 


who works in a bank, for instance. He is an employee; he does not own it. He was asked 
by two girl students to close down the bank. He said, ‘Well, I am just an employee. It is 
my 100 and 1 may risk my job if I close down’. Then the Assam Police came and said, 
‘“*Yoy close it down or else we will 5९८", What could he do ? He-closed it down. That is 
not a non-violent way. And it certainly was not the students’ agitation which was closing 
it down; it was the force of the police. And a large part of the Assamese Government 
machinery is behaving in a similar manner. The Governor tried very sincerely. No body 
could have been more accommodating than he was. And this is why he is in trouble. In 
the other House they were all shneking for his removal. He is in trouble, because he thought 
he could separate the two elements, the genuine ones from those who are openly being 
anti-Indian. This is not hidden. Their posters, their slogans, their talk with people—this is 
not hidden. 


Now, our figures of the dead is 150. But I am told by some groups that 510 people are 
missing mostly of the minorities and they believe them to be dead. I do not know whether 
it is so. An instance was given that on the midnight of the 28th. AASU volunteers—there 
were some people who had been beaten up and were in hospital—took away in injured boy 
from the hospital and murdered him by extracting his eyes and crushing his knee and elbow 
joints. They also did not leave the heart in the 00079. The body was returned home by the 
police personnel the next day. There are other such instances. Is this non-violence ? Even 
then we say we do not have closed mind. 


We ok 3K OK मर ae He मर 


I am not giving it as my statement. I said these are some of the incidents that are being 
brought in our notice. There are others who are dead. We know they are dead. I met the 
relatives of some of them. If they are alive, you produce them. That is all I can say. 


Again, I would like to tell the hon. Member—who made that statement-that I did not 
have a single meeting in Patna district. He was talking about a speech I made in Patna. I 
may tell him that I did not have any meeting in Patna.... 


me he मर ae ae मे me aK मं 


He referred to a speech supposed to have been made in Patna. This 15 not so. He can 
easily verify it. I did not go to Patna. Surely a visit cannot be hidden. Either I went or 1 
did not go.... 


... The fact remains that I did not go to Patna. 


Furthermore, I have never said the movement itself is anti-national or that sort of a 
thing. I do not know whether it was the same member or another who repeatedly quoted 
me as having said, that it is an out and out anti-national movement. I have always said 
that there is a segment which seems to be anti-national. As far as I know, others have not 
condemned them. This is my grouse against them. 


As I said, so far as we are concerned, the dialogue is on, we still are and always will 
be willing for talks. We are interested in finding a solution. There is one other point I want 


714 


to make. It is understandable that the Assamese should be sensitive to the question of their 
identity as every group is. And we in India have encouraged this. We do not want everybody 
speaking the same language, everybody having the same religion; we do not want to 
regiment people. We have always believed in diversity strengthening unity instead of 
weakening unity. But are these Assamese boys equally sensitive to the desire of the tribals 
to keep their identity ? Shri Pant is aware of this. (Interruption) It is because they are not 
willing. And the same thing is happening now. Within Assam the tribal people orginally 
went along with this movement but now they feel that they are the ones who are going to 
be crushed, their language will be lost, their personality erased. This is what 15 happening.... 


2 2 मं 2 ak a मंद a 


There are many other things. Now, the number of people injured—2000; the number of 
persons rendered homeless—more than 20,000; arson, more than 3500 houses or huts burnt; 
about murder you have heard of Dr. Moitra of Oil India. Then, Shri Niyogi of Arunachal 
Pradesh, he just gave a lift to a few students in a truck and he was murdered on the way. 
One lady, an Oriya lady, was asked to pay money. By the way there were a lot of forcible 
collections. This old lady was asked to give money. Either that old lady did not have money 
or she did not want to give money; so they cut off her nose and she bled to death. Many 
people are still untraced. 


Naturally we have to go by the Constitution. We have to see that there is no great burden 
on Assam. Everybody agrees. But how do we relieve that burden ? I must say to the credit 
of the students, when I put these problems to them, they did pause and think about them. 
As I said even if we wish to remove them, people, where are we going to take them ? 
Which state will they go to? How are the arrangements to be made ? It 1s easy just to talk 
about 51 or 61 or any date. It involves a lot of other considerations. While this atmosphere 
is there, it is not going to work even with regard to industries. Suppose I go to a 
businessman today and say “you put up an industry”. Will he put up one in Assam in this 
atmosphere ? The Assamese will ask : “Who is this foreigner who has put up this industry?” 
I am not talking in the air. I had such a conversation. 


It is easy to support an agitation without seeing all its consequences. There is the 
question of refugees. Those who are born in India are Indian citizens. What about their 
old parents—old father and old mother? Can we say : “Their names are not in the citizenship 
register and therefore throw them out.”’ Where are they going to go ? When we say we are 
going to move all those people, are we going to shoot them dead ? How are you going to 
deal with them ? These are not statistics. These are men, women and children. Unless you 
look at it from the human angle and unless you find out who are the people involved, how 
are you going to solve it ? The problem cannot be solved just by talking about it. You 
have to come to the table with a calm attitude. I think you can ask the students. I have 
always spoken to the students like another, wanting to help them individually, as a group 
and as a State. Whenever I have talked to them they were on the point of saying ‘yes’. 
This is with regard to the starting day of 1971. I put it to Assamese professors and to 
Assamese lawyers. I asked them what more could I have done ? They said : You are right. 
But we have no choice and must join processions. A situation has arisen where we seem 


Ee 


A 
* 
ees 
ARE 
Sete 


ENS 
2225: 
जन ऑन 


SERENE 
caesar 


21277: 2 0 
Eee 


eee 
RS 


See 


Se igs 
AN ज फट घ 


5 


to be going round and round. The extremists may be a very small segment. Outsiders may 
be playing a role. Outsiders, as we know, do not work through foreigners coming here. 

_ They work through the local people. This small segment is getting the upper hand over 
this agitation. This is what is bothering me. I am not doubting the sincerity of the Assamese 
people. Nobody wants their language to be submerged. Nobody wants their culture to be 
submerged. As I said to them, it is not by shutting your mind that your personality grows. 
It is by contact and meeting other people and so on. What is India’s strength ? As sung by 
Iqbal, how has Indian civilisation, of all the civilisations of the world, survived thousands 
of years ? Because we have kept our doors open; because we had adopted new ideas, 
welcomed them, absorbed them and sometimes changed them into our own. This is what 
has helped us. We never said : This is India, nobody should come here. When we lost to 
the foreigners it was at times when we shut our minds and did not take to new technology. 
Then we became weak. When we accepted people we grew stronger. I am not saying that 
more and more people should come into Assam. I am not saying that. But the attitude of 
being against everybody is not helping them. This is what has created the problem earlier 
with the tribals. It has come up again. Only yesterday I had a group of tribals to see me. 
They were just as excited as others with regard to their nghts. They say : What has happened 
to our language ? Why should we learn Assamese ? If the Assamese were not taking a 
chauvinistic attitude, these people also would not have felt like this. They were talking 
Assamese; they were learning that language. Therefore, you have to see how all these things 
in that context react on other people. If they say ‘we stick to 1951’ what do we do ? Is it 
physically possible ? Some of you have experience of administration. Is it physically 
possible to start doing from 1951 ? It will take years and years before you get anything 
done. If we start with 1971, we can start immediately. This was what I suggested. But 
they say : We do not want to hear 1971. Let it be a few years back. But when they say 
‘only 1951’, then the doubt does come in my mind whether they are serious about solving 
this or not serious. 


There is no contradiction between my thoughts and what my colleague, the Home ee 
Minister has said. We both feel that there are times when a firm attitude has to be taken. If * ce : 
you had met the minorities or the tribals or the other people, you would have a better as 
realization of the situation. By minorities I mean not only Muslims, they were also Hindus 
of different States, they were Nepalese. The Nepalese have another problem because, until 
1976, we had allowed them to come in. We never told them that they could not come. 
They say, “How can you apply 1971 to us ? If you want to throw us out you can at the 
most start from 1976.” So, if you talk to them, you will understand the real feelings. The 
Jonger an agitation of this sort continues, the more it 1s in the interest of those who are not 
for India’s strength and welfare. We all know that there are such elements in the world, 
not just against India, but against other developing countries. Are we going or encourage 
them ? I am not going to play politics. I have mentioned in one or two of my speeches 
about the Jana Sangh and the RSS who now call themselves the BJP. Anyway to me they 
remain the Jana Sangh and the RSS, no matter what new name they assume. They are 
encouraging the movement. The statements by Mr. Deoras and others are very clear on 
this. Nobody has denied them. A few speeches were made here strongly supporting the 
movement. I am not making any kind of division, I mean, not division, but distinction. 


4K ee ak a भर 


716 


*The Register is not a very authentic document.** 


About the word I used, which has been objected to by the hon. Member***. I am 
prepared to withdraw that. I do not mean it in the sense in which the hon. Member is taking 
it. I was specifically talking of the language at the moment.... 


Wi मंद मर ae he ai aie 2 मैप 


My point is, if you insist that people should learn Assamese it is resisted. Just as the 
hon’ble friend opposite objected to Hindi. (/nterruptions) I do not know whether since 
joining the Janata Party, he has learnt it or not...(Jnterruptions) 


Therefore, I have no objection in withdrawing that word. I am prepared to agree to 
anything, provided that the lives, limbs and property of the so called minorities are safe- 
guarded and their fear is removed. While fear is there, even if the agitation stops, it will 
not be a normal situation. And fear also makes people react. 


There 18 another point he made—about the minorities who called me their leader, I do 
not know what they said. They may have said it. But I had no information about their 
procession or what they were going to do, until it took place. To me they expressed the 
fear that their lives were in danger and that we must send impartial people. ..(/nterruptions) 


Another point made was that once the AASU tried to identify foreigners themselves 
they turned out to be genuine Indian citizens, with one exception. Everybody is so excited 
there...(/nterruptions) 


a 4c और age oe और aK 2 2 


The farther back you go, the longer it will take to be effective. That is why we advised 
to start from 71 and in the meantime, we can talk and see other meeting points. That would 
give assurance to all of their safety and the genuine citizens are not going to be thrown 


out. 


* Commenting on the observation made by Shri Dinesh Goswami. 


** The National Register of 1951. 
*** Responding to Shri Dinesh Goswami's observation, .. .the Prime Minister has used the words, ‘“‘chauvinistic attitude 
of the Assamese people”. I will beg of her not to use these words because these will naturally hurt the sentiments 


of the people of Assam. 


2227: रे 283: os TEES 7४४८ पट 2205: RRS 
२207: seo Sion 222 
४ ०५722: % ४४४४८ 


The Country is Higher than Any Movement* 


Sir, I did not want to intervene in this debate.* All the points that could have been 
made have been made from both sides. I have been so deeply anxious about this whole 
question, and today my heart is so full of sorrow that I can hardly speak. Every life that is 
lost, whoever it may be, hurts. We can find no words of comfort for the people I have 
seen in the various camps. I have visited camps in which there were Assamese people only, 
camps in which there were tribals only, camps in. which there were minority communities 
and in some they were mixed. But if I have got up, it is because my name has been quite 
unnecessarily brought into this debate. The Opposition was very excited just now. I do 
not know what these documents are, I do not know whether they are accurate. But I do 
not know that such opinions have been expressed. They have appeared in newspapers. Some 
I have read and they were also repeated to me by the Assamese as well as others when I 
went to Assam. I do not know who has propagated such ideas. But the talk of blood bath 
and other such provocative pronouncements are current amongst the people there. 


I shall first dispose of some of the small points, it seems that Shri Vajpayee 1s much 
concermed about the clothes I wear. I might inform him that I am deeply committed to 
each group in India maintaining its cultural and other identity and from that point of view, 
in order to show that we do not consider that one dress is superior to another or more 
beautiful than another, I have been wearing the costumes of different sections as far as 
possible. I have been wearing Mekhala not just when I went for the Assam election, but 
since 1955, rf not earlier. I have worn it in Delhi, I have worn it inside Parliament and I 
have worn it in foreign countries as I have worn the Garodress the Jammu dress and various 
other costumes depending, of course, on the climate and the occasion. It was also said 
that I made a speech जा Bengali. If I knew Bengali well enough, I would have spoken in 
Bengali, but unfortunately I don’t. So, when one section of the public said, “Please speak 
in Bengali’ I spoke one sentence saying that ‘I can understand Bengali, but I cannot speak 
it well enough, so I shall speak in Hindi’. That was the extent of my Bengali speech. 


So far as the ending of the speech is concerned, I do vary the ending of my speeches 
depending on what the people will respond to. I have tried hard to get people to respond 
to Jai Hind in some parts of the country. They do not always do so. So, you have to say 
what they will respond to. Usually, in my meetings in Tamil Nadu-I must say I do not 
approve of their anti-Hindi Policy but I do approve of encouraging all our different State 


* Participating in the debate on the Statement made by the Minister of Home Affairs Shri Prakash Chand B. Sethi on 
21 February, 1983 regarding Assam, LS. Deb., 22 February, 1983, cc. 338-47. 


vA’ 


ay 


¥ LT at tals 
10772 22220 <x 
CREE RAD ED Beco 


2. 2 hin ea 
Seen re 
४7, 


ee 


oa 
2५०६ 


हक ४० 


av 
a 


9 
scat 


cs 
10222 220) 


Se nt 


nthe STAT 
nee 


STS 
००००० ० कक 
OS 

पु 


J, 
Seat Sata, 


‘fs 
essere e 


ee 


०८-१० 
००३7 ६2०% 


Buns 


RONEN Re 


> ., 
re” ~ oy 
522 

४५९ ' 

. 

go 
ofa 
222 
1४४ 

Ag? dt! i “ 
4 0, ‘ 
०८ ८०००५८ 
४०712. 
abate: 
naan 
a 22060 
12002 
es: ९,९५५ 
oe 
५22 et, 
३४१२००५०९५ 
ante 
८०5054012५५, 
21११९ 64, 


2222 2:22 
SENG 


१०१ जीप 
4200 20022 


Os] 


१५ 
at Atty 


७०, 


languages—in Tamil Nadu I say ‘vanakam’. In all States if I happen to know some local 
words I try to use them. In Assam I also said ‘Namaskar’ in some places, ‘vande mataram’ 
in others. In some places I shouted Jai Hind. In one place I felt that a section of women 
who I had been told understood Hindi, did not seem to be understanding a single word. 
So to create a sort of rapport I said ‘khuda hafiz’. I do not think that there is anything 
wrong in my saying this. In the Khasi hills, I say ‘God bless you’. That is what they say 
and I respond. This is not political in any way. If we want to encourage our people and 
want them to feel one with us, we have to adopt some of their phrases and do other things 
which would make them more conscious of our unity and assure them that it is not a unity 
of unequals. All people have an equal right to their language, their costume and customs 
and their culture. 


Then, I think some hon. Member has accused me of saying that nobody would be sent 
out. I have said no such thing. I reiterated what I have often stated and which has been 
my offer to the students even when I met them in Dispur. That 1971 would be not the cut- 
off point but a starting point and thereafter we could peacefully discuss what else could 
be done. That has been my consistent stand and the base for the talks that have been held. 
I have pointed out to the students and in some of my meetings the great difficulty of moving 
large populations. Perhaps, you have read what has recently happened in an African country. 
So I asked where will we put these people ? One cannot just announce—‘I am going to 
send these people out.’ Where will they go? Which State in India will accept them, which 
country outside India will accept them? This is the question which I posed to the students 
and at that time they agreed with me that it is a major human problem. I also said that 
those children who are born here, and I think our Constitution declares that those who are 
born after 1950 (since the Constitution was made) are Indian citizens and we cannot send 
them out. I have said nothing beyond that—what I have been consistently saying either in 
the House to the agitators or anybody else. But it is true that the minorities, and they are 
not only religious minorities, there are also linguistic minorities, there are Nepalese, there 
are the tea garden labourers and above all the plains tribals. All these people were greatly 
frightened not just now after the massacre but throughout these years, and their fears have 
been increasing. The plains tribals have been coming to see me off and on for the last two 
years to say-for God’s sake take us out of Assam, make us a separate State, give us Union 
Territory, do anything you like, but please do not leave us with these people. This is the 
atmosphere that has been growing. 


Just now, my friend spoke about refugees who have gone to West Bengal. Yesterday | 
had a long telegram from the Chief Minister of Arunachal. Nepalese, tea labour and others 
have crossed over to Arunachal, so he requests our help to sort out this problem and see 
how to look after them. He is concerned because he does not have the facilities. 


There is much debate on the calling of the elections, I do not want to go into this matter 
now. It has been adequately replied to. I shall only remind hon. Members opposite that 
violence was growing in Assam even before the elections. Year by year, it was growing. 
There were many murders. There were threats to officials who went from other parts. There 
was sabotage. A large number of people who belong to different religions and different 


‘cae 
7८00: कट 
RO REIN 


20220 22%: 222 


हद RAS 7725 रे 


oe Ray Serena nasa ompR Ce eT 
QO 2:55 ROR REN BR eae 
2202 RR ००२०० SOS PNR OR CS SIG Sat Pah 


= 2052: 
Po 


ethnic groups felt threatened. What is equally serious is that the agitators are trying to 
inculcate such feelings in their neighbouring States also. These are all border States and 
~you can realize how dangerous the security position of India can be if such attitudes 
pefmeats into these other States, the tribals States, namely that only local people can stay 
and everybody else would go out ? Actually one of the issues the plains tribals raised was 
‘Who are the Assamese ? We are the original people who lived here. They have come 
from outside.” These are not my words. These are their—‘‘They have come from outside 
and pushed us in the jungle and in the hills.” Of course, this is true of all Adivasis and 
not only in Assam, the adivasis are the original inhabitants of this country. 


Even now, officials are not allowed to work. It is not true to say that no Assamese 
wanted to cooperate in the elections or before. I know many who did cooperate. But they 
have to think of their children and their families. When they were threatened, ‘if you do 
this, well, you will not escape and your family will not escape’, you know, normal persons 
will think ten times before they give co-operation or go to cast their votes. Unfortunately, 
this has sometimes happened in other parts of India also. Sometimes people who are 
considered weak like the Hanyans, I have seen with my own eyes that because some voted, 
they were beaten up. Now, if this sort of thing takes place, it is not a fair judgment on 
what the Assamese wanted to do. | 


I know that the Assamese people are greatly agitated. My friend here has said something 
which seems to have offended. I am sure he did not mean to offend anybody. He was talking 
to me yesterday in the plane. How full his mind was and his heart of the tragic situation 
in his State. But before elections, names were being struck off without verification. 


Now, we have offered tribunals. We have offered several suggestions to find some way 
out-it may be not totally satisfactory. In such a situation, you cannot satisfy everybody. 
But let us try and find a way which is least disruptive of Assam and least harmful to the 
Assamese or to any of the others concerned. But because the agitators did not want their 
officers to cooperate with us, even at that stage the steps which could have been taken at 
the border could not be pursued. But all that was neglected and could not be done. From 
the Centre, we tried our best. But we have to depend on local officials. If local officials 
do not cooperate with the Centre, then work cannot be done. 


It was the same with development. When I met the students and others in Dispur, they 
complained of insufficient development. It 1s true that Assam, other hill areas in the U.P. 
and clsewhere are more economically backward because of lack of communications and 
various reasons. We have to make up for lost time. Immediately, I spcke to vanous public 
sector people. I spoke to our Finance Minister and to private industrialists that even if it 
caused some loss, they should put up something in Assam. Some people agreed. But then, 
the violence started and the agitators tried to stop the oil. So the industrialists said, “How 
can we put up an industry in Assam ? Tomorrow, they may bur the factory; they may tell 
the workers, don’t work or don’t allow goods to come out. How can we?” So, what 
development could have been taken up was also hampered. 


As we know, the Voters’ List now used in the 1978 list when Members from Assam 
were elected either to this House or that House. They did not complain in 1978 that they 


22८ ८7221 ८::7:22/20/7:277:222222:2 ८2222: 272. te 22222 22:20 LLM LIE: 
2222: 22.72 Rs LOL 2222८ 

2225 SII LEE UP DG gral Grae 

ee AR PI SEP VR PPR COP LE I ELLE POLL LE LO EEL LOL iho oe OD 


wen von 


227 272 72:72 RNC 2700: 
eee ni eee ete to Te ee ae १ 
Ss bat Pas 
:02222%2 < 
Ee, 

2 


EPS 
on 
” * 
5 (५ (फिर हा 
Psi acne Gi 1 


ASAD N 
Ps 


Ros SE ae 57277: 20:00 :07 namie gant apenas ee 2222: es ras Ries nee SORES pS Rees 
22 2:४2 ८7720: ८0:777:7%52:2710:5%:20:22 7577: :2272700:::::2% 
oe, 


Sa 
52785 
720: 


eee 


825५ 
1४22 
Rees 
NOR 


Zoe 
ee 
= 


NER 
७०.२2: ५ 222 ate 
oe 


SEITE 


: रद 
centr 
RON 

ws Ree om 


ee 
८: 
~ 


Ese 


45 
REN 
22228 
रा 


eS 
ee 
SS 


would not be elected because the list is incorrect. My colleague, Shri Mukherjee has 
explained how the decision to have the elections was taken. I do not want to go into the 
points that have been raised. 


2 मंद a 2 मं ak a fc of 


Well, he has said it publicly.* This matter was raised by Shri Vajpayee when we met 
the leaders of the Opposition in another connection. At that time, as I was replying, some 
representatives of other Opposition parties confirmed what we have said. 


42k मर af ae ak af a ae 


The elections were held to uphold our Constitution. It was a constitutional obligation. 
In the present situation, as my friend there has said, all sections have suffered. Some may 
have suffered more and some a little less. All have suffered. And more than that it is the 
State which has suffered. This is the attitude which is alienating the people from the State. 
Assam was a big State. It could have stayed a big State. But somehow, one hy one, people 
wanted to separate and a situation was created in which we had to come to some 
understanding with these different groups. 


Now, another point I made at my meetings and at the meeting where I said Khuda 
Hafiz, that I regard all the people, especially young people, in Assam as my children. Even 
those who are angry with me, even those who are following a path with which I do not 
agree and which I consider 1s wrong, I consider them my children and therefore, I cannot 
disown them or say that we shall have nothing to do with them. We must continue to find 
a way. At every meeting, whatever its composition, I made the point that we must continue 
to try and bring them around to peaceful talks and try to create an atmosphere in which 
all can meet. 


Even on the question of foreigners, I had told them that it can be solved, if they remain 
peaceful and do not raise a hue and cry. When such a hue and cry was raised, immediately, 
Bangladesh said, “We will not take back even the post-1971 people.” If this matter had 
been dealt with in a cool and collected manner, maybe we could have found a way out. In 
all our talks with them, we have assured them that we are deeply concerned about the 
preservation of their culture, their identity and how to expedite development in the region. 


To come back to the elections, it 1s the democratic right of all citizens to be allowed to 
vote. We did not stop voters there, others stopped them. Somebody has remarked that the 
elections were held at gun-point. The elections were not held at gun-point to ask people 
to vote. The guns were pointed at the people who were coming to vote by those who did 
not want them to do so. Some of the Opposition people there and some of the agitators 
were the ones who were trying to do things at gun-point. We did no such thing. But 
unfortunately there were some groups, whatever their motivations, who threatened and 
finally this led to violence on this tragic scale. 


* Replying to some hon. Members’ remarks : “Mr. Mukherjee has not spoken here. It might be in the other House.” 


29% रा o 702 aes CRO a Se AD ye 20:27 ane Tecate We RTE 
५5०2 ee 272 ४ SS es 22:22 20227 2002: seh 20१४ 02270: 2 


721 


The question is : can any group anywhere in India, no matter what their grievances, 
hold the country to ransom ? Can any group say, “Our demands have not been fulfilled 
and because you are not fulfilling our demands we will not allow you to have the elections 
or we will not allow you to do something else”-there are plenty.of demands; every group 
has a demand; many of them are justified demands but we cannot fulfil them because of 
lack of resources or for some reason. The country will go to bits. If we cannot hold together, 
we Cannot meet the real challenges. But for the atmosphere of terror, many more Assamese 
as well as others would have voted and co operated in every way. 


Another question which arises—I do not know what Shri Atal Bihari Vajpayee and others 
have said about it. Have they condemned the violence that 1s taking place ? 


He ae और He of a 3 ak 


Never mind, I did not take your name or anybody’s name*. I am expressing the general 
feeling there. Wherever I went, people mentioned this. How is it that those who support 
the agitation do not condemn the violence. I have myself asked some opposition people at 
a much earlier period before there was any question of elections. Then they claimed that 
there was no violence. But we had the list of the people killed. At that time, they were 
mostly officials. I did not get a reply at that time either. That was at least a year ago. 


But today, I do not want to dwell on all these matters because I feel that we must avoid 
all types of acrimony. The first consideration is the safety of all those who are menaced. 
We must ensure that relief is adequate and reaches all affected people. 


Why did the tribals react ? Their areas are rather cut off and the agitators came and 
broke the bridges. So, whatever little did trickle through, would take even more time to 
reach them. The bridges were broken, it is true. They should be repaired. Some of them 
have been quickly repaired, for people to be able to get across. 


We must help to rehabilitate those who have lost their all. We must express our 
sympathy for them and the agony of our hearts for the parents whose children have died, 
for the children whose parents have died and those who have lost all their worldly 


possessions. We must co-operate in creating an atmosphere more conducive to harmony 
and peace. | 


Many new communal organisations have cropped up. I do not want to mention names. 
But I do put it to the House that : Can these strengthen either the majority community or 
our various minority communities ? They can only aggravate an extremely delicate and 
difficult situation. These are some of the matters which we have to consider immediately. 


I am sorry that some people have attributed motives that we wanted to win the elections. 
Naturally, every political party wants to win elections. It is something natural. But I have 


* Replying to Shri Atal Bihari Vajpayee who intervened and quoted from the report which said that in the speeches 
at a meeting at Gauhati Judges’ Maidan, the leaders appealed to the people of Assam to shun violence and continue 
with their non-violent movement and non-cooperation with the Government. He also suggested that the Prime 
Minister could call for a report from the Government of Assam about his speeches. 


722 


Boson 
pres 


always said that is not the most important thing. But the important thing is how the elections 
are fought, the important thing is that the country is higher than any party. The country is 
higher than any movement also or any of us here. This is what I say. 


So let us try to strengthen this spirit of unity and nationalism. Those who have struggled 
for freedom can understand when there is a danger to freedom when there is a danger to 
unity. The freedom movement bound us together. Now the dangers are no less and we 
need the same spirit to hold us together. And we know how quickly it can be damaged 
and weakened. 


I spoke about nationalism. I should like to make it clear that I am not referring to any 
chauvinistic or narrow-minded nationalism but one that can keep us together, that can 
strengthen different communities, groups, sections of people who live in India and take us 
on to an internationalism where we can together solve national as well as international 
problems. 


I do hope that this House will look at these points and create an atmosphere of co- 
operation. 


723 


बा 5. 


Sarkaria Commission‘ 


Sir, the Government have been considering for some time past the need for review of 
the existing arrangements between the Centre and the States. While keeping in view the 
social and economic developments that have taken place over the years, such a review 
will take into account the importance of the unity and integrity of the country for promoting 
the welfare of the people. The Government have accordingly decided to set up a 
Commission under the Chairmanship of Shri R.S. Sarkaria, retired Judge of the Supreme 
Court of India to go into these matters. 


The Commission will examine the working of the arrangements between the Centre 
and the States and recommend such changes in the said arrangements as may be appropriate 
within the present Constitutional framework. 


a a a ae और मर He aK मर 


Sir, this 1s a matter, as one hon. Member has pointed out, which has been engaging 
our attention for a very long time. Various States have been raising this issue. **In fact, 
we took the decision sometime ago but, as you know. I don’t like making announcement 
when there is any agitation in one place or another. If the announcement has been delayed, 
it is purely on account of various agitations. Since there was some relative calm just now 
and also because the Rajya Sabha is adjourning, that was the reason for urgency. Otherwise 
we were planning to do it in the Lok Sabha a little later. 


* Making a Statement regarding setting up of a Commission on Centre-State relations, R.S. Deb, 24 March 1983, 
cc. 291, 300-02. 


** Responding to the questions asked/clarifications sought by Members. Shri Dinesh Goswami sought clarification 
on whether the proposed Commission would be one-man Commission or there would be more members. He also 
wanted to know whether pending the report of the Commission, the Government would have an Inter-State Council 
(under article 263) as proposed in 1967 by a Committee headed by Mr. Setalvad. 

Shri P. Ramamurti inter-alia wanted to know whether the proposed Commission would be competent to suggest 
Constitutional Amendments. 


Shri L.K. Advani inter-alia wanted to know whether instead of the proposed Commissiun, the possibility of setting 
up the Inter-State Council under article 263 was examined. Secondly, what were to be the terms of reference of the 
Commission? Shri Era Sezhiyan appreciated the move to make an enquiry into the relationship between the Centre 
and the States. Taking the States as equal partners in the Indian federal set up, he requested to make the terms of 
reference comprehensive so that a purposeful study would be made which would go a long way in the healthy 
functioning of the federal structure in this country. 


Shri A.G. Kulkarni inquired whether the Commission would deal with inter-state problems and whether it would 
also deal with financial aspects. 


22272 sen :7722:22:22:2 ४2222 he: :/ 22277 प्रकार ॥ दि: 1 
Patty Pah a 22227 ad ८222 rtd 

५5225 22222 ES 

SL 22::7:7:222.... BES 22222: % ६2222 

LEI OE EET IEA, 22222: 2242: 


724 


PSE eA NN REN ORCS SD 


Pet 


SERRE 


ee 


SSR CCN 72522 


As I have said, the decision has nothing to do with any specific demand but with the 
general problem as it has been raised over the last few years. I should like to make it clear, 
Sir, that wherever I have spoken about a strong Centre, and I repeat that I am in favour of 
a strong Centre. I have also said that there cannot be strong Centre without strong States. 
I have also said that there cannot be strong States without a strong Centre. We are 
interdependent and the States are interdependent . What is the Centre ? We are completely 
dependent on the States. All programmes are in the hands of the States. Whether it is 
agriculture, industry, health or education, all the implementation is with the States. 


So, if the States are not effective, the Centre becomes helpless in that matter. We have 
never believed in weak States or weak Governments. On the contrary, we want stable and 
strong States but they should also see the value of having a Centre which is strong enough 
to help them in times of need. Every State now comes up with demands either there is 
drought or some other catastrophe—and they want help. The Centre should be capable of 
helping them. This is also a very important aspect, the defence of the country’s interests 
abroad and defence of the country’s borders. 


I should like to thank all hon. Members for their remarks and the support they have 
given to my Statement about the unity and integrity of India. I am sure, Sir, that all of us 
agree that that is of paramount importance today. Any question, whether it is at the Centre 
or at the State level, this aspect must be kept in mind in every such discussion or review. 
If the country is not united and integrated, then neither the Centre nor the States can be 
strong or capable of solving the problems of their people. 


The States will certainly be free. The whole point of the review is that States should 
put their point of view before the Commission. So, they will be free to express whatever 
they want to say. But, Sir, I don’t think that article 263 is relevant to this particular matter. 
It is with regard to inter-State disputes and so on and it is intended for these purposes. 


One hon. Member said something about resources. Now all the States are free to raise 
resources. Our complaint is that they do not use that power to raise resources within their 


States. 


So far as the financial aspect is concerned, I want to remind hon. Members that in 
various speeches over the years, not just in the last two years but even long before that, I 
have been making the same points about unity and integrity as well as about my willingness 
to look into any genuine problem of the States and also to take any step which should be 
required for that. As regards finances, this point will also be put before the Commission. 
We are only worried, and we feel we should be careful, that our finances should be used 
in such a way as does not damage our overall economy. That is our major consideration 
in this matter. The Commission is free to take the advice of experts. 


One hon. Member mentioned that the States have growing responsibilities and limited 
resources. But I am sure he will concede that the Centre 1s in exactly the same position. 
The burden is growing, the demands are growing, but the resources are not keeping pace 
with them, and some States have not helped out to the extent to which they could have if 


they had made a real effort. 


725 


Ming: 


The terms of reference will have still to be decided in consultation with the Commission. 
I was a little astonished to hear what my friend opposite said about the Constitution. We 
had very eminent people going into the drawing up of the Constitution and ultimately it 
was accepted by the Constituent Assembly made for the purpose, and by the entire people 
of India. The Constitution has been amended when we have found there is need for it; and 
that provision is within the Constitution itself. That is why we have made it clear that 
whatever the Commission does should be within the framework of the Constitution. Some 
of the details have to be discussed. 


I think I have answered all the points. 


ran 


726 


Situation in Punjab and Haryana* 


Sir, this discussion is on a grave and serious matter, one which has brought shame to 
India, one which is contrary to all the ideals for which we have fought, for which we have 
stood and which we put before the world. This debate, I thought, was meant to find a way 
out of this sad situation, to find a way in which we can lift it above party politics, to bring 
it to a national level, to try and heal the wounds that have been inflicted, to offer sympathy 
to the families of those who have died, to those who have suffered humiliation of any 
kind, to those who feel that their religion has been insulted. Our country is one which is 
not very different from other countries so far as problems go, but it is unique in one thing 
and that is its spirit of tolerance. It is unique in this that people of all religions or most 
people of all religions respect the other religions. The Hindus go to dargas; they visit well- 
known churches; they go to gurudwaras. And I know Muslims also go; as do Chirtians. I 
have seen this myself in Tirupati people of all religions coming for different functions. 
This is a scene which will not be found anywhere outside India. I think that this is not so 
merely as an ideal, but because the Indian people have realised that with our great diversity, 
because we have so many religions, so many castes, so many regional customs, languages, 
and so on, such tolerance is the only threat that can bind all of us together, that can give 
us the unity, which will give us the strength to solve our problem, to maintain our freedom. 
I thought this was the purpose of this debate. Because I have been ॥ the other House and 
the debate started at exactly the same time, I could not come here earlier. I was sorry to 
learn that many of our friends opposite took this opportunity, just like any other opportunity, 
to put the blame on the Congress Party. As I said in the other Home, so far as I am 
concerned, I have been the but of criticism, of beatings, of all kinds of physical, mental 
and other kinds of assaults since I was a small child—many of those who attack us now 
were not born then—but that makes no difference. The point I am making is I am used to 
it and this does not bother me, but it does bother we, it does worry me, that even in times 
of great emergency and challenges before the country today, people ignore the gravity of 
the situation, they do not see the dangers, which are within us, which are around us. 


One of the criticisms most often made is why I announced our acceptance of the 
religious demands in the Bangla Sahib Gurudwara. There is nothing devious about it. I 
had already said what I could accept to the Sants when they came to meet me here. 
Therefore, when I was asked in the Gurudwara, “What have you done about these 


* Participating in a discussion on the Statement made by the Minister of State in the Ministry of Home Affairs. Shri 
P. Venkatasubhaiah regarding the situation in Punjab:and Haryana. R.S. Deb., 28 February, 1984, cc. 420-28. 


727 


demands?” There was nothing wrong in my telling truth. I was not making any new 
announcement. It was only what I had already told the Sants in the course of our 
conversation here in Parliament House, Room No. 9, in—I think—1981. 


" The second complaint is that it is either I personally, or the Congress which wants to 
delay a solution. I should have thought that anybody who stops to think even for a brief 
moment, would realise that 1t was not in the interest of the ruling party to have chaos and 
trouble. It can only be to the advantage of the Opposition, of those who want to weaken 
the Government. It can never be ॥ the interest of the Government to have division of any 
kind. Sir, there has not been any delay in that sense. If there was delay, then it took place 
much earlier. There demands are not new demands, so far as I know. When the Akali Dal 
formed the Government for three whole years in Punjab, when they were members of the 
Central Government for those years they had their allies in the Governments of the 
surrounding States, for three years was that too short a time to take up this matter settle 
it? And if that was short, how then do these two years become a very long tme? Why 
were these issues not raised at that tme? There would have been no problem and we, as 
the Opposition, would certainly not have opposed anything that was decided among all 
concerned. I am not going into the details of the demands because my colleague has already 
read out a lengthy statement. When the Opposition says that we are delaying, what 1 means 
is that because of the agitation, we must accept these demands. I should like to know from 
the Opposition; Is it their case that every time there is an agitation with violence and killing, 
we Should accept whatever they want ? You are giving sanctity to all demands. But because 
there is agitation in one part, can you ignore the interests of any other State which is 
concerned? I do not condone what has happened in Haryana. I do not condone what has 
happened in Punjab. Whatever there is killing, wherever there is violence, wherever the 
self-respect of any individual 1s attacked, we condemn it in the strongest possible terms. 
We have always done so and we shall continue to do so. We do so now. My party has 
stood for communal harmony since its very inception. In fact, many of the attacks on us 
have taken place because we did not take the easier path of populanty, of agreeing to things 
which we thought were wrong. One of these was our stand on the minorities. I should like 
to remind the House that the minorities are not the same in every State. There are places 
where the Hindus are in a majority and the Muslims are in a minority, and there are places 
where the Christians are in a minority and there are places where the Sikhs are in a minority. 
But there are also places where the Muslims are in a majority, where the Sikhs are in a 
majority, and there are districts where the Christians are in a majority. So, I am for whoever 
is weaker, whoever is in greater need of help and whose voice cannot be heard, I am for 
helping that person. If India 15 the butt of attack in the outside world, it is because we 
raise our voice not only for ourselves, not only for our own needs, but also for the needs 
of other smaller and weaker countnes. (/nterruptions) 


So, we have not delayed. Whatever our answer was to the demands, we have given 
from the very beginning. First, there were religious demands. When we broadly accepted 
them, I thought that the whole thing was over. We got up and I was saying “Namaskar”, 
because I had spent more than 2 '/, hours and was going to another function. Then I was 


ie Anion 


told that these were not the real demands, that the real demand was the water dispute. I 
said, “Well, why did you not take it up before, we could then have spent some time 
discussing it?” “I cannot sit now. We can discuss it at some other later point of time”. 
When it was discussed later, frankly,—I should like to take the House into confidence—I 
was not happy on going back on an award which I had given, which was the second award. 
It was not the first one. Before that there had been another similar agreement and there 
were two awards. I felt, it looked rather silly to keep on giving awards which are 
disregarded. But, merely in order to come to a conciliatory and amicable agreement, I 
agreed. “If you feel strongly, we can go into it again.” J shall not enter into details. But, 
on that particular issue also, the Akali stand differed from time to time. The demands also 
concerned other States. Then the Akalis said that they need not be included and so on. 
You probably know, even with regard to the religious demands, one which we accepted 
was later withdrawn. But because the river waters are of concern not merely to one State, 
it is not in my power to say that this should be the subject of an award, especially when 
the previous awards were being completely ignored. So, we offered to refer to a tribunal. 


Then came the question of territory. On territory also, there have been differences. There 
was the Shah Commission which gave Chandigarh to Haryana. Then the matter came to 
me. I changed it and said that Punjab could have Chandigarh, but Abohar and Fazilka should 
2९0 to Haryana, and this was agreed to by the then leadership of the Akali Dal, whether 
they were named Akali Dal at that time. I do not know because these parties keep changing 
names all] the time and it is very confusing for us on this side. But they agreed. I am told 
by other people living in Punjab, Hindus and Sikhs, that not only did they agree, but they 
celebrated the event as a victory. Nevertheless, after some time, the issue was reopened. 
this is my problem. What I said to the opposition parties was that any agreement arrived 
at has to be lasting, it must take into cognizance the interests of the other States involved. 
We cannot do something for one State and let the other State suffer. If the States can come 
to an agreement by themselves, that would'be the best. If they cannot, then let the whole 
territorial dispute go to another tribunal or whatever name you want to gave it, but to some 
authority whose decision will be accepted. So, the limited point remained that we should 
give Chandigarh now and let the other areas be decided later. Frankly, Sir, I felt that this 
was not fair to the other State; setting one part but leaving the other open. I thought that 
this decision should be taken together. 


In this period, we have not sat quietly. We have had bilateral talks. We have had tripartite 
talks. We have had a lot of people coming as mediators, going back and forth to different 
people, bringing messages, sometimes a little contradictory, changing their stand. In all 
this time. Article 25 was not mentioned at all. Personal law was never mentioned. It was 
never mentioned in front of the tripartite meeting or anywhere else. It was mentioned to 
me by an individual who came to see me some months ago. He said that he was very 
close to the Akali leadership. I have no way of knowing whether he is or not. When he 
mentioned it frankly, Sir, I did not know what the article was. I said to him quite frankly 
that I was not a lawyer and that I did not know the exact words of the article. But if he 
thought that that would solve the problem, then I would have our lawyers look into it. But 


FORINT SRO 00%: ४::८:::४:::८:८ SES 272 alates ae POP VIR ERO PSNR Dat a ५५५ ee arene Oe 
ae pee Seo SOE TO Ge eRe Scene 2 22035 ANON en ०४२४०८४०८ EN 
Pet OOD SO oc 7८८ roar! 23 ६ 

ree at mae fone) i oN 

27775: 200:::25 ४ 


in 
20.22: oy x : ae > | 500: cote nd ar ARS eben 272 Boy ee: 
EEE RR SAS aera NENT an RA CASS Rn Re DSN i SPUN ON SLR ay Si Oe SSS 


729 


then it was not raised in any meeting. Just now, the opposition leaders themselves mentioned 
that it was not mentioned before them at the tripartite meeting. Suddenly, it becomes the 
Most important thing, overriding all the other issues. An hon. Member has just sent a note 
to me drawing attention to a fact which—nobody here has mentioned—saying that the 
explanation to Article 25, by which the Sikhs were included amongst the Hindus, came as 
a result of an agreement between Sardar Tara Singh and Sardar Patel because Sikhs wanted 
the same concessions for their depressed classes as the Scheduled Castes amongst the 
Hindus. It was then that the explanation was added and this is the part of the article to 
which the Sikhs or rather the Akalis are themselves a party. It seems to me to be a very 
strange situation. Perhaps you can understand it. But I do not understand it and it does 
seem as if there are some forces which do not want an agreement. An hon. Member said 
that we should meet the Akalis. We have met them many times. Whether we meet them 
again or not is not the point. The point is: Do they want a solution? Or are there some 
forces, whether they are extremists or who they are I do not know, who are preventing 
them from coming to an understanding. It is true that on several occasions, it seemed that 
we were on the brink of an agreement. But it did not happen. The opposition cannot put 
the blame on us. I am a consistent person. My philosophy, by policy, was made in my 
childhood and girlhood and I have found no reason to change it. As the world changes, 
one acquires greater scientific knowledge, one acquires new methods and one thinks new 
thoughts. But the basic principles do not change. I have always stuck to them. Here there 
is no basic principle involved. If there is, it is that the interests of all concerned should be 
kept in mind. This is the basic principle so far as I am concerned. As I said, we want a 
solution to be enduring and amicable. There must be some surety that people will not go 
back on it. You will remember, Sir, that in the Anadpur Sahib Resolution, there are opinions 
which, as my colleague has said, no Government and, I think, no people can accept because 
they go against the very concept of the unity and integrity of the country. The Opposition 
leaders have told us, “Now, they have changed their mind.” I said, “Will they not re-open 
it after some time?” They were not able to give an answer to that. They said, it may be 
after some years. Sir, I may not be here in the House or the world after some years. Many 
of us may not be here either in Parliament or in the world. But India will be here. Can we 
do something now which will be harmful to India in future ? We cannot think only in 
terms of five years or ten years. We have to think of India in terms of hundreds of years. 
What people have done in the past is shaping us today. And what we are going to do will 
shape India’s future. 


Therefore, Sir, 1 welcome this debate, I do not know whether there was an argument 
here as we had in the other House. But the only reason for putting it off was not to hide 
anything, not to avoid any discussion but because a bandh had been declared in Delhi and 
the burning of the Constitution was declared by the Akali Dal. We felt that if anybody 
said any word which could be misconstrued, it might become a reason for a flare up and 
further killings. This is what we wanted to avoid. That is why we wanted to postpone this 
discussion for a few days. The bandh, I am glad, has passed off peacefully. But I am sorry 
to say that some of the posters that were brought out were extremely provocative, and it 
is a tribute to the other community that it did not get provoked. 


730 


22 on RAE A ie Hanan rs ORAS ERAS ORD eee PON 7:77: 
Pa PE doll lela of ‘te 
अप 5 १ 
:202०१००४३ ३४०) है 
कब Ra ee ata ie न ORONO 2 00072: 7:27 07770 
BSS Saha ia WR be hs Se PO ER ० PE en AI RSL * ०] 


. 
. 
, 
x 
ee 
*S 
vd 
. 
ee 
प्र 
बिग 
SA 
3 
x 
= 
a, 
०५ 
a 
> 
zm 
ba, 
x 
re 
2 > 
"0०० 
जो बा 
ts १2 
दि 
. ia 
Pata 
be 
wn 
ian 
: 
xe 
yt! 
Pe 
Kons 
254 
Bee on 
2 
ss x 


६4९ 
५५22८ 
2८ 


Once more I should like to express my deep sympathy to the families of all those who 
have died, regardless of their religion and regardless of the reason for which they were 
killed. And I should, like to make a sincere appeal to this House that our democracy cannot 
survive unless we agree that there are some matters which are above elections, which are 
above party politics. There are some matters on which we must sit together. I had no reason 
to involve the Opposition parties in our talks. I don’t think it helped me, quite frankly. 
But I involved them because I thought that it is a national issue and they should be involved. 


Previously, there have been times when the whole of North India was in the hands of 
the Opposition parties when we were at the Centre. There was even a time, you will 


remember, Sir, I had a minority Government here in Parliament. But we never had this 


kind of acrimony, we never had this kind of bitterness. The Opposition parties fought us, 
we fought them in elections. They won sometimes : we won sometimes. They had their 
State problems. They came and discussed them. We always could sit together in a friendly 
way, and I could discuss national and international problems with them. Unfortunately, 
today, I do not know why the Opposition has taken a stand that they feel that this is no 
longer possible. So, although we meet and we talk, it is a superficial meeting. It 1s not a 
meeting where we feel that we are both attempting to solve a common problem. This 18 
the need of India today. On this issue of Punjab and Haryana and on many other such 
issues we could and should rise above any other small interest and think only of the sort 
of India which we must together build and which we want so that our people keep their 
faith in our system. People will want to strengthen only that system which they believe is 
delivering the goods, and which will make the sort of India which is in their largest interest. 
Thank you, Sir. 


731 


eee 
LE LRT ae Teh बी 2२००१ pe 
es ope > 5 ‘ Bey eet ten eee ” 
FL AP TE URE AAR A kt Sea ae) ies Pt osha hs i of Pw ०३ 7. 7 
28:200808:20%2:260322 ea Binge at aR AR a San Be ra Sek RL 72222: 0:22 07: 
“J ” we fa a; 


zi 
ets 5 
५५६ 


ae 
oe 
Ree 


Punjab Problem* 


I thought that in this debate in view of the seriousness of the subject and the gravity 
of the situation, our hon. friends opposite would refrain from slander and false accusations. 
I thought that prejudice would not colour their remarks. Obviously I am not painting 
everyone with the same brush. But it is a fact that some people have made accusations 
and these accusations are not new ones. They have been answered—some on the floor of 
the House and some on other occasions. But the whole purpose of this debate—with 
apologies to some speakers—seems now to be and this we see outside the House also, for 
an effort to shift the focus from the essentials to purely subsidiary issues with a view to 
create confusion in the thinking of the people. | 


Much has been said by some speakers about the elections. Sir, we are not obsessed 
with the elections. Unfortunately, the Opposition Parties and Groups and, even the two 
Members—I do not know whether it is called a Group or something other than a Group— 
are obsessed. To accuse me and the Government of allowing the crisis to build up merely 
for electoral advantage is a compatible argument which needs no response. 


-,.. he deafening silence is not in the White Paper; deafening silence was maintained 
by those, who today assume the role of custodians of the interests of Sikh community. 
Certain remarks which I heard—I was not in the House but I was listening to every speech 
from my room—were far from responsible. Shri Indrajit Gupta just now said that we 
regarded the Akalis as the only representatives of the Sikhs. Sir, you yourself can think 
whether there is any basis in this. In the 1980 elections, when the Akali Dal was 1n power 
in the Punjab, who won the elections ? The Congress Party won the elections. Our Hindu 
and Sikh members won the elections. The Sikhs and Hindus voted for the Congress. How 
can we say that only the Akali Dal represents the Sikhs ? 


aK 7K 3k eK और mH a ae 


We dealt with them, and we met all the other Sikhs**, I personally met different sections 
of Sikhs. Several Sikhs and several Hindus organisations from Haryana and from Punjab 
came to see me. The larger number belonged to my party. But some came from other parties. 
I do not know whether any Communist Sikhs came or not. But, I did have talks with the 


* Participating in a discussion on a Motion regarding the White Paper on Punjab Agitation, L.S. Deb., 25 July 1984, 
cc. 282-308. 
** Responding to Shri Indrajit Gupta’s observation, ‘Because you only speak to them and you deal only with them.” 


732 


Marxist Sikhs leader who was very close to the Akalis and who maintained that they were 
the voice of the Sikhs. 


So, let us not get side tracked by these matters. The Congress has always fought 
communalism of every kind. I am on record in this House if you will look back to the 
papers from 1966 onwards you will read how I have spoken against communalists; how I 
still am against any type of communalism, any type of extremism. Today, communalism 
has a new dimension and this is called fundamentalism. Even those countries where 
fundamentalism is supposed to have started are now worried about it and are trying to see 
how they can contain it because they are discovering the ill effects it could have there, 
but, in our country, we have to fight it all the harder because our society is far more 
vulnerable. This fundamentalism, let me make clear, is not in any one community. I am 
not referring only to Sikh fundamentalism but also to Hindu fundamentalism, to Muslim 
fundamentalism and even to Christian fundamentalism. Every religion feels that it has to 
take an extreme view. Sikhs are not considered real Sikhs because they don’t belong to 
the Akali Dal. What do the Muslims say ? That those Muslims who are in the Congress or 
Communist are not real Muslims, because they do not belong to the Muslim League or to 
some other such organisation. This is what our party is suffering from because we have 
kept to our ideal of secularism, because we have kept to certain wider national goals and 
have not confined ourselves to any type of narrow thinking. We shall continue to fight 
any type of narrowness of thought, narrowness in the sphere of religion or in any other 
area. That is the basic Indian tradition. The Congress fought imperialism and today 1t fights 
neo-colonialism. It is no use making snide remarks because we do not name the countries 
or people. I do not name groups and I do not name any of you. I do not usually name 
anybody whether they are abusing me or whether they are praising me. Because the member 
spoke just now, I took his name. I do not think, anybody can challenge our record on this. 
The Defence Chief has gone to America or a minister went to Pakistan because we try to 
find an area of cooperation, we try to increase that area—this has been the basis of our 
foreign policy from the beginning. This does not mean we don’t know what those people 
are doing. It does not mean that we don’t tell them that we know what they are doing. 


मैप > मर a ae a मंद ae मं 


We not only ‘should’* but we have I have been told that people outside have noticed 
and remarked that there is one person who has said the same thing in different world 
capitals. I do not tailor my statement to suit the views of the particular country in which I 
happened to be. 


a मर मेष ae ae मर a a a 


I have said what has been internationally acknowledged as India’s policy.** Today we 
continue this fight. In fact, some of our problems have arisen because we are pursuing 
this fight. The hon. Member opposite and others should be aware of this fact. And with 


* Shri Indrajit Gupta remarked, “Should”. 
** Responding to Shri Krishna Chandra Halder’s remark, “You are praising yourself?” 


(०६ mee, RN IG A 2002९ 
Sr Sores SS, 
SOROS 


oe aes 20५ 
BE 


=” 


ane 


=e 2 
xR 
“०1८०2 55 
SR orem 


ES 
3 


< 
See 
pope 


ae 
9222 


5 
= 
Benn 


PERERA 

ce secs BES 

eine dunce: 
SER 


all our faults—being human we have many faults—and we do not hide our faults. Naturally 
we do not want to parade them although India does seem to parade its deficiencies and its 
shorfages and its poverty—everything far more than any other country does. But 
neverthelcss we have taken the country forward in every possible direction. When I say 
‘we’ I am not referring to myself. I am not referring to this Parliament. I am referring to 
the Indian people. It is the Indian farmer, the Indian worker, the Indian scientist and Indian 
technologist who have increased our productivity. It is the Indian Army which has defended 
our borders against foreign aggression. So, when I say ‘we’ I mean all these people. 
Sometimes the opposition forgets this. They want to believe everything that those against 
us say rather than what the government says. 


We are not talking on behalf of government does matter because it is the government 
which gives the direction. We do not swing from side to side like some people and some 
countries. We have set ourselves a steady course, the most difficult course of combining 
the best of the old with what we consider the best of the modern and in the face of the 
most tremendous odds and obstacles of every kind; to which I might add some of the hon. 
friends opposite sometimes contribute. We have not wavered. India has spoken and does 
speak not only for our people but also for the countless millions, the majority of the world’s 
population and we have been willing to stop aside in order to help others. 


Now, Sir, Professor Chakraborty, while concluding his speech yesterday said that the 
Congress having ruled the country for so many years forgetting that the three years in 
between were ruled by others—therefore for it was the Congress’s duty to keep the unity 
of the country. Now, this seems to imply that national unity is a party issue. Is that what 
he 18 trying to say ? This is the manner in which it was projected. This 15 how it came out. 


मर भर मै मै ok ae a he ok 


National unity is a national issue and it is the responsibility of all political parties and 
all Indian citizens. The impression that I got when I heard the hon. Member’s speech was 
that perhaps other parties can be free to play with fire but run away when the blaze gets 
too hot. So, for me and for my party, national unity and integrity are our supreme objectives 
and nothing can be allowed to come in the way of that, neither elections nor anything else. 
What is happening in Punjab was not simply a story of cruelty or merciless violence against 
innocent people. It was a concerted attempt by a combination of internal and external forces 
to encourage divisive forces and if possible, to divide the country. This was the challenge 
before us. Another hon. Member who spoke before lunch, who said that although the army 
had not been sent to other places where there was violence there why the army action in 
Punjab. The situation in Punjab is an entirely different one although there are links with 
‘what has happened in other border States. 


Now, the question of the foreign hand is also mentioned. This was brought up earlier 
by several Members. We are asked for evidence we are asked to name the countries, the 
people and so on. Now, we are not sitting in a court of law. We are dealing with historical 
forces and movements. We are fighting for our freedom. During the struggle for our 
freedom, did we have any iron-clad evidence that communal riots were being provoked ? 


734 


We could not have. But we did discover after freedom that some of them were deliberately 
instigated. In fact, as I have said earlier, I met a high official at the time of Queen Elizabeth’s 
Coronation who told me of his role in one such-communal riot. 


ae 2 ak a मर ae me ai मं 


Imperialism as such has gone but we all know of the views which several industrial 
countries hold about developing countries; we all know of events in other countries. At 
this moment we can only guess. We cannot produce proof of what any body is doing. We 
can only judge from what is happening in other countries, what has happened on other 
continents. Those events have been acknowledged. They are no longer guess work. Some 
of us did human inkling and I spoke of it. I was hooted down by my own party members 
when I said something like that at a party meeting. Later, books appeared and evidence 
appeared describing what had happened. We can only judge from our political experience, 
from the knowledge of what is happening in the rest of the world. We must recognise the 
nature of contemporary world forces. There are well documented activities of external 
agencies in other countries. The question before us is : whose interests are being served 
by casting doubts on the role of these external forces ? 


ak 3K aK mc she मं ae ae fe 


Punjab is very much at the centre of it. That is I am speaking of these matters. Why 
should this collusion take place at this time ? The link between communalism and neo- 
imperialism are deep-rooted. India is among the few developing countries which is a 
democratic and secular State. India is also among the few developing countries to establish 
through planning which was at first so strongly denigrated in some parts of the world, a 
strong independent and self-reliant national economy. India 1s in the fore-front in the 
movement for peace and disarmament. India’s voice is loud and clear for restructuring the 
existing inequitable relationship in international economy. India symbolises non-alignment 
and is its most positive force. Efforts to subvert our independence through open aggression 
through overt and covert pressures have failed. Because true to our tradition, the Congress 
did not succumb during the post-independence period to the pressures or blandishment of 
powerful forces. 


So, now some other way has to be found to weaken India, and this is the true 
significance of events in Punjab. That is why, the agitations in Punjab, a sensitive border 
State, a State with a dynamic economy. In other parts of India also although these may 
have different reasons, yet there is some link between them. Can we ignore the remarkable 
coincidence of troubles in Punjab with the rearming of our neighbour ? Can we ignore the 
strong revival of secessionist forces in Jammu and Kashmir and those in Tripura and the 
north-east border ? In fact, not only in Tripura, but we have that problem in the whole 
north-east. 


As I said, some are willing to believe the good intentions of everyone else except their 
own Government. To them these events may have no connection, but anybody else will 
see that they are closely connected. 


735 


eee 


va 


33: :22:57: 


72,240: oie 
Bees 
al 


ae a कद 
: 40202: 
ret, 


The main point is—need the army have gone to the Golden Temple ? And how did we 
deal with the demands ? A name has been mentioned, and the person is now supposed to 
~be a hero of the Sikhs. I do not want to go into this business. This accusation has been 
refuted; there was no connection between any person there and the Congress. If the press 
or some people say that two of our M.Ps won their elections because of him and so forth, 
I can say there is no truth in that allegation.... (/nterruptions) 


22k ok मर मंध् मं fe ake fc 


This matter has been gone into yesterday and again today and I am not going to reopen 
it. But it has been very clearly stated that what the hon. Member has said is incorrect. 
There were internal quarrels amongst the Akalis themselves. We know, they were there 
before, they were visible even during the talks. And it is possible, I cannot be positive 
about this, but what, I have heard is that some candidate of his was defeated by some other 
Akalis in their own elections so to take revenge, they decided to defeat their candidate. 
That has nothing to do with us. Anyway, the questton is about the demands.... (Interruptions) 


aK मंप् मर ae मु afc a a oe 


So far as the demands are concerned, I have made my views and my stand, which is 
the Government’s on the religious issues clear from the second meeting at which the 
Opposition was not present, the second meeting with me. When that meeting was over, 
they said, these are not the real demands; the real demands which had not been mentioned 
up till then were water and territory. Naturally, I said, if those were the most important 
demands you should have mentioned them earlier. We have sat for 2 '/, hours today; we 
sat for, perhaps 2 hours on the previous occasion. Then I had some public function and 1 
had to leave. So, from then on the religious demands were pushed into the background 
and these other two were brought forward. My stand on these has been categorical 1 have 
stated time and again and I think Shri Chavan or some one who spoke has also said this— 
that Chandigarh would go to Punjab. * 


2c oe मै मे मद ak ek ak 


It could not go unless Haryana got something in its place*. Well, it is on this that we 
could not get any agreement. They were not willing to talk to the Haryana people. 
(/nterruptions) 


ae मंद ae ae मर aie he मर 


Now, the question is that originally we had said that Fazilka and Abohar should go to 
Haryana, but once Punjab said, they wanted them. The question was what would Haryana 
get instead. Punjab said that we should give money for a new Capital. We have no objection. 
We said we would share the cost with Punjab, but we felt and I still feel that Haryana 
should get some compensation in land also. Now, this is my view. It does not mean two 


* Replying to Shri Indrajit Gupta’s remark, “It should have gone by now”. 


or three villages which Haryana would get anyhow. This is what Bagriji must also have 
thought. He knows the posting. We could not get a lasting solution by starting an agitation 
in Haryana simultaneously. Therefore the two matters have to be balanced. 


ae ak of 42k ak ae जद 


It was not engineered.* It was well controlled as soon as it broke out. It was a tragic 
occurrence and we were deeply—I was deeply—distressed that our Sikh friends should 
have been harassed, their turbans taken off or whatever else was done. But as soon as we 
heard of the incident we took the strongest action and from then on it did not recur. But I 
am referring to that demand. Had we made a declaration that Chandigarh would go to 
Punjab while keeping the Haryana matter hanging, then there would have been trouble in 
Haryana. This is what I am trying to say. But just now I am not concerned with the demands 
that were discussed. I am concerned with the demand that was not discussed, which is the 
Anandpur Sahib Resolution. The opposition parties were not able to convince me that the 
Akali Dal had given up the Resolution entirely. All I was told was, ‘They will not raise it 
now”. 


We AK मंद ak गैर मर ic ac 3 


Whenever the Akalis were asked about this, they said—I do not know whether they 
used the word ‘minimum’—but they said—that they had not given up the Anandpur Sahib - 
Resolution. Furthermore, when I asked the opposition leaders who were present at some 


“of 
so 
7 fat os 
pat “a 
os a कप 
a Nas 
S ie 
OR 
Res 
ee ee 
ae 2 
ise) 
eh By 
०2 
2:22 
ad 
८००४ 3 
Ms 0) 
My KY 
ees, 
ee 
Sp nee 
‘4 कं 
० 
22 
tn 
mA ” 
३००१४ १ 


oe 


4 
‘< 
‘ 
~ 
4 


of the meetings about this resolution they confirmed that it had not been given up, it was : 
only shelved. Shelved for how long, they could not say, whether that could be for three . 
months, six months or one year. : 
oe 

In those circumstances I did not see any point in the Government officially announcing = 
what it was agreeing to. What were we getting in return ? The Akalis were not willing to : 
accept that there was terrorism from the Golden Temple. They were not willing to accept 


that there were arms in the Golden Temple. Vajpayeeji said that I asked them if there were 
arms. I did not ask them. The then Home Minister wrote to them to say that we have 
information that there are arms. We have information that in such and such room such 
and such wanted person is hiding, so please hand them over, so that we do not have to 
take any action. And that 1s why we repeated that we did not want the Police to go in, that 
we did not want to interfere in any way with religion. It is only when we came to a dead 
end that the army action had to be taken. 


One word about the Anandpur Sahib Resolution. My colleague Shri Sethi made his 
statement in Parliament that the Akalis were changing their demands. In his reply Shri 
Longowal asserted that the Akalis had at no time given up the Anandpur Sahib Resolution.... 
(Interruptions) 


ae मं: ak HO} Ik ae ah मर 


* Responding to a Member’s remark, “It was engineered.” 


I am told that in July, 1981 Shn Tohra, President of the SGPC and Shri Gurdial Singh 
Ajnoha, Head Priest of the Akal Takht went on a tour of the UK and USA. We have reason 
-to believe that they established contact with the proponents of separatism. I do not want 
to take names, you know the names prominent in the movement. From the Talwandi Group, 
the General Secretary and the former Minister in the Badal Ministry 1s reported to have 
sent an application to the United Nations for associate membership of the UN for the Sikhs 
as a nation. So far as we know, the application was more or less at the time of this visit to 
the countnies. 


We know how the Akal Takht and the Golden Temple complex were being used. And 
we know that at first this was denied. Soon after the Army action when I sent somebody 
to the Golden Temple, one of the important persons there said that he was in charge of the 
Akal Takht but of four months or so he had not been allowed to go there. He was in the 
complex but he was not allowed to go there. 


We have heard of the feelings of the Sikhs. When I went to Amritsar, I was closeted 


. 
with some of the authorities for a briefing meeting but some of those who had accompanied aS 
me went into the city and met a number of Sikhs and also Hindus. One taxi-driver said : ee 
‘You people who were not living in Amritsar have no idea of what we have been through. é 7 । 
I am a Sikh; I am a Jat Sikh. I am not basically a political person. I do not belong to any ee 
political party. But when I left home in the mornings; my family did not know whether 1 eS 
would be back in the evening. If there was a noise near the door, we did not dare open it.” Be 
This was the atmosphere before the Army action. The further you go from Amritsar you ae 
find the atmosphere changes because those people do not know what was happening there. : 
Such was the situation. cae 

You say: ‘Did the Government fail ?’ Well, to some extent, it was a sort of failure. हा 
But what is the reality of the situation ? Because Police forces consist largely of the majority s 
community of the State. This makes it difficult for them. They do not necessarily agree S 
with what is happening but they are pressurised; not just they themselves but their families - by): 
are threatened with death. Anybody who tried to help to find the terrorists or who gave : 
information was killed, his family was threatened his family members were killed. Some i 
days ago, just before Parliament opened, two Sikh women came to see me. They said : i 
We have been here for some time, we wanted to see you but did not know how. I said : - 
Well, did you contact anybody”? They said : We did not know whom to contact. And finally, i 
they thought of telephoning. They telephoned in the evening. They were given an is 
appointment the very next morning. One of them said she was living not far from the a 
Golden Temple. Three of her sons were killed in front of her. She said: I am an old lady, I ee 
have three daughters-in-law to look after. I have grand children to look after. I dare not go es 
back, I do not want to go back to Amnitsar. I was born there, I was brought up there, I do He 
not know any other part of India but I do not waat to go back to Amritsar. Please give me . 
some place to live in Delhi or anywhere else. Such were the things that were happening 
there. So, when in spite of our best efforts, the police was not effective any more. And 
this is not peculiar to Punjab. We have been seen this happening in Assam. I referred the ee 
other day to the language riots. I was not in the Government then but I was sent there as oS 

oo é 


Head of Committee on behalf of my party. The question there was not of Hindus versus 
Muslims. It was between Hindus and Muslims who spoke Assamese and Hindus and 
Muslims who spoke Bengali. What did we find ? In those districts where the officers were 
Sikhs or where they came from South India, there was no trouble. But where communities, 
the officials were Assamese whether Assamese speaking or Bengali speaking, they were 
so terrified that they could not function. If a Bengali upheld the just case of a Bengali, 
they would say : ‘No, he is a Bengali, that is why he is supporting him.’ And I must admit 
that even a Bengali who was with me, whom I thought was well above such narrow 
mindedness believed that an Assamese could not be believed. This sort of atmosphere is 
terrible. This is what we have to fight together. It can not be achieved by Government 
alone. This is why in the National Integration Council in Srinagar, the minorities made 
the proposal of having a mixed force. I am sorry that we have not succeeded in having 
one. Something has been done to induct more minority people in the police force and other 
forces but I must confess it 1s inadequate. In Punjab there is one kind of situation, in U.P. 
it may be another, in Kerala it may again be different. 


This is why people have confidence in the Central forces rather than in the local police. 
It is not that we want to interfere, that we want to sent the Central forces, but a situation 
is created in which there 1s confidence on those who come from outside whose families 
cannot be threatened. Some people want the army withdrawn from Punjab admitting that 
one or two incidents may take place. But others threaten saying. What will happen when 
the army goes away I do not want the army to stay there permanently. Of course, it is not 
going to stay. It should come out as soon as possible but we must, ॥ the meantime, create 
conditions in which the people of Punjab feel safe, not only the Hindus but a large number 
of Sikhs as well. They may say something publicly but privately they have admitted that 
because they were against extremism, they are in peril. There is no day when I do not get 
letters with photostat copies of these threatening letters which people in Punjab are 
receiving. 


All these things have to be kept in view.... 


Ok मर मं ke ae 2 he a 


The army is already out from the main area, it 1s outside the parikrama.* But a new 
situation has arisen, that of kar seva. We are trying to talk to every different group. It was 
our information that the Akalis did not want to repair the Akal Takht. They want to keep it 
us a monument for the future. Hon. Members can well understand that, if it is kept as it is, 
will it not increase the bitterness day by day ? This is the problem. Hence we felt that if 
one group is not willing to do it, somebody else should do so. Whoever is willing to 
undertake this task should do so. Frankly, I say that if nobody else does it, then the 
Government should do it. But is should be done, After that if the Akalis want to break 
down the Akal Takht that 1s their busincss. But, if 1t is broken because of our action, then 
we should see that it 1s repaired, that it is left in the condition—not in the condition in 
which we found it because when we entered it was full of terrorists and full of arms. I do 


* Replying to Shri Satyasadhan Chakraborty who said, “Withdraw from the Golden Temple itself.” 


not mean that past—it should be a building which is as beautiful, as strong and complete 
as it was before the days of terrorism. This was our only motive in trying to encourage 
the kar seva. I do feel that the sooner this work is complete, the sooner it will be possible 
for the army to leave. 


When one man takes courage,—and it requires a lot of courage, in the face of threats 
to do this seva, he is entitled to protection. People were allowed in the Golden Temple 
earlier, they went in thousands and thousands. I do not know what the exact situation is 
today. But there was a risk of people going in large numbers and women squatting to stop 
the work. This would create a bad situation. So, until some of the building work is done, 
full protection must be there. 


However, even now the army is not in the main areas. They are not in the Harmander 
Saheb, they are not in the Parikrama, they are outside. 


we ae a CK a aie मं कं 


They may be, I do not know.* They may or may not be. I said they have to in a position 
where, should the trouble arise, they can immediately control the situation and save the 


people. 


When we were talking about Kar Seva some people demanded that the army must go 
out completely and ultimately suggested that it could stay on top of the gate. What can 
they do from the top of the gate ? They can only shoot. If they were put somewhere on 
the ground, they can stop the people or do something less drastic. These are some of the 
problems. If one goes into all the details, it will take hours and hours. These are some of 
the important points which have to be understood. 


I am happy that people have praised the role of the army, the courage of the army. But 
an hon. Member of the other House who is not a member of our party made a rather 
derogatory statement. I know that we are not supposed to refer to the other House, but I 
have already spoken there and shall not get a chance to reply there. I must deplore his 
remarks. They are not conducive to bringing back harmony or for the national good. 


Earlier people denigrated the police, I mentioned just now why the police was not 
effective. It is not just that they were terrified. But when people in responsible positions 
are denigrating authority, they cannot, at the same time, expect people to obey authority. 
There are two contradictory attitudes, you speak all the time strongly against the police. 
Naturally, the police wonder why they should act. If anything happens, the onslaught is 
on the police or on the para-military forces. It is demoralising for them as an open attack. 
The reinstatement of the police who were dismissed because of sabotage or other 
indiscipline will certainly demoralises the rest of the police, those who have stuck to their 
duty. 


* Replying to Shri Indrajit Gupta who said, ‘They are in the Darshan Deori.” 
plying yit Gup y 


740 


Pantene 


These are many factors which created an exceedingly complex situation. The army 
had an arduous task and they did it bravely. We have praised the Army on many occasions, 
not only for their work in war time, but also for the efficient self-less work they do in 
peace time. Some of our Jawans have lost their lives or limbs in the course of food dropping 
in the North-Eastern area or in flooded areas. We do not want to use the army on every 
pretext or make them do the work of civilians but there are certain occasions when the 
use of the army is inevitable. As I said, the situation in Punjab was not an ordinary situation. 
It went far beyond any normal agitation or normal violence and crime. 


As regards the Sant who is now guiding the Kar Seva and his attitude towards the 
Granthis, a journalist who cannot by any stretch of imagination be accused of partiality 
for my government or for me personally, wrote in his paper that the SGPC Chief had over- 
ruled the Priests objections and allowed the terrorist leaders to establish themselves 1n the 
Akal Takht and convert it into an arsenal. So, why accuse Baba Santa Singh. 


Some hon. Members have asked why we delayed the action. It seems one cannot be 
right no matter what one does. We delayed it precisely because we did not want to take it, 
because we wanted some way out, some kind of understanding which would include the 
throwing out of terrorists, the dismantling of the arsenal and the ending of a situation which 
threatened our country’s unity and integrity. It is because we were trying until very last 
moment, that we did not take the action earlier. But when we came to a stage when we 
felt that there was no other way, we had to ask the army to go in. I did not choose the day. 
I suppose various things were taken into consideration. 


There is talk of a person becoming a hero and some people are trying to separate him 
from the other Akali leadership. The Opposition leaders, may know that one of the first 
demands of the Akali leadership was for Bhindranwale’s release (Interruptions). 


he ok ak ae मंद मंद OK ok 


It is mentioned in the White Paper.* 


It is in the White Paper. Here you are all criticising the White Paper. You are telling us 
it does not have this and it does not have that, but 1. seems to me that you do not know 
what it contains. 


af मे ak ake ak ae eke oh 


I think I have made all the points and my colleague the Home Minister, will go into 
the details. But the question is : now, what do we do ? And the first thing is that we should 
bridge any division between different Communities. We must, all of us, and this is the 
responsibility of all parties and all citizens of India, to heal whatever hurt is there. Not 
only our Sikh friends are hurt. All of us are hurt. 


* Responding to Shri Chandrajit Yadav’s remarks, “He was released earlier than that. It was not in the tripartite 
meeting.” 


aby 
a 


741 


I myself was deeply painted in talking the action. You can ask my colleagues what I 
went through. Perhaps, this 18 the first and only time in my life when I did not sleep. But I 
- felt that the step had to be taken in the national interest. And today we have been to see 
hdw we bridge the chasm that has been created the distances that have been created between 
one community and another. That is, our foremost duty. 


We have to fight communalism of any kind because that is the greatest danger to our 
unity. 


Where did this cry of separatism rise ? It did not arise in India. It rose far from our 
shores from people who are affluent. Some may be wanting citizenship of other countries. 
Many are actually citizens of other countries. Some may feel that this will bring them some 
advantage. Whether there were pressures or suggestions from others, I do not know. But 
this slogan is strongest today outside our country. We must meet this challenge as one nation 
as and one people. We should not bring in party politics. 


Some people feel alienated. The Sikhs feel alienated for some reason. Other people 
feel alienated not because of religion but because of economics. There are many reasons 
for alienation. There is also alienation because some people suddenly became rich. They 
became alienated from the places from which they came and from their families. There 
are all kinds of alienation. 


Our effort 18 to try to have a balance in the country so that we can pursue with our 
programmes and not only strengthen, but consolidate our unity to go ahead strongly on 
our accepted path of socialist development. We have to revitalise the tradition of our 
national struggle. We have to move the entire people. This is where we have to have a Be 
massive movement—a movement for unity has to be created, just as during the freedom S 
struggle and even after the freedom struggle my father said—“Freedom is in peril, defend 
it with all your might’, this 1s what we need today, to revitalise the tradition of our national 
struggle and to move the people by a vision of a new society based on equality and social 
justice. : 


The battle for secularism, the battle for unity is not only in our words. It must be in 
the hearts and minds of all our people. This we have not been able to achieve. At the 
slightest provocation we find some communal trouble arises or class trouble arises. We 
have also to remove the cause for gnevances. But for this great task of building a strong 
and united India we have to rise above our narrow outlook and short term gains, look ahead 
to a future that is worthy of the sacrifices of those who suffered and laydown their lives 
for our country’s freedom and its defence. 


मंद AK मंद mE मं गैर aK Hi ae 


It is really sad.* I am in constant touch with the Government of Haryana and the 
concerned engineers. I am trying to find out the latest position and the type of assistance 
we can render. 


* Responding to Shri Mani Ram Bagri's remark, ‘“‘Bhakra Canal was breached twice, but you have not uttered even 
a word about it.” 


742 


We have already expressed our grief here in the House as well as outside for the lives 
that were lost. 


Some people insist that the security forces should be withdrawn from the State. 
Whatever was done within the Golden Temple did not eliminate the danger which is still 
looming large. We have to combat it. We all should sit together and decide how to go 
about it.t 


+ Translated from Hindi. 


743 


Dismissal of Shri N.T. Rama Rao’s Ministry* 


Sir, [have not come to challenge anybody or to accept any challenges. I have come to 
make a brief statement because so many misleading stories are being circulated. I am not 
going into the merits of the case in Andhra Pradesh. I should have liked to reply to some 
of Shr Advani's points, though I have not heard the beginning of his speech. My colleague 
the Home Minister and others will do so later. In view of what has appeared in the Press, 
what I have heard and what leaders of the Opposition parties have been repeating. I thought 
I should avail myself of the earliest opportunity in this discussion to state some facts 
regarding developments in Andhra Pradesh. Much heat has been generated by the hon. 
Members of the Opposition. Just now the House was witness to the sort of situation that 
is sought to be created in Andhra Pradesh itself. You can understand the intimidation and 
so on that is going on. (/nterruptions) In Shri Advani’s speech, he perhaps obliquely or 
not so obliquely wanted to point the finger at us. Now, I am not unused to this sort of 
campaign of character assassination which the Opposition leaders have now launched. Shri 
Advani has only to look at the back and present numbers of R.S.S. newspapers to see what 
utter slanderous lies, they have been wniting about me. Not today but long before I was in 
Government because of my stand on matters. This is clear to everybody. The onslaught 1s 
in the same vein today—since they could not find any other cause—they have tried many 
ways to achieve Opposition unity. Now they think they can make this work. In earlier years 
also every possible subject and gimmick has been used by different parties at different 
times to vilify me and to discredit me. This is known in our country and it 1s also known 
abroad. International leaders have spoken to me of this. 


Now also, Opposition arguments are based on certain assumptions and premises which 
are totally unfounded. I consider it essential to set the record straight. I wish to place the 
following facts before this hon. House. Firstly at no stage did the Governor of Andhra 
Pradesh consult me in his decision to dismiss the Rama Rao Ministry. 


ae > akc 2c a मं We ak ac 


I am going to repeat Sir. At no stage did the Governor of Andhra Pradesh consult me 
in his decision to dismiss the Rama Rao Ministry or to invite Shri Bhaskar Rao to form 
the Government. When we were trying to assess the actual situation, we learnt that the 
Governor had already initiated action to swear in the new Chief Minister, and that our 


* Participating in a discussion regarding political developments in Andhra Pradesh, R.S. Deb., 21 August, 1984, cc. 
233-38. 


Q ee rt Le wae Boe: + Lee LS yt itt 22222 222222 SE BC %22727727:/::%:/ RO ROP ESE OPPO RENEE 2:22 077: :/7%:/ 677. /:: 7 
४ ie; 22252 2,222 BER Ey neg 
ot RSA 26222 i ee 


150022275 
Ny 


party M.L.As. there had extended their support to him, that is to the new C.M. The 
conclusion which the Governor had arrived at that Shri N.T. Rama Rao had lost the majority 
in the Legislative Assembly was based entirely on his own judgment and was not in any 
way influenced by me, my Government or my party at the Centre. (interruptions) If Shri 
Advani thinks that every single decision is taken here, he is much mistaken and if he is 
mistaken about one thing, he can obviously be mistaken in many other matters. Even our 
decisions here in Delhi, unless it is a very important matter which has to come before the 
concerned committee, or may come to me personally, I may say that 90 per cent of decisions 
are taken by those concerned whether in the Party or in the Government. We do not function 
like the Marxists or the BJP.... (nterruptions). 


a 2k 9k ae ak ak ake मंद fe 


Sir, now, that the Governor has taken a decision, the question of majority or otherwise 
of the new Government has to be decided only on the floor of the Andhra Pradesh 
Legislative Assembly.... (/nterruptions). 


2 2k ak 2 ak of ae ok मं 


Sir, I should have been impressed by Shri Advani’s views on the importance of the 
Legislative Assembly meeting but for the fact that he very conveniently forgot to refer to 
the dismissal of Shri Devaraj Urs’s Government by the then Janata Party Government. 


2 2 ok ok ok मंध्म॑र मं 


The judgment did not figure in the decision.* At that moment there was no question 
of the judgment. I have seen (Jnterruption). It is because somebody had raised this question. 
I am not justifying it; as I said I am not even replying to the points made but because a 
member has specifically mention this fact, I thought that I should refresh his memory. That 
is al] I am trying to do.... 


akc मंद मर ai 3c मं aie 2c ae 


No, that is not what I am saying.** I am refeshing his memory. (/nterruptions) I am 
not here to answer questions. I should also like the House to know that I am told that 
since 1967 during my tenure there has not been a single day when there has not been an 
Opposition Government somewhere in the country.... (/nterruptions). 


IK 9K a mi ae ae ae मं: भर 


Sir, I am sorry, I have to repeat this because I do not want the records to be wrong. 
Now that the Governor has taken the decision that the question of majority or otherwise 
of the new Government has to be decided only on the floor of the Andhra Pradesh 
Legislative Assembly, I understand that the Chief Minister has already announced his 


* Shri M.S. Gurupadaswamy intervened to say that Shri Devaraj Urs’s Government was dismissed because there 
was an inquiry of corruption against him. 
** Responding to a Member's remark, ‘Two wrongs do not make one right”. 


745 


decision to advise the Governor to advance the date of the convening of the Legislative 
Assembly. (Interruptions). I emphatically refute the charge..... (Interruptions). Your shouting 
isnot going to cow me down. You do it every day and you do it today till you are blue in 
the fate.... (Interruptions) | 


ae ok के afc af af eae मं 


I emphatically refute the charge that we are toppling governments..... (Interruptions) 


afe afc ae a मे ok ai ae के 


Anywhere that governments have fallen, it ts because of their own internal dissension 
which have caused their parties to break up. 


मर मं ak a ic a We a a 


We have nothing to do with that.* Did we have anything to do with the breakup of the 
Janata party? 


ak a a Hk a ok मं 


It 1s the Opposition governments who themselves spread the stories of toppling. You 
will remember that before the last elections in West Bengal, we heard a great deal that we 
were going to topple the CPI(M) government, that we were going to have the President’s 
Rule. But none of that happened. We have never at any time, wanted to topple a 
government. 


a कं भर We ae मं mi 2h 2c 


I am painted to note that leaders of the Opposition parties now, as before, are trying to 
put the blame for everything on me, on the Congress Party and on the Central Government. 
Now that I have stated the facts before the House, I can only hope that the Opposition 


leaders will desist from misguiding the public and provoking a needless controversy on 
this issue. 


ak ak a ae 3 ak af oe ok 


**Sir, It is not my intention to reply to Prof. Madhu Dandavate’s remarks. The Minister 
of Home Affairs will do so and, if need be, I may intervene later except that the same 
subject is probably coming up tomorrow again. 


मैर मर मं ae मं मं Oh 


That is not true.*** I speak whenever there is reason for me to speak. It is true that I 
do not speak in season and out of season or when there is no reason to do so. 


* Replying to Shri Parvathaneni Upendra’s comment, “You are expert in breaking parties”. 


** Participating in the debate on a Motion regarding disapproval of the act of Governor of Andhra Pradesh in dismissing 
Shri N.T. Rama Rao’s Government without ascertaining majority on the Floor of the A.P. Assembly, LS. Deb.. 
21 August, 1984, cc. 368-74. 


*** Responding to Prof. Madhu Dandavate's remark ‘‘We rarely hear your voice”. 


746 


oe 


But, at this moment, I thought I should available myself of this earliest opportunity in 
this debate to state some facts regarding developments in Andhra Pradesh. I am not going 
into the details of them. I am just picking up one or two facts. 


I might add that while I admire Prof. Madhu Dandvate’s enthusiasm and his insistence 
in his concluding remark about our quitting, he has said it so many times that it has become 
rather stale. (/nterruptions) 


Much heat has been generated by hon. Members of the Opposition. You have seen it 
here and we have been hearing about it in the past few days. I am not unused to the sort 
of campaign or character assassination which they have launched outside. (/nterruptions) 


In earlier years also every subject, every possible gimmick has been tried by different 
parties at different times to vilify and to discredit me. It is no use making a noise. It 1s a 
fact known by the people of India as well as people outside India. (/nterruptions) 


fe ak ae ae fe me a मं 

Thank you. Professor I am not, referring to you.* I said, different political parties at 
different times. I have not mentioned your name. Nor do I intend to do so. The House 
knows as well as the Indian people that I was not spared even when I was out of office. 


Now also, Opposition’s arguments are based on certain assumptions and on premises which 
are totally unfounded. (/nterruptions) 


I consider it essential to set the records straight. So I want to place the following facts 
before the House. (/nterruptions) 


At no stage did the Governor of Andhra Pradesh consult me in his decision.... 
aK AK अर fe अर a me aie 2 
If this is not vilification, I should like to know what it is, Prof. Madhu Dandavate. 
Perhaps, you give your definition of it. 


मंध 9K 3 ak ac ac MOK OK 


How do you know what rules who flouted and who did not ? (/nterruptions) 


If they keep making so much noise, I am going to repeat that sentence because it 1s 
important. It is equally important for the maintenance of democracy about which the hon. 
Members talk so much. I repeat, at no stage did the Governor of Andhra Pradesh consult 
me in his decision to dismiss the Rama Rao Ministry or to invite Shn Bhaskara Rao to 
form the Government. (/nterruptions) 


aK ae ak a भर मे me मं अर 


* Prof. Madhu Dandavate said that he had never even referred to Smt. Indira Gandhi’s character and would not refer 
to it in future also. 


1 747 


I am not yielding. 
_ In fact, I got the news .... (Interruptions) 


You de not believe the progress of India, you do not believe anything that is being 
done in India.... (Interruptions) 


In fact, we first got the news through a news agency.... 


ae a ak मै: मंद ak ak ac अं 


While we were trying to ascertain the actual situation, we learnt that the Governor had 
already initiated action to swear in the new Chief Minister and also that our local Party 
MLAs had extended their support to him. 


The conclusion which the Governor had arrived at that Shri N.T. Rama Rao had lost 
the majority in the Legislative Assembly was based entirely on his judgment ...and was 
not in any way (/nterruptions) 1 am not going into those details. Later on those details 
will be given by my colleague. I have said that if necessary I can intervene again. 


The conclusion of the Governor was entirely based on his judgment and was not in 
any way influenced by me, by government in the Centre or by my Party at the Centre. 
(Interruptions) Yes, 1 have just said so. (/nterruptions) 


aK 2 3k ae a के ae 2k 2 


It is clear that the hon. Members do not even listen to what is being said. I have just 
said that my local party extended its support to the new Chief Minister. This is what you 
are also shouting about. 


tok मे 2 2k 2k 2 40K 


Without consulting me....* (/nterruptions) 


Now that the Governor had taken a decision, the question of majority or otherwise of 
the new Government has to be decided only on the floor of the Andhra Pradesh Legislative 
Assembly.... (/nterruptions) 


I understand that the Chief Minister has already announced his decision to advise the 
Governor to advance the date of the convening of the Legislative Assembly. It has come 
in the paper. (/nterruptionis) 


1 emphatically refute the charge that we are toppling governments. (/nterruptions) 


Anywhere that a Government has fallen, it is because of its own imemal dissensions 
which have caused its party to break up. 


In Ahdhra Pradesh also we know what had happened before. I have come to know 
that the Leaders of the Opposition are trying now, as before, to put the blame of every 
thing on me and Congress (I) Party Members. (/nterruptions) Now that I have put the facts 
before the House, I can only hope that the Opposition Leaders will desist from misguiding 
the public, provoking the public.... 


* Responding to Shri K.P. Unnikrishnan's question, ‘That is also without consulting you ?” 


. 

कब ate 

SO ORS 
sete es 


= 
Re 777 


santa tata ata 


ae रु 


९४९०९ 


ERR 


es RS SS EP RRS NS RSS 
a8 ee ie igeah 22202: 200% 22:22: 20020 os AD NR RO Sk 20027 as Meets 


748 


INDIA AND THE WORLD 


Visit of the Vice-President of the United States“ 


Madam Deputy Chairman, Vice-President Humphrey of the United States, accompanied 
by Mr. Averell Harriman and other officials, arrived in New Delhi on the 16th evening 
and left on the 17th night. 


During the stay, Vice-President Humphrey called on the President and the Vice- 
President. He had discussions on economic problems with the Finance Minister, the Minister 
of Food and Agriculture, and the Minister of Planning, on international affairs with the 
Foreign Ministers and on the situation along our borders with the Defence Minister. Finally, 
he had talks with me which rounded up the discussions he had with my colleagues. 


On the food front, he was anxious to get, for President Johnson’s information, an 
assessment of what further assistance we would need from the United States, as well as 
the kind of help we had been able to mobilise from other countnes. He made enquiries 
regarding our efforts to step up our own agricultural production and expressed satisfaction, 
both in his talks with me and later-in his Press Conference, with the picture that we had 
given him of our plans to allocate more resources to agriculture and the evidence that he 
himself had got of the effectiveness with which our plans were being implemented during 
his visit to the Punjab. 


se 


EERE Sn Bo SS NON TD SITIES TS RG IRENE RRO RS NOE GEE SR SB 
22:22: 02 i OO ech ct eran eS UR OO 


a ७ ८ (9) 
Segre 
= 


He further informed me that in order to help our industries to utilize their capacities 
more fully, the U.S. Government would extend a loan of $100 million which would be 
available for the import of commodities which are गा short supply. He indicated that during 
my visit to Washington, President Johnson would discuss with me the question of further 
economic assistance and support for our Fourth Five-Year Plan. In this context, he pointed 
out and I fully agreed with him, that a country which receives aid from outside should do 
everything possible to mobilise its own resources to accelerate its rate of growth. 


We had a full and frank exchange of views on the Vietnam situation. Vice-President fs 
Humphrey gave a resume of the U.S. position on Vietnam and of the outcome of the Le 
meeting of President Johnson with the leaders of the South Vietnam Government held in 
Hawaii recently. He affirmed the U.S. Government's wish to avoid a widening of the 
conflict and emphasised that they were anxious to see an early restoration of peace which 
would enable the people of Vietnam to decide their own future through normal democratic 
processes. He mentioned the keen desire of President Johnson and of the South Vietnam 


* Making a Statement regarding the visit to India of the US Vice-President, R.S. Deb., 22 February, 1966, 
cc. 879-884. 


on | 


Pe Tee EOS SO OREN 
70600 20000 
2:२४ 
ORR 


— ee 7४ 
oe Ba RINT aR 9 ae SOT RN 

mee, ee को Benes MOONE Se aR Ate 92% ॥) Be “120९ 
04210 87 0000 co 27% oun eR 


1:48 हे 
oS . 2865 3 
0 wo oe ८०८४४ PALA 22 fis 01०१४ oe 
22228 2:2200000222/0000/:27%: 


Government to accelerate social and economic development. He appreciated that India’s 
attitude regarding Vietnam was based on India’s position as a non-aligned country and as 
Chairman of the International Commission for Control and supervision. He expressed the 
hope that we would do everything possible to facilitate a peaceful solution of the problem. 
We expressed our concern at the danger of the escalation of the conflict and our anxiety 
that a peaceful solution should be found for which the framework of the Geneva Agreement 
formed the best basis. 


a ak ak मंः मैप मं a 2k ak 


Madam Deputy Chairman, I am obliged to the hon. Member for drawing my attention 
to the various newspaper reports.* It is not customary to give the details of such talks but 
as I have mentioned in my Statement, Vice-President Humphrey did state the American 
point of view and we stated the Indian Government’s point of view. There is no question 
of our giving in on any point. Their attitude is clear and our attitude has been reiterated 
many times. It 1s equally clear. 


* Shri Bhupesh Gupta drew the attention of the Prime Minister to the press reports which said that the US Vice- 
President, Mr. Humphrey during his talks with the Indian Prime Minister had complained about the denunciation 
in the Indian Press of the US Vietnam policy and was reassured about it. There was an effort by the US to attach 
strings to the aid to be given to India. Shri Bhupesh Gupta wanted to know what exactly transpired in that regard. 


Indo-US Relations* 


Madam Deputy Chairman, as the House 1s aware, I paid an official visit to the United 
States from 28th March to Ist Apni in response to an invitation from President Johnson. 
On the way I broke journey at Paris, where I met President De Gaulle and Prime Minister 
Pompidou. On the return journey I met Prime Minister Wilson in the course of a brief 
stop-over in London. I also made a halt at Moscow, where I had discussions with Chairman 
Kosygin. 


In Paris I was received with much warmth and cordiality. President De Gaulle showed 
deep interest in our economic problems and assured me of the earnest desire of the French 
Government and people to help us in dealing with them. In particular, the French 
Government is ready to help develop further cultural, scientific and technical co-operation 
between out two countries. A team of French technical experts is visiting India soon in 
pursuance of this objective. My talks with the French President revealed a full understanding 
of our position on various international issues and a substantial area of agreement between 
France and India on many issues. | feel sure that my meeting with President De Gaulle 
will further strengthen the close and fnendly relations between our two countries. Our 
President has already invited President De Gaulle. The House will recall that some time 
back (towards the end of last year) Shrimati Pandit personally conveyed the invitation from 
the President when she visited France an our special envoy. 1 hope President De Gaulle 
will find 1t convenient to visit our country. He will be a very welcome and honoured guest. 


Before coming to the main points of discussion with President Johnson and the 
impressions of my visit to the United States; I should like to take this opportunity to tell 
the House of the great warmth and graciousness of the hospitality and courtesy shown to 
me by President Johnson and the American people and to express my sincere thanks to 
them for it. I had full and frank discussions with President Johnson and his colleagues, 
and the broad substance of our ‘discussions is set out in the joint communique issued at 
the end of the visit. A copy of the communique is placed on the Table of the House. I 
should perhaps mention briefly the general spirit in which our talks took place. In the fast 
changing world of today, such meetings are necessary even between friends who share 
many values in common. Our object was primarily to establish a close rapport and 
understanding, and not to exchange advice or favours. I believe that in this we succeeded 
in full measure—an outcome which owes much to the complete candour and mutual 
confidence with which we approached our task. The conversations ranged over a wide field. 


* Statement by the Prime Minister regarding her visit abroad, R.S. Deb., 7 April, 1966, cc. 5781-96. 


: a 


Bes 


JRO NO I Sa ERIN NOOO SE STON ae CORRE oe RDI RE RAEN NLU RN RAD SE Ra OR 
2८ rere : 5००३) 7021 ee cae PIA SAEED ou रु 0०%४१०५९००१००८ 
gee SES nee 4 MASE ethane 00057८:0:८८2/.6: (2402९ ५ 4 
ONE OL 20:77 22222: 22772: OOO PRES RE ORR SOE AE RE TE DE 


es 
aS 


१५०४०, 
‘ Cayo 


52:22: 
3 


०८ 
Bota en ane, a 22 
a eee 


22:22: 


Ss 
PO aS 
22223: 


PEE SATIS SEE SESE ERA RIED = 
eC TEE ERE EE ECs RTS Ra 2० 272:00 ease a aeons 2८222: 
हे ५5५ Seas . ‘2 


SSAA 
2००51 ०१०००१८% 
or 


“eS 
525०3 


०५०१०९०१-१०९०:०९ ४५०४४ 

‘Sn anata’ dae rs ee Or 
22225 Sots 
: 02228 ce 

Ro caesar eaten 

22224 OO PON ees 


RES 


(7 


ee 
Ses 
cy a 
a 


President Johnson expressed understanding and appreciation of our own massive efforts 

to raise the living standards of our people. He assured me of the deep interest of his 

9 Government in continuing to assist us in our efforts to promote such development, by 

playing its full part in the Consortium, which has existed for some years, to mobilise 
external support for our plans under the auspices of the World Bank. 


0०, ० ७. 


On our emergency needs for food, Presideat Johnson sent an urgent message to the 
U.S. Congress immediately after our discussions, seeking Congressional approval for 
generous additional supplies of foodgrains, cotton and other agricultural commodities. The 
message set our economic progress and current problems in perspective. I am sure the 
House would like to join me in expressing our appreciation of its speedy passage through 
the U.S. Congress. During our talks on India’s food problem, President Johnson likewise 
displayed a sympathetic understanding and appreciation of our efforts to help ourselves, 


of the promise of our plans for increasing agricultural production and of our programmes a 
for population control. - 
The President also announced the establishment of an Indo-U.S. Foundation to help 
develop new techniques in farm and factory, to advance science and to extend research ae 
facilities. Such a proposal had in fact been under consideration for quite some time and 
. ० ee न ee 4 

was approved by Government about a year ago. The Foundation will be administered in a ४ रा 
oe 


manner consistent with the Government of India’s educational plans and programmes and 
with a view to further the national interest and the health of the economy. 


x 
ne 


23:४4 


ines 
207: 
5: 
12:21 


Saeed 
2:20 


ER eos 
222, beta 
ane . 


As the House is aware, we view external assistance only as a means of supplementing 
our own efforts and as an aid towards achieving self-reliance in the shortest possible time. 
In the course of our talks President Johnson repeatedly stated that the United States views 
its assistance to us in the same spirit of promoting self-help and early self-reliance on our 
part without interfering with our policies or plans. 


ate 
a 
3 
BS 


Seat 


Pee * 5 
ice pepe 2०072: ORO Nees 
“ 22 aS » 

°° एड ‘i 

eens 


RRS 


erate! 
oe 


There was reference to India’s relations with Pakistan during the talks. I reiterated 
India’s desire to promote the friendliest of relations with Pakistan in keeping with the 
Tashkent spirit, despite the difficulties created. We agreed that the peaceful processes set 
in motion by the Tashkent Declaration should be continued. President Johnson expressed 
his strong support for. the Tashkent Declaration and his desire that there should be friendship 
between India and Pakistan. Reference was also made to the threat posed to India’s security 
by China’s aggressive designs and postures. Apart from re-affirming our determination to 
defend our freedom and territorial integrity against any threat, from whatever quarter it 
may come, I emphasised the fact that the long-range challenge of China is as much political 
or economic as millitary. I also explained that India’s gigantic effort to attain the goal of 
democratic socialism and of achievements in the field of development, in conditions of 
stability, was itself a notable contribution to peace. | 


The situation in Vietnam was briefly discussed. I reiterated India’s continuing desire 
to see a just and peaceful solution of this problem. 


754 


I have extended an invitation to President and Mrs. Johnson to visit India, and the 
President has expressed the hope that it would be possible for him to visit our country 
again. 


In New York I had a useful meetings with Secretary-General U Thant at the United 
Nations and took this opportunity to address the Afro-Asian group. 


Besides the discussions which I had with President Johnson and his colleagues, I had 
occasion during my stay in the United States to meet and share my thoughts with a large 
number of distinguished American citizens in the course of various public engagements. I 
reiterated our stand on Kashmir and its wider implications. These contacts have, I think, 
helped promote a better understanding of our views by the American people. 


On my way back from the United States I had a meeting with Prime Minister Wilson 
in London. Our talks covered many subjects and were held 1n a friendly atmosphere. They 
have resulted in a better understanding of India’s position. Mr. Wilson expressed the British 
Government’s readiness to join other countries in giving urgent consideration to immediate 
steps for providing further economic assistance to India as soon as possible. I have invited 
Mr. Wilson to visit India, and he has accepted the invitation. 


In Moscow I had valuable exchange of views with Chairman Kosygin, in the course 
of which we reviewed the international scene and, in particular, the developments following 
the signing of the Tashkent Declaration. As the House is aware, Indo-Soviet co-operation 
in the economic and other fields has grown steadily during the past many years. A number 
of projects are currently under execution with Soviet assistance, and the Bokaro steel plant 
has been added to the list very recently. The Soviet Union continues to take a friendly and 
sympathetic interest in our Fourth Plan, and during our talks in Moscow we agreed that 
the preliminary discussions, which we have already had in this regard, will be expeditiously 
pursued. 


Chairman and Mrs. Kosygin have agreed to visit India later this year. This will give 
us yet another opportunity to strengthen the bonds of friendship and goodwill between 
our two countries. 


I was reluctant to be away from India even for a brief period when Parliament is in 
session and at a time when we have many pressing problems to tackle at home. But as the 
House will appreciate, despite the urgency of our tasks and the underlying friendship of 
other nations towards us, it 18 necessary to develop contacts at the personal level from 
time to time with the leaders of countries with which we have established strong ties of 
cooperation and understanding. I have every hope that my discussion during this visit 
abroad will advance the cause of friendship and cooperation not only between our respective 
countries but also in the wider comity of nations. 


Madam Deputy Chairman, throughout my ten-day visit, I found an abundance of 
friendship and goodwill for India and a growing understanding of the significance of India’s 
foreign policy and of its developmental efforts. We can derive satisfaction and strength 
from these manifestations of friendship. But we must never forget that there is no substitute 


for hard and determined effort and sacrifice on the part of the Indian people. The nations 
of the world are watching the Indian experiment and they will respect us and be willing to 
assist us only in the measure of our own effort and sense of dedication. This is the task to 
which we must now, as before, address ourselves, with faith and confidence in the capacity 
of our people to shape the destiny of India.* 


af गंध ak 26 2 ak ek मं 


Madam, it is not a fact that I did not go prepared**. We did have. business talks... 


We a मर 2 मर मर aK afe मं 


There are so many questions. Madam the first is about the Indo-American Foundation. 
Perhaps hon. Members are aware that the money for this 1s already here. It is PL 480 money 
which is in India some of which up till now used to be reloaned to the Government of 
India for Plan investment. Some very small proportion, five per cent, is kept for the 
so-called Cooley Fund from which private investment with American collaboration is 
supported and the balance of 15 per cent has been reserved for U.S. Government use in 
India. Uptill now this was entirely in the discretion of the Americans. This Foundation 
brings, if I may put it that way, a little discipline into it and, as I have said, the programmes 
which will be financed through this Foundation will be within the framework of our Plan 
and our own priorities. All investments will be made in Government of India bonds. Now 
I think this 1s a better way of using the money than has been the case upull now. 


About Vietnam, naturally one cannot agree on every point with everybody and different 
nations do have different points of view. They appreciate India’s stand in this respect. 


a मंद ok WK OK a afc ofc मं 


..As far as arms aid to Pakistan is concerned, naturally this was mentioned. What they 
will do and how they will look into this matter is their own concern. ***We can only put 
forward our own point of view with regard to these matters. 


मै मं भर मै: मर भेद 2 ak ak 


..Now about the question of World Bank. Here firstly nothing has been postponed. 
The food aid to India message has already passed through the Congress. As far as economic 
aid is concerned, the consortium has already held a meeting and other meeting will be 
held soon. Naturally this has to be now discussed in the perspective of our Fourth Plan 
and those details can only be gone into by experts from both sides, not only from my side 
but even from the American side. It is not for President Johnson to discuss the points but 
for his experts. And routing the aid through the World Bank enables the aid-giving countries 


* An identical Statement was made by the Prime Minister Smt. Indira Gandhi in Lok Sabha also. (L.S. Deb., 7 April 
1966, cc. 10010-15). 


** Replying to Shri Dahyabhai V. Patel who said that the Prime Minister did not go prepared to talk business with the 
President of the United States. 


*** Answering the points raised by Shri Bhupesh Gupta. 


sae 
on 


Bah ye EL SNR ARR ESSER SAE 
Rison picasa pana ० Cea eR ad कमी OW eg कक 
SALSA he tO awa peta) Manne Dates ante 
पाप ae ares TT eat oy i ny 
० कफ एक eet के 7० 2122 40, 2 
Oates ett at 
> शेप एप पर ५ 7 


ee 
ee 

ei nie 2:25 * 

:772:::7722::02777 77:25 


Bos 2212 aes a 
See 


% “oe 
- 

. 
ee 


seca aes. 
ot 


756 


to muster the support of their people and their legislatures for it and thus they find it easier 
to go through with their different proposals if the people know that these proposals are 
endorsed by the World Bank. And I do not think it harms our own interests in any way. 


ee a ate ec a oe ac और 


Naturally, Madam, people were rather disturbed at the speeches, rather provocative 
speeches, which have been delivered in Pakistan recently on this question but they did all 
feel that India should show patience and that we on our part should try not to act in the 
same way but to see if it is possible to implement the Declaration.* 


a teak AK He oe मं 


Madam, what I said was that India would be glad to find a peaceful solution to 
Vietnam.** I did not say that India had such a solution. I think it is possible to get around 
a table and discuss these matters. I think if we or anybody could be instrumental in 
arranging such a meeting, on the basis of the Geneva Agreement, it could lead to peace in 
Vietnam. 


aK मं मं ae अर मंद ic 3c भर 


As regards my stop-over in Cairo, I would centainly have done so with great pleasure. 
Only it was not on the way. When the route was planned, I was going by Air-India and we 
had decided to return via Moscow. You cannot do both Cairo and Moscow on the same 
trip. 1 do not think, Madam, that I can reply to the third question, which has been asked 
here. 


* Smt. Shakuntala Paranjpye asked whether the Prime Minister tried to find out what Chairman Kosygin thought 
about Pakistan's attitude towards the Tashkent Agreement. 

** Replying to Shri A.P. Chatterjee who wanted to know (i) whether the Prime Minister had told President Johnson of 
America and Premier Wilson of England that unless the American forces were withdrawn from Vietnam, there 
would not be any peaceful solution to Vietnam; (ii) Why did she not stop over in Cario; and (11) whether the Prime 
Minister had got an assurance from President Johnson that the American Central Intelligence Agency would not 
utilize the PL-480 funds in India. 


787 


India’s Foreign Relations* 


Madam Deputy Chairman, the House is aware that I visited the Soviet Union from 
July 12th to 16th in response to an invitation extended to me by Chairman Kosygin soon 
after I assumed office, and renewed twice thereafter, En route to Moscow, I took the 
Opportunity to meet President Nasser in Cairo and President Tito in Brioni, in response to 
their earlier invitations. 


Hon. Members are aware of the very close and friendly relations we have with the 
three countries. With the U.A.R. and Yugoslavia, we are bound closely by common 
dedication to the policy of peace and non-alignment and by close co-operation in many 
fields and on many occasions in international conferences. Personal contacts between the 
Heads of these Governments and our own have been frequent and fruitful. 


It was a great pleasure for me to renew personal contacts with President Nasser and 
President Tito. With both leaders, I had frank and friendly exchange of views on the 
international situation, particularly as it affects the policies of non-aligned countries. Both 
President Nasser and President Tito shared our desire to strengthen the policy of non- 
alignment and peaceful co-existence, which plays such a vital role in the maintenance of 
peace and friendly relations among States. They also shared our concern at the various 
pressures to which the policy of non-alignment and peaceful co-existence 1s being subjected, 
both in the political and economic spheres. We discussed our bilateral relations which 
happily have been developing satisfactorily with both the U.A.R. and Yugoslavia, and 
agreed that they should be further strengthened in various fields, including economic, 
cultural and scientific, to our mutual advantage. 


I informed President Nasser and President Tito of our sincere desire for friendly and 
good neighbourly relations with Pakistan in the spirit of the Tashkent Declaration. I also 
informed them of China’s hostile and provocative attitude towards us and of our friendly 
and co-operative relations with our other neighbours, such as Afghanistan, Burma. Ceylon, 
Nepal, Malaysia and Singapore. 


President Nasser and President Tito agreed that we should co-operate with one another 
and with other non-aligned countries in making non-alignment a dynamic force for the 
lowering of tensions and for promoting peaceful co-existence in the present-day strife- 
torn world. They said that they were looking forward to the tripartite meeting which is to 
be held in October this year in India where these matters could be discussed further. 


* Statement on her visit abroad, R.S. Deb., 25 July, 1966, cc 172-80. 


Ie SE Ee ae Nae ot i ter ei eee ee ee De Oe eR 


788° 


It was agreed to institute regular consultations between India and the U.A.R. and India 
and Yugoslavia on matters of common interest. We agreed that personal contacts between 
us and between our Ministers, officials and others are valuable and should be as frequent 
as possible. 


In the course of my State visit to the Soviet Union. I had discussions with Chairman 
Kosygin and Mr. Brezhnev, while the Minister of External Affairs, Sardar Swaran Singh, 
met the U.S.S.R. Foreign Minister, Mr. Gromyko and the members of the delegation and 
discussions with officials of the Soviet Government. My talks with Chairman Kosygin and 
other Soviet leaders took place in an atmosphere of frankness, friendship and complete 
understanding. The discussions covered a wide range of subjects of mutual interest to both 
our countries. 


We discussed, in particular the post-Tashkent.developments in relation to India and 
Pakistan. I acquainted him with certain developments on the other side of the border which 
were causing us concem. I apprised Chairman Kosygin and his colleagues of the steps 
which India had already taken in this direction, including some of the unilateral steps, such 
as the removal of the trade embargo and the release of confiscated cargo, and of our desire 
to have talks with Pakistan at any level, without any pre-conditions, in the spirit of the 
Tashkent Declaration, so as to build friendly and good neighbourly relations with that 
country and resolve peacefully all our disputes. Chairman Kosygin expressed positive 
appreciation of our position. The Joint Communiqué briefly reflects our discussions on 
this subject. 


I was glad to find that there 1s no change in the basic position of the Soviet Union on 
important questicns of special interest to us. I was assured that their stand on Kashmir 
remains unchanged. While the Soviet leaders expressed their desire to improve their 
relations with Pakistan, they assured us that this would not be done at the expense of their 
friendship with India. They also assured us that they had not supplied any arms or 
armaments to Pakistan, nor had any agreements with Pakistan been made in this regard. 


On international questions, our discussions confirmed the identity of views on a broad 
range of international questions, such as peace and security, renunciation of the threat or 
use of force, resolution of international disputes, including border disputes, solely by 
peaceful means, the acceptance of peaceful co-existence as an imperative for the 
maintenance of international harmony, and the freedom of dependent peoples. 


We also discussed the question of strengthening world peace and reducing international 
tensions. We agreed that it would help if all military alliances were simultaneously 
dissolved. We consider this a step forward and hope that sooner or later all countnes will 
realise that military alliances hinder rather than foster mutual trust and confidence. 


Madam Deputy Chairman, before my departure I had, in the course of my broadcast 
to the nation on the evening of July 7, put forward certain ideas as a possible basis for a 
peaceful solution of the Vietnam problem. The basis of my approach is that there can be 
no military solution in Vietnam. There is no alternative to seeking a peaceful solution in 
order to avoid a disastrous war, with the danger of massive escalation. A peaceful solution 


759 


20202 eee San 
x “4 oe = Ps es me 


can be reached only at a conference table. Hence the necessity for the co-chairmen to 
convene a Geneva-type conference to which we attach the greatest importance. It would 
be unrealistic to expect a conference until the bombing of North Vietnam is stopped. India 
_has always been against such bombing. Once a Geneva-type conference is called, we 
anticipate that it might take considerable time to achieve final results. Therefore, it was 
suggested that, during this interim period, the International Control Commission, 
strengthened if necessary, should assure the observance of any standstill arrangements which 
might be agreed upon. The objective of the conference should be to find a solution within 
the framework of the Geneva Agreements of 1954. The Vietnamese people should be able 
to decide their future in accordance with their own wishes without pressure or interference 
from any quarter. 


These ideas are not new; we have expressed them from time to time. I was, and continue 
to be, deeply concerned by the human suffering and the danger of escalation of this conflict 
into a wider war, with disastrous consequences not only for Asia but for the world. Already 
the escalation has led to a revival of cold war postures and a sharpening of confrontation. 
This is what prompted my suggestions. I felt that at this juncture it was incumbent on us, 
as an Asian country deeply interested in peace, to draw the Vietnam problem away from 
the battlefield to the conference table. 


‘This question naturally figured in our talks in Cairo and Brioni. There was closeness 
of views between our Government and the Governments of the U.A.R. and Yugoslavia. 


In Moscow also we exchanged views on Vietnam. The joint communiqué refers to our 
basic points of agreement. 


So far as our own suggestions are concerned, we stand by them. We are convinced 
that there is no alternative to a peaceful solution reached at a conference table. Our 
proposals contain a reasonable basis for starting the process of negotiations. We are pursuing 
our efforts. | 


In our talks in Moscow, we touched upon Indo-Soviet economic co-operation. The 
Soviet leaders showed their usual sympathy and understanding for our economic problems 
and for the efforts made by us for economic development. My colleagues, the Planning 
Minister, the Food and Agriculture Minister and the Commerce Minister who had preceded 
me, had finalised agreements on various matters. Since Chairman Kosygin was away in 
Bucharest during their visits and returned to Moscow only a couple of days before my 
own arrival, confirmation of these agreements was conveyed to me. The Soviet Government 
announced a total credit of 970 million roubles, that is, about Rs. 830 crore, in state and 
commercial credits during our Fourth Five Year Plan. This aid is mainly for more industries 
in the public sector. I should like to take this opportunity of expressing our sincere gratitude 
to the government and people of the Soviet Union for their response to our requirements 


of financial credit and technical assistance in various projects during our Fourth Five- Year 
Plan. 


I emphasised that India was determined to achieve a self-generating economy in the 
next decade and to build a socialist order in keeping with the needs and aspirations of our 
people. Both sides regard Indo-Soviet friendship as aimed against none, as a friendship 


620 व ९ ee 7222 
aa 22: 


० ०2०० SND sae ee ee CRE THOR RE RY AR न तट डा कफ कट फल फल 


that does not prevent either the Soviet Union or India from making friends with other 
countries. 


In all three countries we were received with great cordiality and with the warmth and 
friendship which characterise our relations. I should like once again to express my sincere 
thanks to the government and people of the U.A.R., Yugoslavia and the Soviet Union. I 
am confident that my visit and the personal contacts between us and the leaders of the 
three countries have contributed to increased understanding and have strengthened the ever 
growing bonds of friendship between our countries and peoples.... 


ak a अं Heke a afk मे 


4 


Madam Deputy Chairman, with your permission I place on the Table of the House the 
following documents: 


(1) the joint Indo-Soviet communique of July 16, 1966. 
(2) the joint Press statement issued in Cairo on July 10, 1966. 
(3) the joint Press statement issued in Brioni on July 12, 1966. 
ae मर ae WK 2c मर aie ait अं 


As mentioned in my statement, Madam, there was closeness of views—but not full 
identity of views in these matters for a number of reasons—on Vietnam with all the three 
countries.* They were not willing for various reasons which of course we had discussed- 
but these are confidential conversations and talks and one cannot mention them publicly— 
but one thing was clear that they all agreed with our own view that unless bombing stops 
first no further steps can be taken or even envisaged. 


With regard to our borders we naturally put before all these countries the situation as 
we see it and according to the information we have both with regard to Pakistan and with 
regard to China. We can only repeat what the Soviet leaders told us. They told us that 
there was no change in their attitude towards Kashmir; at the same time they are anxious 
to build friendship with Pakistan as they feel that that will strengthen them in restraining 
Pakistan as well as be of help to us. With regard to arms also they assured us, as I have 
said in my statement, that they have not supplied any arms nor made any such agreement. 


ak Ae a ee अंध और ae मंद 2h 


Tashkent Agreement is merely a declaration.** We cannot issue such waming to other 
countries. But we have certainly told them that if a thing like this happens, the people of 
India will not take it in good taste and it will have a wider ramifications also. This much 


we did tell them.t 


* Shri Mulka Govinda Reddy wanted to know whether U.A.R. President Nasser and Yugoslav President Tito shared 
India’s view on the Vietnam problem. Whether the Prime Minister of USSR appreciated the proposals of the Prime 
Minister of India on Vietnam and whether the Prime Minister of India brought to the notice of the Prime Minister 
of USSR that Pakistan was violating the Tashkent agreement. 

** Replying to the points raised by Shri V.M. Chaurasia about the violation of the Tashkent Agreement by Pakistan 
and about the reported proposals for arms aid to Pakistan by Russia. 


+ Translated from Hindi. 


761 


TRESS 
‘<a 4 “ 
20222 SOR aes 
252 4०००० ०८०९०२००००:%क ००३० 

as 


aah Pes 
ate ae 
oe 
‘os 


x2 


oO ose 
2222 
2: 


ee 22224 ty 
22255 2 
2:22 


दि > 
22:९८ 
Sen 


52:22: 7: ER SS ‘ 
Sar ete 


SAGES See 


ss 
re 


‘aS 20772 
OE 
oN SRR 
tant coe ee 


oor 


. 5 


eaten 
ee 


22023 
Baars 


SOM RS aa 


eee 
Reem 
ws 


77२2४ 


जज, 
Peo eee 
CORO a 


५7273 Antena 
as eD 
Race 
eed 
, Ae 


India’s Foreign Policy* 


Every time there is a debate on foreign policy, one has to say something which one 
has said repeatedly. I should have liked to avoid saying them this time, but some hon. 
Members of the Opposition have again talked on the same points and, therefore, it becomes 
necessary to give the correct perspective once again. 


Foreign policy is conditioned by the objectives of any country’s internal policy, and 
internal policy in turn 1s a manifestation of the people’s aspirations and political philosophy. 
Our foreign policy has to be governed by what we ourselves have gone through. We have 
been subjected to foreign domination and we, at least my generation, cannot forget the 
arrogance or the humiliation of the domination. Therefore, it is natural for us to speak out 
when we see similar things happening to other people. Even when we were fighting for 
our own independence, we spoke out for other independence movements. We spoke out 
for the oppressed of all other lands. I think that in tum gave us strength and helped our 
movement. Today also...we cannot isolate our policy in this, we cannot isolate our lives 
from what is happening elsewhere. It is said many times : why are we bothered with what 
is happening outside when there are so many problems within India? But at no tme in 
history was any country fully isolated. Certainly, in this century and in this part of the 
century, there cannot be isolation, when we are also closely linked with what is happening 
in other countries. It may be right for some small countries, who are not so closely linked 
with various streams. Who have not been through a freedom struggle, who have not got 
our racial memories to keep aloof; but it is not possible for India, it is certainly not possible 
for this Government to keep aloof from what is happening in the rest of the world. 
Whenever we have not spoken out loudly, it is the members of the oppcsition who’ have 
accused us then of sitting on the fence and of not speaking as loudly as we might have. 


Much has been said about non-alignment. I have, here in this House and outside this 
House, repeated time and again that non-alignment has at no stage meant neutrality. There 
are only two ways : either you are non-aligned or you are aligned. I would like to ask my 
hon. friends of the Opposition this; when they criticise non-alignment, does it mean that 
they wish us to be aligned, and, if so, with whom, with which alliance, with which country? 
Of those who speak against non-alignment, we have a right to ask this question, we have 
a night to have an answer to it from them. 


mk a मर a he मद ME Ht ae 


* Replying to the debate on the Demands for Grants, Ministry of External Affairs, 1967-68, LS. Deb., 17 July, 1967, 
cc. 12414~-25. 


762 


When there were two main blocs, the object of non-alignment was to achieve a detente. 
My hon. friend opposite, Mr. Masani, accused us yesterday of preventing such a detente 
between the two super powers. I would like to tell him that far from preventing, if today 
there is a blurring of these blocs, if there is a tendency for them to talk more and to be a 
little closer together, it is largely because of the policy of non-alignment followed not only 
by India but by an increasing number of countries all over the world. This is not merely 
my opinion; it is the opinion of many people in the world, including some of the people 
whom Mr. Masani admires. (/nterruptions). He knows best; I need not say. 


Today it is not just a question of people coming together. We stl believe in the necessity 
of peace, and when I said earlier that we could not remain isolated from what was 
happening, this is one of the main reasons; whenever there is a war, it affects us; it affects 
our economy; it affects not only the Government’s policy but it indirectly affects the lives 
of all the people of this country by pushing up prices, by making the availability of certain 
things difficult and so on, so that we have a stake in peace. It is not that we are just talking 
about a high ideal, but it is something which is very essential to our survival, to our 
existence and to our development. So, we are interested in these countries coming together. 
But we have to see on what issues they are coming together; how that 1s going to affect 
us, how it is going to affect our national interests. 


We are idealistic in our thinking certainly. But, I do not think that our idealism is in 
any way divorced from the interests of our people. 


We have gone through, as I was saying just now, in fact, not only India, but most of 
the countries in Africa and Asia, have gone through long periods of foreign domination. 
We have not yet recovered from that. It 1s not fair to compare what is happening here, in a 
vast country of such diversities and such different levels of development with what some 
small country has achieved and with an enormous amount of foreign aid. We, the people 
of Asia and Africa, have to guard our common interests very zealously. We must oppose 
any move to damage our sovereignty, whether these moves are by way of direct external 
pressure or whether they take a more subtle disguised form. Sometimes, emotional 
responses are deliberately engineered to damage the balance of our policies or to push us 
into a frame of action which is not really in our interest. 


Hon. Members must consider, as I said earlier, which pact we should join? Would we 
have greater freedom if we belong to any one side or would it limit our freedom of action 
and freedom of judgment? Secondly, would the big powers give us anything, we want 
merely if we sign a piece of paper? I think it would be extremely naive to think so. 


Joining a pact would impose limitations on our policies, both external and internal, 
because our action would be conditioned by the obligations of these pacts or treaties. Today, 
what is the state of alliances? I think hon. Members know that there is considerable re- 
thinking about both the CENTO and the SEATO. The blocs are dissolving, and several 
centres of power are crystallising. There are also very subtle nuances in the relationship 
of the super-powers and their partners. There are significant contradictions and there are 


also certain parallelisms. 


763 


24:0९ 


Whatever attitude we take is governed by the ultimate effect of it. Today, some one 
nation may have won a war. But what will be the result of this long afterwards? We know 
that the war has bred tremendous bitterness, and bitterness cannot be wiped out by words. 
If we take sides or we assure our support to somebody, it-is not just for taking up an attitude 
or shouting out aloud, or, as my hon. friend, Shri Manoharan has said, because we like 
the sound of our voices, but it is because we feel that in that particular situation, speaking 
out will help to draw attention to something... which could help the situation or lessen 
the bitterness. It is up to the hon. Members of the Opposition to feel that in all these twenty 
years, India’s voice has not counted. They are free to say so. But it does not alter the 
historical facts. It does not alter the facts that on many occasions it is India’s voice and it 
is India’s quiet persistent efforts at the UN and at other international...forums...which have 
produced good results 1n the end. For instance, when the Korean fighting was on, India 
produced a resolution. We were blamed by both sides right and left that it was very wrong 
thing to do and we were letting down everybody and so on. And yet that resolution formed 
the basis of the settlhement which later came about.. 


So, it is not possible, just sitting at this distance, to judge exactly what tremendous 
work goes on behind the scenes at the UN or how we are able to influence or change the 
stream of events there. It does not mean that we always succeed. Nobody has always 
succeeded. I would like hon. Members to tell me whether there 15 a single big power today 
in the world which can say that its foreign policy has always succeeded. There is not, and 
it cannot be possible. But I think that by and large we have succeeded. Of course, we may 
make mistakes; we are not infallible, but by and large our efforts have made some little 
dent and we have been able to create the right atmosphere. If you were to go to the UNO, 
you will know, and I hope that my colleague, the Foreign Minister, will tell you of his 
Own recent experience, how the people are anxious to know what India is thinking. I know 
about it. I have not been to the UN, but I have functioned in the UNESCO for five years, 
and I saw how much weight people put on India’s opinion. In fact, 1t has even happened 
once that the delegate of a country phoned to his Government to find out what stand he 
should take on a particular issue, and the reply, to his surprise, was “Please find out what 
India is going to do’. It was not a communist country; it was not even an Asian country. 


K HK मै ae af aie ae ak a 
Both are connected*. This is what I have been trying to explain. Both are very closely 


connected. You cannot separate the two. We want to influence world events in such a way 
as will be in our national interest, as will help us in the long run and in che short run too. 


mk He मर a 3k मं me ae मं 
I do not want to go into the West Asian crisis, because I have talked about it on an 


earlier occasion, and I do not want to go into the details of any particular issue here. But I 
do think that the manner in which some Members make an equation rather facetiously, if 


* Replying to Shri Bal Raj Madhok who said : “Is the object of our foreign policy to see whether we influence the 
world or not or to defend our own country’s interest ? What is the main object of our foreign policy 7” 


ir aan 
एल 


I may say so, about little Israel threatened by the aggressive Arabs reminds me in a way 
of how people in other countries talk similarly of tiny Pakistan being threatened by a huge 
India. The history of these problems, the physchology of peoples, the tragic use of small 
but dangerous military establishments against larger independent neighbours must be kept 
in view when deciding our attitudes. 


As I said, our interest is very much concerned with what is happening in these other 
areas, and we look at them not only from the point of view of what is happening today 
but also from the point of view of how it affects the future of our country. 


My hon. friend Shri M.R. Masani tried to compare our capture of the Haji Pir and 
other points with the Israeli aggression, but he forgets that Haji Pir is our territory at this 


moment... 


aK 2 और He ae मर fe और मंद 


It is not at all a dangerous ground*. We have temporarily come back from there because 
we made a treaty. 


a ae मर ai afc a WE 2 मर 


It is not only Haji Pir which is today under Pakistani occupation, but a great deal more 
of Indian territory is there on that side... 


aK मं > WK a oc 3k ae ae 


We have not separated Haji Pir from the rest of that land. We do not accept Pakistan’s 
occupation of that land; Pakistani occupation on our land covers a great deal more than 
just those two or three points. 


मैप > 9K aie मैप और a 2K 2 


The point is that all these events are not isolated and we have to assess their total impact 
on ourselves. 


As far as our own borders are concerned, the Defence Minister has spoken here many 
a time. I have gone there recently not because of any immediate danger, but because I 
have been taking interest in our border areas and our security forces who are stationed 
there right from 1962, and have been visiting these areas every year since then. I must tell 
the House that it is always a pleasure to go there and see the fine spirit of our people, of 
our forces who are living in such conditions of extreme hardship. It is difficult to imagine 
what hardships they face unless one goes there oneself and sees for oneself. 


I talked earlier about Shri Masani’s point concerning detente. We are certainly interested 
in the non-proliferation of nuclear weapons, but we feel that by itself this does not solve 
any problem. That is why the 18-nation Commission was not called a Non-Proliferation 


* Replying to Shri Bal Raj Madhok who said, “She is treading on very dangerous ground”. 


765 


Commission, but the Disarmament Commission. We believe in total disarmament and we 
think we should work towards it. 


Shn Masani also dwelt at great length on the nuclear shield and blamed us for not 
following it up. Actually we did take the initiative. Shri Masani knows that Shri L.K. Jha 
went to various places in that connection. Earlier... President Johnson had made a 
statement. However, that was a unilateral declaration and it did not really call for any 
application on our part. We welcome what President Johnson said, But what we would 
like to see, and what we feel is necessary must had also is a guarantee given by all the 
nuclear powers or at least as many of them as would find it possible to do so and belonging 


to the different camps, to the non-nuclear countries—that if nuclear weapons are used against. 


any of them by a nuclear power, the others would rally to their support. This would act as 
a deterrent to any nuclear power. 


मैप oh ak ok ak ae ca 


We must realise that in the final analysis the effectiveness of any such shield in the 
field of security would depend not on the spirit in which the protectionist power accepts 
such a shield, but on the national and vital interests of the giver. 


af 2 2k a ok ak a a मं 


We should work towards certain objectives. Even if there is such a shield forth in 
coming for the non-nuclear powers, we should go a step further which would lead to the 
banning of the use of nuclear weapons against non-nuclear countries, in the same way as 
the use of poison gas has been, by treaty, declared unlawful. That is the only way in which 
it would help. 


ac aie ae ae 3K अर ae 2fe जुर 


That is the whole point about the non-proliferation treaty, that it seeks to stick to the 
status quo. It tries to have a freeze. The status quo cannot exist since China is a nuclear 
power and would not anyhow be a party to such a treaty. 


I was very sorry to hear that Shri Bal Raj Madhok made certain remarks regarding a 
lobby in the foreign office. There is only one lobby in any department of the Government, 
and that is the Indian lobby. Perhaps Shri Madhok is thinking of lobbies elsewhere. 


In this connection, the name of one of our officers was also brought in. As you know, 
there are definite rules against naming offices in Parliament in this manner because they 
are not here to protect themselves. Once before, an hon. Member of the Opposition had 
made an unfounded allegation against this officer and at that time, my distinguished 
predecessor, Shri Lal Bahadur Shastri, shouily defended him. Such statements, specially 
when we bring in religion, other such factors only help to weaken the fabric of our society. 
The officer mentioned is an able and experienced officer who has acquitted himself well 
in very difficult circumstances. There has been absolutely no occasion to doubt his loyalty, 
and I must tell the House that I have confidence in his integrity. 


Bike, 9 Sa RON a a 04:70 :% 


आर 112 
2222 


(1४१०० x LE OO TOR 
Recent: DERI no SR RRR OO 2070 5:70: 
Reader Soca ee eNO RN IIS aU ee DTI OREM UN OM OER 
2: 2:0::27::022%6050:078:%8025 5 

= A 4 


2०22, 
eos 


BO ट 
man ब००००००० 
2. 


a 
. 

s % 
पर ० 0 पे 
2०००० ८००० ४ 


Tae 


SRS 
ne a 
oS 


Sos 


००2; 
ae 
a 


2 


5 
REP KOO ew, 


oS 
3 


0 7 
KptenatetirataesocpedatoneednaceShrenenan 
बयां 1०३०5१० १००८०, २१०८०९००० 
225: 2222 22०2०: ८२ 
८0००. 
“2 

ee 


Sele 


८ 


I have spoken rather generally about certain matters because I felt that this whole 
question of foreign policy has to be put in a certain perspective. I would have liked to go 
in greater detail into certain matters. But I am sure that my colleague, the External Affairs 
Minister, will do so ably, specially as he has been in very close touch with the leaders of 
the delegations from other nations at the UN and knows what has been happening there. 
But I should like to repeat that when it is a question of our security, when it is a question 
of defending ourselves—of course, the Army is very important, it is the first defence but 
the unity of the people, giving an impression that we are all solidly behind that Army, is 
equally important. I do not often agree with Dr. Lohia, but I do agree with what he said 
with regard to equating poverty, the conditions in the country, with defence and foreign 
policy. It is a very relevant point and that is why government policy in this or in other 
matters is directed towards taking things in a particular direction which makes it stronger, 
step by step. We are today not perhaps as strong as we would wish ourselves to be, but 
we are making every effort at the moment to gain that strength, both amongst the people 
and also in regard to the defence forces. It is this united strength of the people, of the 
defence forces backed by a united and disciplined people that will carry us through. I say 
this about discipline because although hon. Members opposite would like us to be strong, 
sometimes they are not equally keen on discipline. I do not think you can have strength 
unaccompanied by discipline. So if we take these things together, I think that we will march 
forward and we shall achieve the objectives of our foreign policy. 


767 


«1 
Oe ee Sade 
5 erent 
re कं 


SIF PNT SB a EN 
Se meee 
" (८ SS 
SRN 22 eee teats Oates 
7०० 2720 220022770:2% 


India’s International Relations* 


Mr. Speaker, Sir, I beg to move: 


“That the present international situation and the policy of the Government of India in 
relation thereto be taken into consideration.” 


Sir, I welcome this debate and I share the concern of the hon. Members that it is to be 
such a short one. But the world situation is some what like the situation in our own country; 
itis a blend of both hope and despair. On the one hand there is an urge towards peace and 
economic progress through international co-operation and, on the other hand, there do exist 
centres of tension which cause conflicts and divisions within the world community. On 
the positive side there 1s an ever increasing awareness of the need for the inter-dependence 
of nations. Although each country would like to be as self-sufficient and as self-reliant as 
possible, nevertheless, the world cannot exist without a certain amount of inter-dependence 
between different countries. One of the factors which causes great concern to India and to 
all developing countries is the widening gap between the rich and the poor nations. And, 
in spite of much effort that is being made in many directions we have not been able to 
solve this problem, and the gap is a growing one. I feel that this is what sows the seeds of 
conflict and is an ever-present feature that disturbs peace. 


We greatly welcome the good relationship which we have had with our neighbouring. 
countnes, with Burma, with Ceylon and with Nepal. With Burma, as hon. Members know, 
we have recently concluded a border agreement. With Ceylon, I have already mentioned 
to the hon. Members on a previous occasion of my own visit there, which was followed 
by the visit of the Governor-General, Ceylon, which gave us opportunities to exchange 
views. With Nepal also we have had several exchanges. Our Deputy Prime Minister has 
been to Nepal and, very recently, the King of Nepal passed through Delhi. We were both 
able to have talks with him and to take up various matters of mutual concern. 


We have been trying to maintain good relations and develop our relations with other 
countries of South Asia and also with Japan, with Australia and with New Zealand. We 
have a modest programme of technical assistance and bilateral economic co-operation 
between India and other developing countries. But the urge of Asia towards economic 
progress and even co-operation cannot further itself while there is any area of conflict, 


* While moving a Motion regarding the international situation, L.S. Deb., 22 December, 1967, cc. 9300-07 
& 9366-77. 


768 


and that is why from the very beginning it has been our effort to be interested in problems 
of peace and to try the ways of achieving peaceful settlement wherever there is conflict. 


We have been vitally interested in the conflict in Vietnam, for instance, and I should 
like to repeat our hope that bombing should be stopped there, thus giving an opportunity 
to open up ways in which the conflict can come to the conference table from the battle 
field. We are deeply interested in peace in the neighbouring countries and, therefore, we 
have supported all peace initiatives which have been inspired by the same objective, and 
specially that made by the Secretary-General of the United Nations, Mr. U Thant. 


We continue to shoulder our responsibility of the chairmanship of the International 
Control Commission in the hope that this Commission may ultimately provide an 
instrument for international peace. I am sure the House would wish to join me in paying 
tribute to the personnel of the International Control Commission and our Consulate-General 
in Hanoi, who are conducting themselves with calm, courage and dignity in very difficult 
circumstances. I know that the Commission is not able to be very active but, nevertheless, 
all parties are desirous of its continuance, as I said earlier, in the hope that in the future it 
could play a more useful role. 


I should like also to speak of our relationship with Cambodia and Laos. Both these 
countries are facing extremely difficult situations and in spite of the pressures and 
difficulties they are trying to maintain a neutral position, and we do support them in this. 
Recently, we welcomed the King of Laos and we had the opportunity of reaffirming the 
similarity of our aspirations and ideals. The other visit we have had was of the Chief 
Minister of Fiji, Mr. Ratu K.K.T. Mara. We have assured him of our interest in co-operation 
and in the peaceful and harmonious development of Fiji. Then, more recent still, we had 
the Prime Minister of Mauritius, Sir Shewsager Ramgoolam. His visit also provided us 
with an opportunity for renewing our old cultural and traditional ties with the people of 
Mauritius and of forging new links. 


While dwelling on Asia. I should like to mention once again the growing understanding 
between our country and Australia and New Zealand. We belong to the same geographical 
region and our interests are interlinked in many ways. We are glad that there has been a 
realisation of this and we of course have always believed in this,-in Australia and New 
Zealand also. Today our thoughts go out specially to the people of Australia, for this is 
the day when they are mourning the tragic loss of their able and distinguished Prime 
Minister, Sir Harold Holt. 


While I am speaking of the Commonwealth, may I here mention our relations with 
the other countries of the Commonwealth and, in particular, with the United Kingdom ? 
Recently, we had the visit to Delhi of Mr. Prentice, the Minister for Overseas Development 
and I mentioned to him, as I would like to say here, our appreciation of the terms under 
which the United Kingdom has given as aid, without interest and with long period of 
repayment and with extreme flexibility in its utilisation as between project and non-project. 


With Canada also we have growing ties. We have been working together for many 
years in the International Control Commission and on many international problems. We 


769 


ela 
wee Te, 


४७४ ४ है कक 


have co-operated and we have tried and are trying to seek peaceful solution of world 
problems. 


+Hon. Members are also aware of our efforts in the Security Council to work towards a 
resolution which could provide the basis for the U.N. Mediator to restore normality in the 
West Asian region. We welcome the resolution and we offer our good wishes to the 


Mediator in the very delicate task which he has undertaken. We believe that normal and 


stable conditions should be restored in that region, as soon as possible in the interest of 
the country concerned and, if I may say so, in our own national interest. The territories 
occupied by force should be vacated and the just rights of the people should be recognised. 


We welcome the establishment of the independent Republic of South Yemen, which is 
another country with which we have had close ties and traditional links. We are glad that 
at the present moment this relationship has been very greatly strengthened and there is the 
friendliest of feelings between the people of South Yemen and ourselves. 


With the countries of Africa and Latin America also our relations remain friendly. We 
share the same world-view and the same desire to safeguard our respective soverignties 
and to promote international co-operation. By and large, in this area also the trend has 
been, to remain away from ideological, military and political groupings and rivalries so 
that they could concentrate their attention on more positive and mutually beneficial links. 


One cannot look at Africa without also seeing a few black spots which remain there... 


We have on many occasions expressed our indignation at the efforts of small minorities 


to subjugate the vast majority of inhabitants in disregard to the expressed sentiment of the 
‘United Nations and of the world community. 


As far as Europe is concerned, we have no bilateral disputes either with western 
European countries or with countries of eastern Europe. In different ways both these regions 
have been contributing to our economic progress. We recognise the economic strength and 
progress which these countries have made in recent years and we welcome this process of 
closer economic, technological and cultural connections which are now being built up with 
India. 


But we do feel, as I mentioned earlier on, that Europe and specially the more advanced 
countries of Europe, can do a great deal more to enable us to trade with them which alone 
can place out economic relations on a secure basis. We are fully aware of their own 
difficulties-the problems of European security and so on—and we hope that they will be 
resolved peacefully. 


The visit of the German Chancellor has greatly added to the understanding of our 
respective problems and, I feel, has laid the foundations of closer economic, cultural and 
scientific collaboration with the Federal Republic of Germany, 


Our co-operation with the U.S.A. and the U.S.S.R. continues to develop over a wide 
field of economic, scientific and cultural activities. We appreciate greatly the friendly 
assistance which they have both given and the faith they have shown in our own efforts to 


770 


fulfill our national objectives. The generous food and economic assistance from the U.S.A. 
is a proof of their understanding of and interest in our problems and our objectives. At the 
same time, the extensive programme of economic co-operation with the U.S.S.R. provides 
an equal proof of our common interest in safeguarding and promoting international co- 
operation. 


In this picture which is one of harmoniously developing relationship it is unfortunate 
that I have to mention that the situation still remains unsatisfactory with regard to two of 
our neighbours. China continues to maintain an attitude of hostility towards us and, as 
hon. Members know, spares no opportunity to malign us and to carry on anti-Indian 
propaganda not only against the Indian Government but the whole way of our democratic 
functioning and even our national integrity. But I would like to say that we do not harbour 
any evil intentions towards the Chinese people and we do hope that a day will come when 
they will also realise that it is to the interest of all the countries of South East Asia that we 
should be friends and that each country should be able to devote its strength to solving 
the very major problems of combating poverty, backwardness and all the attending evils. 


With Pakistan we have had and still have the many common bonds of history, tradition 
and culture and, therefore, it is all the more regrettable that our relationship has followed 
such an uneven course. We, on our part, would certainly like to see the people of Pakistan 
prosper and progress and to have friendly neighbourly relations with them because, here 
again, we believe that friendly relations between India and Pakistan would contribute to 
the strength of both the nations and would help them both to achieve a better life for their 
people without our attention being diverted to other purposes. It is for this reason that we 
welcome the signing of the Tashkent Declaration and even now, in spite of all the obstacles 
which we face, we continue to do our utmost on our side to see that it is implemented. 


मं ak मद मंद मंध 3 aK मर 


But the House is well aware how difficult this is. The immediate need, we feel, is to 
heal the wounds caused by the conflict of 1965 and to normalise our relations. This is 
what we have been trying to pursue with the Government of Pakistan. 


The development of mutually beneficial economic and other relationships should not 
follow the consideration of more tangled political questions but should precede them and 
should aim at creating a friendly atmosphere. On our part, I should like to say that we 
shall not miss any opportunity of having a fruitful dialogue in order that such a feeling of 
trust and understanding is gradually restored and avenues are opened out for better 
collaboration on various issues. 


We have not lagged behind in our efforts to promote disarmament because, again, for 
the same reason, we believe that the resources of the world should be turned to, constructive 
and productive uses. Therefore, while we have reservations on partial or discriminatory 
arrangements for the non-proliferation of nuclear weapons, we share the belief that such 
an unprecedented reservoir of energy should be used for peaceful and not for destructive 


purposes. 


In this connection, I mention the Second UNCTAD Conference which will be meeting 
in New Delhi very soon, in early next month. All our members are already aware of the 


way 


771 


growing disparity between the developed and the developing nations. While the per capita 

income of the people in the developed countries, in recent years, has been rising, on an ee 
~ average, I am told, by 60 dollars per year, that of the people of the developing countries - 

has been rising by only 2 dollars per year. Similarly, the goods manufactured by developed 

countries are becoming more expensive while the prices of the goods which we manufacture 

or which come from other developing countries are falling, thereby reducing our purchasing 

power. 


Sometime ago, it was felt that effort should be made to find ways to transfer in an 
orderly and peaceful manner resources which are essential for rapid economic growth of 
the developing countries and that is why the Secretary-General of the U.N. had suggested 
the Development Decade. Unfortunately these efforts have also been in vain and have not 
succeeded at all. Instead of the gap being bridged, we see that it has been considerably 
widened. 


Now, another effort will be made at the Second UNCTAD Conference to hold this trend 
and help to enable developing countries to acquire greater resources for their own 
accelerated economic progress. The developing countries are not asking for aid; they are 
not asking for charity or for any grant. But they are asking only for the opportunity to 
trade and to acquire greater possibilities of the transfer of resources from those countries 
which can afford them and which, in the long run, is to their own interest. It is recognised 
today, aS we recognise in our Own internal position, that prosperity cannot belong to only 
a few. Just as in our country, we see it cannot belong to a limited number of persons or 
certain classes, in the same way, in the whole world community also, unless opportunities 
are shared we cannot have world peace. Therefore, we must continue with our efforts to 
enable all the less developed countries to build a better life. 


While shaping foreign policy, national interest must, naturally, always be kept in view 
both from the political point of view and from the economic point of view. At the same 
time, we must keep our sights on long-term perspective. Conditions, locally or in any given 
area, may change and sometimes, because of these changes, we may have to take up a 
new programme. But this should not divert us in any way from our basic values. There 
will always be ups and downs for any country. In fact, there are ups and downs for all 
countries, even those which are advanced and which have the possibilities of solving their 
problems with the resources at their disposal. Even they see ups and downs, even they see 
that their policies are not always succeeding, are not always bringing the results for which 
they work and which they hope for. But our aim, while we can make adjustments for any 
new position that arises, should be not to divert from the basic principles and to do nothing 
which would bring discredit to the country. We should have faith in ourselves and always 
so mould our thinking and our actions as to serve the long-term interests of the country. It 
is sometimes when you get diverted by what seems to be in your interest today, that you 
see that you have moved away from what is really in the long-term interest of the country 
and of the people. 


With these words, I should like to commend this Motion for the consideration of the 
House. 


772 


180. Sondhiji has also expressed his views. He has said that Soviet Russia’s policy 
towards India has changed. This is also an issue over which, discussion has become 
somewhat a fashion. But we do not have any such information. We have very close relations 
with them. We discussed various issue with them but there has not been any trace which 
could show that they have changed their policy towards us. Our relations with them are 
still very close. The help being provided by them is a proof of it....* 


a te ak eo ae ae ae ae 


I am answering all questions. Some other points were raised. One is the normal one 
about our not saying...that we are camp followers of one block of the other. I am not going 
into it here again. 

a oi oc a ae कं Ke a 


Unfortunately, although the blocks had been blurred it does seem some of them are 
still there. One thing that I want to make clear is this-wherever we think that justice or 
freedom is attacked, there we have always taken a very positive stand. 


The other question raised was, why is it that in some matters we do speak up and in 
other matters, hon. Members feel, perhaps we do not speak up. We speak or we do not 
speak according to the effect we think it will have on the future development, whether 
our saying something is going to help in finding a solution or it 1s going to help us in 
going on the path of finding a peaceful solution or whether our saying something or taking 
a Stand is going to achieve the opposite result. This is the guide, along with the question 
of national interest which can never be ignored at any time. 


One hon. Member** has compared our recognition of Israel with our non-recognition, 
as they put it, of the GDR. There is a difference in these two positions. We have recognised 
Israel, as I have said here before in the House, because it 18 a member of the United Nations 
and it is recognised by the United Nations. 

2 मंद मर mea ak मै ok 


But GDR is not a member of the United Nations. With regard to China the situation is 
again different. Here is one government which is controlling the vast masses of the people 
of China, the vast mainland of China, and it seems very unrealistic to me to ignore that 
Government and say that only the Government which is occupying a small island off the 
mainland is the true government, because neither of these people believe in the theory of 
two Chinas and both of them claim to represent the China, the only one China. 

मर मंध मै HOOK teak कं 


No, we do not.*** 


a a मं ae मर मर fe ae ae 


1 Translated from Hindi. 
* While replying to the debate on the motion. 
** Shri G. Viswanathan. 
*** Replying to Shri Bal Raj Madhok’s remarks : “It is not a question of what they say. The question is whether we 
recognise two Chinas or not 7” 


773 


There are many facts of life*. The fact of life is not that only the island 1s there. 


;However, even with regard to them we have allowed them to come here. They are 
allowed to visit the country and many of our Members of Parliament have also been there. 


The hon. Member, Shri Sondhi, has made two entirely contradictory statements. First 
he said that we should have some diplomatic initiative with regard to China and in the 
very next breath he said that he did not think that our mission should continue there or 
that we should have relations with China. I have told the House on other occasions also 
that we do not have a closed mind on any issue. Although we follow certain paths, we 
follow them when we consider that they are the right paths for us to go on. But foreign 
policy, or for that matter any policy, has to be dynamic. It has to be something which takes 
cognisance of the changing pattern 1n the world and the Government of India is fully aware 
of the changes which are taking place. We are fully in touch with what is happening in 
these other countnes. But in spite of that, as I said in my earlier remarks, certain basic 
policies cannot be abandoned. Our basic policy is to be on the side of peace and freedom 
and to be anti-oppression and anti all that causes some of these evils.... 


a ok OK me oi अर é ae oe मे 


Many a time something seems to be in our interest today but it is not necessarily in 
Our interest in the long term. 


That is why both with regard to Pakistan and China, although the Government of India 
must be fully prepared and be fully on guard against any threat, in spite of that we do not 
have a closed mind. We do want to have friendship. We do want to open up any kind of 
avenue which can lead to better understanding or which can lead to a solution of problems. 


I do not know whether hon. Members expect the Government to come and announce 
every information that comes to them or what they intend to do about such information 
and so on. The whole point of diplomacy is not to make it public because one makes many 
initiatives some of which bear fruit and many do not. But even those which do bear fruit 
could not do so perhaps, if they receive publicity ahead of time. 


मैप 42k 2k kc ak OOK 


All diplomacy is secret. There is no such thing as non-secret diplomacy really because 
it becomes something different if you are openly talking about it. 


aK He मं me oe ai me ai a 


Even with it usually we find that the Jan Sangh and the Swatantra Party are together 
on foreign affairs but we found a slight shift this time. It 1s perhaps a welcome shift. While 
the hon. Member, Shri Masani, spoke quite a long while about the type of friendship which 
we have with the Soviet Union and whereas as he did not say it in so many words, I 
certainly got the impression that he felt that it was not worth our while but, on the other 


* Responding to Shri Bal Raj Madhok's observation, “Then we do not recognise a fact of life”. 


774 


ee 


5325 लीग 4५ 4 
०८ (४ 
17002: 20 :007200 
Pee tsa a ana a Sti 200० 00205. 


x 
ae 
Bac 
overs 
an! 
(2०२ 
ae 
2 
2 

५ , 


12 
yp oS 
47222 
>> 
- Cs 
M ‘5 
: 


hand, the hon. Member, Shri Sondhi, did say that it was very important for us to have 
friendly relations with the Soviet Union. 


ae a a af ak ak eo oe 


I want to assure the hon. Member that in this one thing I agree with him hundred per 
cent*. We do want friendship with both the countries. Not only do we want friendship 
with both the countries but we do have friendship with both the countries. I would also 
like to assure the hon. Member that there is no question of subservience. 


The hon. Member, Shri Sondhi, made a most extra-ordinary remark here. I do not know 
whether I have got his actual words here. But he said something about somebody 
pressurising me on Kashmir. Obviously, he has not a clue how heads of States meet or 
how they talk. I want to say that I shall, certainly, not tolerate any Head of the State or 
anybody dictating me what I should do in my country. It is an unheard of thing and it is 
simply a thing which is not permissible. 


I am very sorry that in spite of repeatedly telling Members specifically about Vietnam 
and so on, the Members of the Communist Party and some other also went on repeating 
the same old thing that when I went to different countries, I spoke different things. Now, I 
cannot, obviously, take the time of the House and bring all the papers here and read out 
my statements. But they are welcome to read them. In every country, most of these remarks 
were made in answer to questions and, therefore, that particular question had to be 
answered. If you read my answers, there is no question of suspicion or doubt as to my 
giving a different emphasis even, whether it was Vietnam or any other question, whether 
I was in the United States or U.S.S.R. or Delhi or anywhere else. Our stand 1s clearly stated, 
not only by me when I go there but also when their leaders come here, and also by other 
representatives of the Government of India. I can assure them that there 18 no 
misunderstanding on this score in any of the countries which I visited. Of course, there 
are some countries which do not approve of certain stands which we take. 


Then, the hon. Member of the D.M.K. Party was anxious that we should take initiatives 
in the U.N. I should like to tell him that India has been taking initiatives and, in fact, it 
was India’s initiative which was responsible for enlarging the membership of the Security 
Council, to make it more representative of the nations of Asia and Africa. India has taken 
initiatives in the United Nations on many other occasions, and many of them have borne 
fruit. It is not that they were initiatives which were lost. Even with regard to the present 
resolution about U.N. mediator going to West Asia, India has played a tremendous part in 
it and all nations have acknowledged the part which India has played there. 


aK 3 जुर me a OK a aK अर 


Then, there is one other point which some of our hon. Members are keen on making, 
that is, assumption of leadership by India of certain countries. This is very understandable. 


* Replying to Shri Bal Raj Madhok's remarks : “We want to have friendly relations with both America and Russia. 
But we do not want to be subservient either to Russia or to America”. 


775 


; 


eae 
ae न 


Naturally, I think, every country would wish that it should take up the leadership of other 
countries. But I may submit very humbly that it is a sort of remark that creates 
- misunderstanding in other countries because no other country wants either India or anybody 
else to be the leader. Each country wants to be the leader itself. India also does not want 
to lead any country because we believe that it is only when all the smaller countries are 
strong, both economically and politically, that they can play their part in world affairs and 
they can protect themselves from all forms of wrong influence from outside. One of our 
basic principles which I talked of earlier is non-interference in the affairs of other countries. 
We believe in being friends with other countries, but we do not necessarily agree with 
what happens in those countries. Similarly, many of our friends probably do not agree with 
some of the things which we say or do. But we feel that they should not come in the way 
of friendship or of our co-operation on those matters in which we do agree. The whole 
point behind that much used and abused world, “co-existence” is that you should be able 
to live in peace with people who are of different ideologies and that you should find areas 
of co-operation with them and you should be able to enlarge those areas of co-operation. 
It is only in that way that we can hope to build peace in our country. 


ae ok जे ah ae मे af ah a 


I forgot a very important point made by hon. Member, Mr. Sondhi. He spoke, a great 
deal of nepotism in Foreign Service. On this, if he has any specific cases, I should be very 
glad to have them. But this matter has been brought up on some earlier occasions and we 
have looked into them. But the point which he made that the local based staff consists of 
relatives of the Ambassador and so on, I must submit, is not true. But I would say that if 
he has any specific cases in mind, I should be very glad to have those names and we would 
look into them. 


कं a a me a मु me के 


Sometimes one cannot avoid having local-based people and this is specially true of a 


place like London where for historic and other reasons, the staff had grown enormously, 
and as hon. Members know, that matter has also been looked into and is further being 
looked into; it is being quite drastically cut; it is not being increased; it is being quite 
drastically cut. 


Some hon. Members think, much as they would like it to be, that we are perhaps 
confused in what we want to do and what we are thinking. I want to assure the hon. 
Members that this is far from the case. 


We are very clear about the Government of India’s policy and we are absolutely sure 
that it is not only the right policy but that it is the only policy that can be followed in the 
circumstances of the particular question in different parts of the world and in view of the 
condition in which India is to-day. And the Government of India is fully determined to 
pursue this policy and I can assure hon. Members... 


776 


ae 
डक कं 


Ree eee 


Tete ee 


sr जम ac 


ढ जब 1 
: re 
siya 
alele orate . 
४ का 
कि 
ele “See 
wea के 
62० 
ta aes 
sia 

ieee ate 
“pt 
ries Soe 
nies atat ete 


bitrate 
atin Se de 
pats 
Sita 
धरम ये 


merece 
SE 
दा 
oe 
20५० 
a 
eae 
02:00. 


जीबी कट 
Pe teat ated 
4 


bases ea 


ban vente 


Be eed 


६ 7/402४ 
Pe Pa) 
eee tee 
re आन | 
Oke nin 


Bea 
०2१7१ 
42 पबी 
८०००० | 
: ८:०८ 
7००४० 

2०५. ०१४०० 
erate 


oper nie 


eae See 
oe’ 


Peon 
aye eee 


००००० 


फागुन 
ना 

a ad 
wee anaes 

weet e tee 
Pe ae 


eee 
कि ०4० 


Lae) 


फिर 
न ete 
2 बा 2270] 
००१०४ 
ase 1० तह 
०; ००५०१ 
Neate fe 
alee oe 
eae 
502 See! 
न 
व tats 
ait «० 


हक vale 
CG 


That this policy is, in spite of people not always being with it in other parts of the 
world, in spite of that, it is appreciated and the proof of the appreciation is : why do people 
attach so much importance to what we think or what we say or what we do. 


a oe a me a oe कु oh भर 


They do*. It may disappoint Mr. Masani and Mr. Masani has been saying this practically 


from the first day even when some other hon. Members thought that India was the leader है? 
of the un-developed world. Even at that time he thought that India’s voice was not heard. ae 
India’s voice is heard and the ample proof of it was given in the last session of the United ae 
Nations. ee 


४2 22202 


* Responding to Shri M.R. Masani’s remark, “Do they 7” 


777 


A Broad Look at Foreign Policy* 


Mr. Speaker, Sir, there have been many interesting speeches in his debate. There are 
over a hundred cut motions but the main points which have concerned hon. Members are 
Vietnam and the Non-Proliferation Treaty. 


I was glad that the speeches this time were more pointed and did not attempt to range 
over the whole of human history. I am glad also to see that the induction of hon. Member, 
Shri Sondhi, into the Jana Sangh Parliamentary Party has brought a new awareness of 
foreign policy in that party. Before that, they were constantly blaming us for paying far 
too much attention to international affairs. | 


aie ae मे we 2k a eK ak 


The hon. Members of the Congress Party have lightened my task by dealing very ably 
with most of the points which have been raised by the Opposition. The hon. Member who 
initiated the debate, Shri Masani, seemed to have made a speech in defence of America, 
pleading for U.S. policies at a time when U.S. itself is engaged in revising them and trying 
to change them. The timing of the debate is such that it is natural that our attention should 
be specially focussed on Vietnam. On the 31st March, President Johnson made a speech 
of historic significance. It was a courageous initiative and I am glad it has evoked a positive 
response from Hanoi. Shri Masani used a rather strange word—I believe, he said that the 
United States Government had done what we, that is, the Government, had been 
“clamouring” for. I do not know with what significance Shri Masani meant to clothe that 
word ‘clamour’. Was there a certain disappointment that the United States should have 
taken a step which approximates 90 per cent to what we had been advocating for some 
considerable time and that our stand, so long maligned, so long criticised, now stood 
vindicated ? When faced with such moments in human history, it is not enough to come 
out with statements and to rush to the press. It 18 important to examine the issues posed, 
to initiate processes and consultations. This we have been doing. We have been in touch 
with a number of friendly countries both through their Ambassadors and through our own 
Missions there. I sent personal messages both to President Johnson and to President Ho 
Chi Minh and I am sure that we would all like to see that these processes which have 
been set afoot will reach ultimate fruition in bringing peace to the tortured land of Vietnam. 


* Replying to the debate on the Demands for Grants, Ministry of External Affairs, 1968, LS. Deb., 5 April, 1968, 
cc. 2677-90. 


Our effort has always been directed towards the narrowing of whatever differences 
still exist and in overcoming whatever difficulties remain. We hope that the two sides will 
meet and we hope that, as a result of this meeting, conditions will be created for an 
uninterrupted dialogue. We have always felt that the Geneva Agreement of 1954 provides 
the framework within which the Vietnam problem could be resolved. 


If | may refer once more to my distinguished friend, Shri Masani, he presumed that 
our stand in favour of the cessation of bombing of North Vietnam was based on our 
advocacy of North Vietnam’s cause, I may say that the question of the cessation of bombing 
of North Vietnam has been advocated by a very large number of countries and by the 
distinguished Secretary-General of the United Nations, because all these people realise that 
the issues in Vietnam are susceptible only to political solutions and that there could be no 
military solution to the problem. We believe also that these issues are far too serious to be 
made a subject of partisan propaganda. We have assured all the parties concerned that both 
as a peace-loving country and as Member Chairman of the International Control 
Commission, we would always be willing to shoulder whatever responsibilities devolved 
upon us. 


We are glad that we are not alone in this. We have the support of many countries and 
the vast majority of mankind. We should like to share with them the task of bringing peace 
to Vietnam. It 1s understandable that there is still considerable mutual suspicion and 
questioning of motives. Statements by one side are not taken at their face value by the 
other. It is our task to bridge this gap of suspicion and distrust which divides the two sides. 
Hence our effort to contact all concerned parties and to bring them closer together in the 
hope and belief, that direct contacts may perhaps pave the way towards sincere and genuine 
contacts which would lead to a solution. 


References were made by many Members to the question of the security of the South- 
East Asian region. My colleague, the Minister of State, Shn Bhagat dealt with this in his 
speech yesterday. Some Members accused us of not playing an effective role in developing 
regional security arrangement for the defence of South and South-East Asian countries 
from Chinese expansionism. Hon. Member, Shri Sondhi, also spoke of this. I am glad that 
he has recently discovered Combodia. We have had long-standing and friendly relations 
with that country and, in particular, with the distinguished head of the State, Prince 
Sihanouk. Those relations are purposeful and are based on mutual understanding, trust and 
confidence. There was concern amongst some parties that we should enter into agreements 
or arrangements with different nations of this region. Now, when we look back into recent 
history—the post-war era, we find it littered with the remains of dead and dying security 
arrangements. I believe that this is bound to happen when international relations are 
subordinated to opportunist considerations. Our concept is different from that of the 
Swatantra Party and the Jan Sangh; our policies are not governed by conditioned reflexes 
but by deeper considerations. The security of South and South-East Asia will not be made 
more secure by alliances or treaties. We believe that security will grow out of mutual 
cooperation and the growth of identity of interests, and on our part, we have been doing 
everything possible to explore all avenues of such mutual cooperation in economic and 


779 


other fields. We hope that when peace comes to Vietnam, the real security needs of the 
area will be seen more clearly. The main security 1s the strengthening of these countries, 
‘and I do not believe that they can be strengthened by any kind of foreign interference. 


Let us take a broad look at our external relations over the past year or so. Any objective 
observer will admit, and the overall impression that we got from the speeches of even those 
hon. Members who seem to oppose our policies was, that we have not been so badly off 
after all. With our two immediate and difficult neighbours, there has been no deterioration 
of relations. With Pakistan we are straining every nerve to effect some improvement and I 
have no doubt that we can succeed. Of course, it is not possible to have any spectacular 
or dramatic development. But we must work, we must make an attempt to work, together. 
Just now, the hon. Member, Shn Hem Barua, said something about having blind faith in 
the Tashkent agreement. It is not only that the Tashkent agreement is a matter of principle; 
it is mainly an instrument, through which the two countries could normalise their relations. 
We have had many difficulties in its implementation; we are far from implementing it 
perfectly or even in a large degree, but, nevertheless, I can say that we have proceeded a 
little bit in that direction. Some small steps have been taken and I personally feel that the 
atmosphere is better. But here again the responsibility lies on all of us. Because, being 
such close neighbours, having the type of contacts which we have had, having also the 
history of bitterness which we have had between us, any stray remark made by anybody 
can be exaggerated, misconstrued and lead to straining of relations. Therefore, this is a 
matter in which...(/nterruptions) we must all endeavour to try to improve the relations. 


Voices have been raised here on this occasion and on other occasions demanding that 
we should quit the Commonwealth. I am not insensitive to the feelings which impel such 
demands. As I have said on previous occasion, leaving the Commonwealth cannot be 
considered as a mere subjective response to any given situation. Historically speaking, we 
joined the Commonwealth at a time when the world was divided into two hostile and 
opposing camps. And it made sense that some countries which were not involved with 
either of these camps should get together and explore their own common interests. 
Subsequently, with the rising tide of liberation, more countries became free and they became 
members of the Commonwealth. Today there are 22 member States drawn from the areas 
extending from the Caribbean Sea to the Pacific and embracing all continents of this earth. 
It is true that the festering of the Rhodesian sore is poisoning Commonwealth relations 
and the longer it is allowed to do so, the more corrossive will be its influence on the health 
of the Commonwealth. We are aware of this and deeply concerned. So are other Members 
of the Commonwealth. We hope, however, that the collective wisdom of Members of the 
Commonwealth will help to solve this problem and to retain the multi-racial character of 
this association. 


With the U.S.A. and U.S.S.R., our contacts are increasing and our relations are 
developing very favourably in all fields. With the sister nations of Africa and of Asia there 
is, by and large, a record of progress. 


One hon. Member referred to black recialism. Racialism, whether it be black or white, 
is anathema to the civilised world. We here in India have a proud record of fighting 


780 


racialism in all its forms. We have done this not because of any moral sense of duty, but 
because we realise that the world cannot be stable if the political and economic conflicts 
are made more complex by a new dimension of racial conflicts. We shall continue to strive 
against racialism in all its manifestations. We have the friendliest of feelings for our 
breathren in Africa. We understand their difficulties many of which are due to the remnants 
of the old colonialism. We have to fight against this and we shall do so. 


In the Commonwealth we have had many ups and downs and yet, on the whole, here 
again, friendship and cooperation is growing. 


With the Socialist countries of Europe friendly ties continue to strengthen, especially, 
in the fields of economic and commercial. exchanges. West European countries have also 
shown friendship towards us in many ways which we have tried to reciprocate. 


Smt. Pandit made some thoughtful remarks. 


a ok मु ae ae kc mk ae of 


I was a little surprised to hear her suggesting that because of our relationship with 
England or the Commonwealth, we had neglected our relations with France. Far from it, 
Sir, in the last two years we have come much closer not only to the Government of France 
but also, if I might say so, with the people of France. My hon. friend interrupted just now 
to say that I was not here to hear her speech.* But I would like to tell him that I heard 
every word of all the speeches delivered before lunch. 


ae 2k + mK a मंद ae ak a 


Both with France and the Federal Republic of Germany our relations are advancing 
steadily. 


The countries of Latin America, though geographically distant, share many ideals with 
us and we hope to do more to know each other better and cooperate in various fields. But 
I realise that much more needs to be done and that in the past we have been a little aloof. 


Except for some minor disappointments and occasional irritations we can confidently 
say that we have moved steadily forward in our international relationships and contacts. 
What is more, we have strengthened our existing friendships and have built bridges to 
expand our relations with others. 


I should add that with our two neighbours on our western flank, we are establishing 
new relationships of mutual confidence and understanding. We were happy to welcome to 
Delhi, even though briefly, His Majesty the Shah of Iran, with whom we had a useful 
exchange of views which we are confident will lead to the strengthening of our relations 
in the future. With the Foreign Minister of Turkey also a wide spectrum of problems was 
discussed and I feel that we understand each other a little better now. Economic exchanges 
are developing very satisfactorily with both these countries and this will provide a sound 
framework for building up a relationship based on mutual confidence and respect. 


* In reply to a Member's remark, “But you were not here when she spoke.” 


781 


In Foreign Affairs there are no set positions. Some of these countries have not always 
been very friendly to us. I believe, that where there is friendship we must enlarge it, where 
‘there is indifference, we must remove it, and where there is hostility, we should try to 
blunt it. What are permanent are certain values and interests on which we cannot 
compromise. 


Now I come to China. Some hon. Member have spoken of cutting off relations with 
China altogether; on the other hand some have talked of raising them to Ambassadorial 
level. We have diplomatic relations with a large number of countries. In fashioning these 
relations, we do not look into the political and social composition of the Governments 
concerned. We believe that that is the responsibility of the people of the country concemed. 
What happens internally in other countries cannot be a subject-matter of public comment. 


The hon. Member, Shri Sondhi, criticised me for not giving a report on some of the 
countries of Eastern Europe. But if a dignitary visiting our country were to return and make 
a report on the internal affairs of India, I am sure that hon. Members would not be pleased. 
Our differences with China arose mainly from the fact that China is not prepared to accept 
this elementary code of international conduct. The day they accept it, we would have gone 
a long way towards normalising our relations. I have no doubt that through a process of 
trial and error, the Chinese Government will one day realise that the world is much too 
complex to be reduced to some uniform pattern however shining and bright that pattern 
might appear in the eyes of the hot gospellers of our present day world. 


Hon. Member, Shri Umanath, should understand a very simple and elementary 
proposition. It is that India’s social transformation can only be effected by the people of 
India themselves, in the light of their own history, tradition and experience. It will not be 
effected by Mao’s thoughts and little red books. 


A hardy annual which comes up with monotonous regularity concerns the functioning 
of our diplomatic missions abroad. The work of our missions must, of necessity, be 
performed quietly, without any fanfare or publicity. That is the very nature of diplomacy, 
involving a careful survey of the ground, meticulous preparation and discreet contacts and 
discussions. The fact that our relations with countries all over the globe have been advancing 
is due, in no small measure, to the silent efforts of our missions. Our Foreign Service had 
to be created from scratch and we had no precedents or previous experience to go by. Yet, 
our diplomats have established great reputation abroad and in all international gatherings 
their voices, raised on behalf of the country, are heard with attenuon. And some have 
been singled out for service on important international missions. 


The critics of our missions sometimes tend to judge their performance by impressions 
casually gathered during fleeting visits. Such judgements are fair neither to the cnitics 
themselves nor to our missions. Of course I must admit that there is always room for 
improvement and we are constantly trying to improve the performance of our missions. 


ae He oe aK aK मर me Oe ae 


782 


And, any incident or information that comes to the knowledge of hon. Members of 
Parliament is always useful to us in seeing how these Services and Missions can be 
improved. But when we talk of publicity abroad or of the image of India which our Missions 
are projecting, let us remember that we are dealing with sovereign independent States who 
have their own assessments of their national interests. They are not concerned with our 
national interests; they are concerned with what picture suits them and that is the picture 
which is normally projected in that country. 


Our task, therefore, is to seek their cooperation in matters where our interests converge 
as they do with many countries and to seek adjustment and accommodation wherever there 
are divergencies. 


This process is a continuing one in the capitals of the world. In criticising our missions, 
it seems that Shri Hem Barua would also hold the Government of India responsible for 
the misprints or mistakes of British newspapers ! 


Amongst the measures taken to obtain better performance has been our decision to 
make our Heads of Missions themselves responsible for public relations work as well as 
the promotion of economic relations. This should give a stimulus to our efforts to improve 
our trade situation and to establish solid economic ties with other countries. Public relations 
work needs an imaginative approach, and one cannot have any set rules. With our Heads 
of Missions paying personal attention, we hope that the impact will be greater. But as I 
have said before, our image abroad will inevitably be a reflection of our situation at home. 
We know, when we passed through a difficult period of food shortage last year, what a 
very bad image of India was projected all over the world. Now that the situation has 
improved that image also is a vastly improved one. We hope that the country will now 
present a picture of unity and not of division, of progress and not of stagnation, of 
purposeful activity and not of meaningless dissension. All this will condition and influence 
our external relations and what others think of us. 


I now come to the question with which not only Members of Parliament but the entire 
country seems to be deeply concerned. Almost everybody who spoke has spoken of the 
Non-Proliferation Treaty. I myself.... 


me aie ae aK aK मंद oie aft ah 


made a Statement on that subject in this House on the 14th March. That statement stands. 
I should like to assure the House that we shall be guided entirely by our enlightened self- 
interest and the considerations of national security and, of course, adherence to our values, 
as Shri D.C. Sharma has pointed out. 


We have already made it clear that the draft treaty in its present form does not fully 
conform to the principles enunciated in the General Assembly Resolution No. 2028 of the 


20th session. 


Mankind today is at the crossroads of nuclear peace and nuclear war. There can be no 
doubt that we should take the road to nuclear peace. But the first step in this direction is 


783 


not yet in sight. It is vitally important, therefore, for the nuclear weapons powers to 
undertake as soon as possible meaningful negotiations on a series of measures leading to 
nuglear disarmament. The present draft treaty acknowledges the need for such negotiations, 
but unfortunately, the non-participation by some nuclear weapon powers will make it only 
partially effective, and what is more, the other nucléar weapon powers insist on their right 
to continue to manufacture more nuclear weapons. This is a situation which cannot be 
viewed with equanimity by non-nuclear countries, especially as they are called upon to 
undertake not to manufacture or acquire nuclear weapons for their own defence. 


At the same time, we have stated that the Government of India do not propose to 
manufacture nuclear weapons. This 1s a decision taken many years ago and is unrelated to 
the treaty on non-proliferation of nuclear weapons. We shall continue our efforts for nuclear 
disarmament because it is only through nuclear disarmament that discrimination would 
be eliminated and equality between nations re-established. 


The draft treaty on non-proliferation of nuclear weapons will now be discussed by the 
resumed session of the General Assembly towards the end of April this year. Several 
amendments have already been proposed by some non-nuclear countries and there may 
be more to come. These amendments will receive our careful consideration, and we shall 
continue to impress upon the nuclear powers the need for a balanced and non-discriminatory 
treaty. 


The issue before us in essentially a political one. And it also has serious implications 
as regards security matters. The treaty and all its implications are under continuous study 
and the Government will give careful thought to the views of Members as expressed in 
this House. 


All parties, with the exception of the hon. Member Shri M.R. Masani, have generally 
supported the stand taken by the Government of India in not signing the treaty in its present 


form. Government are fully aware of the serious issues involved. I would again assure the - 


House that in any decision taken, the best interests of the country and of world peace will 
guide and inform our deliberations. 


At the same time. I should also like to warn the House and the country that not signing 
the treaty may bring the nation many difficulties. It may mean the stoppage of aid and the 
stoppage of help.... 


hk HK और ae ae 
That was just what I was going to say.* Since we are taking this decision together, we 
must all be together in facing its consequences. I personally think that although it may 


involve sacrifice and hardship, it will be the first step towards building the real strength 
of this country and we shall be able to go ahead on the road to self-sufficiency. 


* Referring to Shri M.L. Sondhi’s remark, “Freedom was won with sacrifices.” 


784 


The hon. Member Shri V. Krishnamoorthi’s speech showed a recognition that foreign 
policy concerns and touches our national interests and should not, therefore, be viewed in 
terms of party politics. I earnestly hope that this trend will gain wider acceptance and will 
govern our attitude towards our foreign policy. 


I would now commend for the acceptance of the House the Demands for Grants placed 
before them and express the hope that the various cut motions would not be pressed. 


785 


हम te 
11 आह] 


न ०० ०1०१० 
७» «५ «१००१०. 
wea 
AN 


weet ae! 
wre ate Te ote 


Pete ee 
wie ae oe 
waaay 
Merete ysl 


vate न "तन न 


india and West Asia* 


Mr. Speaker, Sir, nearly two weeks ago, my collegue, the Minister of External Affairs, 
made a statement in this House giving Government’s assessment of the explosive situation 
in West Asia and expressing our deep concern at the developments that were taking place 
there. 


Since then, our efforts in the Security Council as well as outside have been concentrated 
on counselling moderation and lessening of tension and preservation of peace in that area. 
Our representative in the Security Council in consultation with the non-permanent members 
of the Council and others made earnest endeavours to formulate a resolution which might 
be acceptable to the Council. The resolution aimed at supporting the Secretary General’s 
recommendations contained in his reports to the Council and earmestly appealing to all 
parties concerned to exercise restraint in order to avoid actions which might aggravate 
tension. Our Representative met with favourable response and it was hoped that in the 
next meeting of the Security Council, significant progress would be made in this regard. 


While these efforts were still continuing, news came yesterday moming of an outbreak 
of hostilities between Israel and the U.A.R. and other Arab countries. 


The Secretary General of the United Nations made a report to the Emergency Meeting 
of the Security Council yesterday, in which he gave an account of various reports by the | 
UNEF Commander and the U.N. Observers on the UN Truce Supervision Organisation 
and Mixed Armistic Commissions, of attacks by Israeli air craft on U.A.R. and Syrian 
terntory. 


I do not wish to utter harsh words or use strong language. But on the basis of 
information available there can be no doubt that Israel has escalated the situation into an 
armed conflict, which has now acquired the proportions of a full scale war. 


The world today faces a disastrous war in West Asia. The armed forces of Israel and 
those of U.A.R.. and other Arab countries are locked in combat, and the situation becomes 
graver by the hour. If not stopped, this war is likely to expand into a much wider one, 
drawing into its vortex other countries and developing perhaps into a world war. World 
peace is in grave peril. Our own national interests are bound up with peace are stability in 
West Asia. I do not need to expand on this or to describe the horrors and consequences of 


* Statement regarding developments in West Asia, L.S. Deb., 6 June, 1967, cc. 3292-95, 3314-18, 3321-22. 


such a war in West Asia. It is our solemn duty as a Government as also that of the 
hon. Members of Parliament to help in the restoration of peace in the present perilous 
situation. It is the bounden duty of all countries, large and small, to work towards this 
end. 


In the Security Council we are making eamest efforts for a ceasefire and withdrawal 
of all armed forces to the positions they occupied on June 4th. We shall presevere in these 
efforts. 


Hon. Members have no doubt learnt with deep resentment of the wanton Isarel artillery 
attack and subsequent strafings by Israel aircraft resulting in the death and injury of a 
number of personnel of the Indian UNEF contingent in Gaza. These attacks were deliberate 
and without provocation inspite of clear and unmistakable UN markings and identification 
of our contingent. 


I have addressed a message to the Secretary General of the United Nations on this 
subject, expressing our grief and indignation at these incidents and I have asked for effective 
steps to be taken to ensure their safety and early evacuation from the area of hostilities. 
Five of our soldiers have died and several have been wounded. There can be no justification 
for Israel armed forces to have attacked our forces, whose whereabouts, indentification 
markings and intention to withdraw were clearly known to the Israeli authorities. 


Government will naturally give adequate compensation to the families of five soldiers 
who have lost their lives and we shall make sure that the amount is not less than what 
they would have received had these men lost their lives in active combat. Meanwhile, I 
am sending a sum of Rs. 25,000/, i.e. Rs. 5,000/- per family, by way of immediate assistance 
to the bereaved families from the Prime Minister’s National Relief Fund. 


I am sure the House will unreservedly condemn this cowardly attack on our men, who 
have been sentinels of peace in West Asia. The Secrétary General has lodged a strong protest 
with the Israel Government. I should like on behalf of the whole House, to convey our 
deep sympathies and condolences to the bereaved families of our soldiers who have 
gallantly laid down their lives in the service of humanity and 1n the cause of peace. 


He और afc me aK अर me aie a 


Sir, I was very glad to learn that all Members have supported the stand, we have taken 
at the United Nations.... 


me hc a ae a ae मं कर 


With reservations*. Even so, their conditional support is welcome. I am sure that if 
this resolution can get through, it will be a big step forward in the interest of peace in that 


arca. 


* Replying to a Member who quipped : “With reservation’. 


787 


Bae eer) 
en eae 


Cae ot 
oh हट 
हब कर पा 
12१8 5 
पक 


आन जात, 


Certain points were made by hon. Members. Firstly, it was asked: why was the statement 
made at this time, should we not have taken a more—I forget the word used, perhaps 
_ neutral’ was the word.... 


ae मं मं ae he a ae a मं 


Well, cautious*. Now, India has existed as an independent nation for about 20 years. 
We have not made our mark in the world by being cautious. We have made our mark in 
the world by taking a firm stand where justice was concerned, where peace was concerned. 
Non-alignment has never meant that we should be neutral. In fact, in all forums of the 
world we have deplored the use of the word ‘neutral’ as a definition of non-alignment. 
Non-alignment does not mean neutrality. No thinking person can remain uninvolved with 
what is happening. We cannot. Even when we were not free, when we were not in a position 
to help other nations, we did speak up against injustice where it existed....(Interruptions). 
I hope the hon. Members will try to study the entire situation. 


Some reference has been made here as to what has led to this situation. Shri Prakash 
Vir Shastri has asked whether it was the U.A.R. action in Aqaba or anything else which 
caused this. It goes much further back and I do not think that it helps now to go into any 
of the steps as he has suggested just now. 


The foreign policy which we have formulated, what we have said here today, or the 
foreign policy which we are pursuing is part of the foreign policy which this nation has 
adhered to in the past years. 


ae He ae mK मं a ae 2K ak 


Mr. Speaker, as you yourself were here, you have heard the speeches from the other 
side and you have seen that they have not spoken with one voice. Therefore, they cannot 
say that this divided opinion is the voice of the nation...(/nterruptions). I believe that the 
policy followed by the Government of India was firmly supported by the nation. It has 
certainly given us a position in the world, it has enabled us to intervene in many a situation 
and to bring about peace in a manner which I think no other nation has been able to bring 
about. No matter what the Members of the opposition may say, these are facts of history 
which they cannot now change. 


ee मं oe a ae ae मंद ae 


Whatever policy we follow, is in the national interest. It is not followed because of a 
vague whim just in the air. It is followed in the interest of our nation, the economic and 
political interests of our nation. 


With regard to the shipment of food to India, naturally, if the Suez Canal is blocked 
and, we believe, it has been blocked, there will be dislocation and delay and there will be 
difficulty. But this will not substantially affect our rice supply a much of it comes from 
the other direction. Some quantity is due from U.A.R. and Spain. This will be delayed as 


* Responding to a Member's remark, “Cautious”. 


specially Spanish ships will have to go round the Cape of Good Hope. Wheat and milo 
will also be affected. But I do not think this situation will have any grave repercussions 


One point which several hon. Members have made here and which they had.made to 
me earlier on when we met is regarding the statement which is alleged to have been made 
about the destruction of Israel. I have said so before and I have no hesitation in saying so 
again that we do not stand for the destruction of any nation. 


ae hc मु ae ec a मै ak के 
The other question was regarding the attitude of the Arab countries and more 


specifically of the U.A.R. during our own troubles here.... 


मे मं मंद HK और aK मं 


With regard to U.A.R. during the Chinese aggression, the U.A.R. Presidential Council 
made a public statement in which the U.A.R. proposed cease-fire and withdrawal of the 
Chinese forces to the 8th September position.... 


me अर a at oi ak ae he कु 


I have only one or two points to make. It is about the evacuation of our men from 
Gaza. In accordance with the agreement between the United Nations and the seven 
participating countries, the withdrawal of the Indian contingent in Gaza is the responsibility 
of the United Nations. It was arranged with the Secretary General that an Indian ship will 
sail on the 8th June for the withdrawal of the evacuees. India was willing to withdraw the 
Indian contingent earlier, but the U.N. expressed their inability to agree to evacuation by 
air. Once again I have, in my message to the Secretary General, asked him to try and get 
them away from the fighting zone: if they cannot come to India, they may at least be 
removed away from the area of hostilities as soon as possible. 


ae मु mf afc ae aie मंद ae 


... The point is whether we should say anything and what we should say at a given 
moment, and whether we should take sides or not. I think that we have made a very genuine 
effort to be objective, and I think that an objective presentation of the facts of the situation 
can help in the restoration of peace especially in a perilous situation. It does not help peace 
to sit on the fence and not to take a definite viewpoint, and this is why we have taken it. 
As I said, simultaneously we have taken a step at the United Nations. I sincerely hope 
that we be successful in our resolution. We shall always encourage any step which will 
lead to a cessation of the fighting there and the restoration of real peace. 


789 


eee eed 


eT ee 


Territorial Dimension of Indo-Pak Relations : 
Construction of Mangla Dam* 


Sir, while overflying West Pakistan on my way to Moscow, as 18 customary, I sent a 
message of greetings to the President of Pakistan. I expressed the hope that the successful 
conclusion of the talks on the restoration of telecommunications would lead to further 
progress in our mutual relations. I also conveyed my congratulations on the completion of 
the Mangla Dam. This did not imply any departure from our stand as to the status of the 
territory of the State of Jammu and Kashmir on the other side of the cease-fire line. 


The Indus Waters Treaty was signed by India and Pakistan in September, 1960. It was 
placed before the Lok Sabha in November, 1960 and ratified in December, 1960. As 
provided in the preamble, the treaty had for its aim; and I quote: 


the most complete and satisfactory utilisation of the waters of the Indus system of rivers. 


by India and Pakistan. Accordingly, the treaty allocated the waters of the three western 
rivers, that is, Indus, Jhelum and the Chenab, to Pakistan and those of the Sutlej, Ravi and 
the Beas to India. As provided in article [V(I) of the treaty, and I quote : 


Pakistan shall use its best endeavours to construct and bring into operation with due 
regard to expedition and economy that part of a system of works which will accomplish 
the replacement from the western rivers and other sources of water supplies for irrigation 
canals in Pakistan which on 15th August, 1947 were dependent on water supplies from 
the eastern rivers. 


Under the aegis of the World Bank, an Indus Development Fund was set up to which 
a number of countries contributed funds for the replacement works as envisaged in the 
treaty and for connected development works. Under the treaty, India undertook to make a 
fixed contribution towards the cost of the replacement works in Pakistan. 


On the completion of the Mangla Dam, more water will be available to Pakistan which 
in turn will also enable India to make additional withdrawals from the eastern rivers for 
her own use. The Indian Commissioner appointed under the terms of the treaty has been 
periodically visiting the dam site along with his Pakistani counterpart. This fact has been 


* Statement in response to a Calling Attention about the Prime Minister's message to President Ayub Khan of 
Pakistan congratulating him on the completion of the Mangla Dam, L.S. Deb., 15 November, 1967. cc. 716-32. 


mentioned in the annual reports of the Indus Commission which were placed on the Table 
of the House on June 16, 1962 and August 18, 1965. The Indian Commissioner is now 
discussing the extent of the withdrawals which India can make because of the earlier 
completion of the Mangla Dam and other works. 


The Mangla Dam is located on the international border between the Indian territory of 
the Jammu and Kashmir State in the occupation of Pakistan and that of West Pakistan. 
Our protests which relate to a period prior to the conclusion of the Indus Waters Treaty of 
1960 were intended to safeguard our sovereign rights over the territory involved. The treaty 
itself safeguards these rights under article XI(1) (b) as follows : 


Nothing contained in this treaty and nothing arising out of the execution thereof shall 
be construed as constituting a recognition or waiver (whether tacit, by implication or 
otherwise), of any rights or claims whatsoever of either of the parties other than those 
rights or claims which are expressly recognised or waived in this treaty. 


On the 16th November, 1959, Prime Minister Nehru said in the Lok Sabha in reply to 
supplementary questions on starred question No. 2 regarding the Mangla Dam and I quote 


...the hon. Member is correct in thinking that it (Mangla Dem) may be connected 
with the canal water issue. In that sense, there is no question of any dispute; the dispute 
is about Kashmir, if you like. The other is the question of an arrangement about canal 
waters, about which we are dealing with Pakistan... 


...there are two parts of this matter. One is a question that arises over our territory in 
Kashmir State even though that might now be occupied by Pakistan, and our claim 
that they should not do anything on the territory which is ours. That is one question 
which is part of the Kashmir issue. The other question is connected with the canal 
waters, as to the best use that might be made of canal waters for India and for Pakistan. 
In that connection, the US Government and the World Bank, and perhaps various other 
governments, are, at the instance of the World Bank, offering considerable sums of 
money to Pakistan. That is not our concern—what money they offer to Pakistan in 
connection with the development of their canal system. 


The position of the Government of India was reiterated in this House, in answer to 
questions, on several occasions, viz. on 17th February, 1960 and 30th November, 1960 by 
Prime Minister Nehru, and on 31st August, 1961 by his Parliamentary Secretary. There 
has been no departure whatsoever from that position. 


The construction of the Mangla Dam has aroused much international interest not only 
because of the financial contributions made by a number of foreign countries but also as 
an engineering feat. A number of Foreign dignitaries are expected to be present at the 
opening of the Dam. The completion of this irrigation system will now benefit millions of 
human beings in our neighbours country and also in our own as it will enable us to draw 


more water for Punjab, Haryana and Rajasthan. 


791 


I should like to end by recalling that it has been our firm conviction that India and 
Pakistan can cooperate with each other in a meaningful way for the benefit of our respective 
peoples.* 


ac a aie मे 3c a ae ae मं 


I have stated very clearly, our nghts remain inviolable.** That is made quite clear in 
my statement. It also stands embodied in the Indus Waters Treaty. 


I did state that there has been no change in our position. I can go on repeating it as 
many times as you like. As I have already explained, the protests relate to a period prior 
to the signing of the Indus Waters Treaty.. The protests were made, as Shn Nath Pai has 
pointed out, in the years 1957, 1958 and 1959. When the Indus Waters Treaty was signed 
in 1960, the Treaty itself contained a provision safeguarding our sovereign right on the 
territory involved, which the protests were intended to protect. Therefore, our position in 
regard to the Kashmir question is in no way compromised. It is fully safeguarded, as 1 
have said already two or three times, by article XI (I) (9) of the Indus Waters Treaty. I do 
not think we are now discussing the merits or demerits of the Indus waters Treaty, Which 
has been discussed in this House on many an occasion. Here I should like to read out what 
Shastriji stated on that occasion when this subject was discussed here. He said : 


“Under that situation, we should not do any such things which may put us in a wrong 
or false position or it may be said that we are not even supplying water to them. Pakistan 
may Say that India is not supplying water to them, then what is wrong with them if 
they demand Kashmir? + 


We have to view this question in the wider context. I can understand emotions being 
aroused and I can also sympathize with them. As the House knows, I have been very closely 
connected with the independence struggle of Kashmir from an early date. 


me ae कं मं कं क॑ ae 3 I 


Pakistan has occupied certain areas of Indian territory. We have made clear what we 
feel about this and also our intention of taking back Indian territory. In this position, there 
is no change. The building of the Mangla Dam does not change this 1n any way.... 


a ak के ae मर ak Hk मे 


It has not changed.*** On the contary, it has been accepted on thc Indus Waters Treaty, 
as I read out here. This does not, in any way constitute a recognition of a waiver of our 


* In response to a Calling Attention on the same subject in Rajya Sabha, the Prime Minister, Smt. Indira Gandhi 
made an identical Statement there also and thereafter answered the questions asked by members. 
(R.S. Deb., 23 November, 1967, cc. 822-38) 

** Replying to Shri Nath Pai who inter-alia remarked : “So far as effort is concerned to improve relations I think we 
will all agree, but we do not want anybody’s friendship at the cost of India’s territorial sovereignty...” 

1 Translated from Hindi. 


*** Responding to a Member's remark. “It has changed now.” 


792 


rights or claims. Therefore, this position is very clear and unambiguous. (Interruption). In 
our eyes that territory remains Indian territory. As I said, what is involved here is the much 
wider question as to how we deal with these matters, whether it is a question only of talking 
about it or whether something else can be done about it.... 


He a a aH a a मर 


From the beginning, it is a question of how one deals with another nation or another 
person. It does not mean giving up one’s rights or, in any way, weakening one’s case. Surely, 
nobody can think Gandhiji was weak on any issue. When it came to a question of making 
payments to Pakistan in the middle of a conflict, he insisted that we should pay our share. 
Similarly, during the last conflict, Shastriji approved of the payment of our instalment. 
So, what I am saying is that nothing new has happened. We have had a particular outlook. 
We are determined not to say anything which might prejudice our national interest in any 
way. On this, we all stand solid. But on the other hand, we must not say anything that 
provides grist to the mill of Pakistani propaganda.... 


793 


Plight of Indians in the Indian Enclaves in East Pakistan’ 


Mr. Chairman, there are 123 Indian enclaves in East Pakistan with an area of some 
29.4 square miles against 74 Pakistani enclaves with an area of about 18.4 square miles in 
West Bengal. Under the Nehru-Noon Agreement of 1958, these enclaves are to be 
exchanged. The Constitution Amendment Act of 1960 and Acquired Territories Merger 
Act of 1960 provided for the exchange of the enclaves after demarcation. But no exchange 
has so far taken place owing to Pakistan’s insistence that demarcation on the East Pakistan/ 
West Bengal border should take place simultaneously with the demarcation of Beruban, 
which is itself pending the result of a petition before get the Calcutta High Court whose 
judgement is awaited. 


Subsequent to the Indo-Pak conflict of 1965, the Government of India have suggested 
to the Pakistan Government, the reciprocal grant of facilities for the sending of police parties 
to these enclaves. A reply from the Pakistan Government is awaited. 


According to a report of the Government of West Bengal in August 1967, the condition 
of our nationals in the Indian enclaves is insecure owing to the activities of certain Pakistani 
elements in the areas surrounding the enclaves. 


The Government of India are continuing their efforts to persuade the Pakistan 
Government to agree to the sending of police parties to the enclaves on a reciprocal basis. 


ME ae a We ae ae ae a oe 


Sir, the hon. Member** is perfectly correct in saying that we have not been able to 
give adequate protection to these areas, and that is why we are pursuing our efforts to 
come to some agreeinent about them. As a reciprocal measure we are not allowing the 
Pakistan Government to replace their policemen who are stationed in their enclaves. 


As far as the rehabilitation of refugees, is concerned, we take a vcry sympathetic view 
and are considering the help that can be given. This matter is under the consideration of 
our Ministry of Rehabilitation. 


ae oe fe ae ae ak ae मै a 


* Replying to the Calling Attention regarding ‘Distress of the Indian Citizens in Indian Enclaves within the territory 
of East Pakistan”, R.S. Deb., 28 November, 1967, cc. 1501-04. 
** Shri Chitta Basu. 


Pete ene hs 


As I said, no agreement was reached on any of these matters, and now one of the reasons 
which are holding up the sending of our police party is that the present West Bengal 
Government had wished to change the positioning of our party—First our police station 
was in another place, in Kota, Bajni. Shri Ajoy Mukerjee’s Government wished to change 
it to Salabari because from there it could be easier to keep in touch with them and it would 
be easier for the police party to function from there, but the Pakistan Government has not 
yet replied. We are awaiting a reply from them and we are pursuing the matter. 


a मंप के we ok at me के ae 


Sir, I am not sure whether they were able to come to vote or not but the whole question 
of the exchange of these people is held up because of the Berubari case.* so far as the 
voting is concerned, I can find out and let the hon. Member know about it. 


Hot at se ak ae aha 


Government is taking every step possible to help in improving conditions there. We 
do take reciprocal steps, and they have been, as I had spoken earlier, about the police party 
and so on. The last question that was asked by another hon. Member was with regard to 
the Cooch Behar Refugees Association. We have had some reports that they submitted a 
memorandum to the West Bengal Government making various requests. But we are still 
awaiting the comments of the West Bengal Government . 


* Replying to Shri Chitta Basu’s question: “What arrangements were made by the Government of India to ensure 
facilities for the Indian voters living in Indian enclaves within the Pakistan Territory to cast their vote and thereby 


exercise thei franchise...” 


India, Pakistan and West Germany* 


Sir, some time ago, Several Pakistani newspapers carried reports alleging that a West 
German spokesman in Islamabad had said that West Germany supported the principle of 
self-determination in Kashmir. The Pakistan High Commission in New Delhi also issued 
a press release on November 28, 1967 and I quote: 


Rawalpindi, November 28: A West German spokesman said here last evening that West 
Germany favoured the settlement of the Kashmir dispute on the principle of justice 
and on the basis of self-determination 


We naturally made enquiries from our High Commission in Islamabad and from the 
Embassay of the Federal Republic of Germany in New Delhi about the truthfulness of 
these reports. 


Our High Commission जा Islamabad has informed us that the statement in the Pakistan 
High Commission’s press release was based neither on the joint communique issued at 
the conclusion of Chancellor Kiesinger’s visit to Pakistan nor on the statement of any West 
German Spokesman in Islamabad. The Embassy of the Federal Republic of Germany in 
New Delhi has categorically affirmed that the reported statement was not made by any 
member of the West German delegation. 


We have examined the joint communique issued summarising the results of the talks 
between Chancellor Kiesinger and President Ayub Khan in Islamabad. The only reference 
to Kashmir in the joint communique appears in paragraph 6 which I shall read out. I quote: 


The President of Pakistan explained to the Chancellor the situation with regard to Indo- 
Pakistan relations. In this connection he expressed his Government’s concern at the 
growing military imbalance in the Sub-continent and reaffirmed his Government’s 
desire to seek a peaceful and honourable solution of all disputes with India, including 
the dispute of Jammu and Kashmir. The Chancellor took note of Pakistan’s position 
and expressed the hope that these disputes would be peacefully resolved. 


It is clear that the German Chancellor merely took note of Pakistan’s position and 
expressed the hope that these disputes would be peacefully resolved. This is in consonance 
with the Tashkent Declaration. 


* Statement and reply in response to a Calling Attention on the reported flight of Chancellor Kiesinger over Pakistan 
occupied part of Kashmir, R.S. Deb., 7 December, 1967, cc. 2958-78. 


Mr. Chairman, Sir, may I now deal with another question. It is about the route followed 
by the aircraft carrying the German party. 


We have been informed that there was a proposal for Chancellor Kiesinger to visit 
Gilgit. This was not accepted. Later, on the 27th November, a sight-seeing flight to Nanga 
Parbat and K-2 was planned. As the House is aware, Nanga Parbat was first climbed by 
a German expedition. Since then the Germans have been interested in this mountain. This 
flight was cancelled because of bad weather. On the 28th November on their way from 
Rawalpindi to Lahore, the West German party was flown to Nanga Parbat and K-2. 
According to our information, the West Germans were not told that they would be flying 
over Gilgit, Hunza or Skardu and they have assured us that the flight was solely for purposes 
of sight-seeing and that it had no political significance. 


Hon. Members are familiar with the general behaviour pattern of the press in Pakistan. 
Every time an important visitor goes to that country, an attempt is made to distort his 
statements and actions. I doubt if the world is misled by such antics.* 


मर मंद मर मर मर मं ee मं 


TSir, our attention has been drawn towards the issue of these maps and we are 
examining the issue.** We have not received all the replies yet. We do not know whether 
the German Government is involved in it or not. As I said, we have enquired from them, 
but we have not received any reply so far. 


As far as the route of their flight is concerned, I have already said in my statement 
that when the fact that their aeroplane was flying over Gilgit, etc. was brought to their 
notice, they denied it. Later on they said that they did not know that their aeroplane was 
flying over that territory. 


Hk मर CK of ak ae 


I am not at all clear about the hon. Member’s*** question. He has given some very 
useful information. The figures may be correct about Pakistan’s strength and he is also 
absolutely correct in saying that India has no aggressive intention and that we are only 
concerned with preparing ourselves to defend our country. It is, I think, the duty of the 
Government and the people to be fully prepared for defence. Whenever any visitors come 
here, we put the facts of the situation before them so that they are fully aware of our stand 
and also of the threat which is posed on our borders by Pakistan and China. 


HHO He हर मै मंध् मं मर 


* An identical Statement was made by the Prime Minister, Smt. Indira Gandhi, in Lok Sabha also. 
(L.S. Deb., 8 December, 1967, cc. 5734-46.) 


+ Translated from Hindi. 
** Replying to Shri Rajnarain’s remarks about the reported circulation of some maps in the West Germany in which 
Kashmir had been shown a separate territory, and not as integral part of India, and Sikkim and Bhutan as the 
Chinese territories. 


*** Shri A.M. Tariq. 


797 


In these matters* we have to go by the Government’s statement, and what the 
- Government says. When Chancellor Kiesinger was here, we talked to him about all these 
matters and he made his position quite clear. 


The other question which the hon. Member** has raised is about East Germany. As 
the hon. Members know, the German question is a complicated one and 1s mixed up with 
the whole question of European security. We have always tried to take the view that we 
should not take any action or any position which would introduce further complications 
in an already difficult situation. It has been our policy to develop further trade and cultural 
relations with East Germany and these have grown in recent years. 


aK ak ak ae aft भर मं कं मर 


Sir, I did not say that I shall now enquire.*** What I said to the first questioner**** 
was that we have already made enquiries about this matter but we have not yet received a 
reply. This is one part of the question. The second is—I do not think that it is right to mix 
up the question of the maps with that of the flight over Gilgit; these are two entirely different 
matters, and I do not think they should be mixed up. To our knowledge nobody has yet 
said that any missiles were supplied to Pakistan during the conflict. But what Shri Arjun 
Arora said in the last part of his question is true in this sense that some Sabre jets were 
supplied by West Germany to Iran and from Iran they have gone to Pakistan. Our 
Government had protested about this to the West Germans and they had assured us that 
the supply was made to Iran and that it was intended for Iran, and also that they would do 
everything possible to get the planes back to Iran. 


मै मं a mE oh IK MH और 


The first point which was made by the hon. Member***** is whether we have any 
knowledge that Pakistan asked for arms from West Germany. I think, as the hon. Member 
Shri Bhupesh Gupta, has said, it is possible that they did ask for it. But we have no definite 
information. As far as we know, the Germans had said to us here that they would not send 
arms to any area of tension. 


Now the other question was about Pakistan’s response with regard to the normalisation 
of relations between our two countries. It is true that the relations are not satisfactory, but 
nevertheless a small beginning towards normalisation was made in the Telecommunications 
Agreement which was made recently, and I think it is in our interest to pursue this matter. 


ae ae a ak a ae ae मंद और 


* Relating to the reference of ‘military imbalance’ in tne subcontinent made in the Joint Communique issued at the 
conclusion of talks between Chancellor Kiesinger and President Ayub Khan in Islamabad. 
** Shri Bhupesh Gupta. 
*** Refers to the reported circulation of some maps in West Germany. 
**** Shri Rajnarain. 
*ee8* Shri Chitta Basu. 


| tHon. Member* is aware of our stand. The occupation of territory by Pakistan is illegal 
since that territory belongs to us. 


Sir, with your permission, I want to say one thing. As Shri Arjun Arora and Shri 
Paliwalji have asked about the map, I would like to say that when we enquired from them 
in this regard, they replied that the map of 1963 was not an official map, some private 
firm had issued it and it had nothing to do with the Government of West Germany. 


me भंध मु ac गंध मे HK मर 


Sir, normally these matters are not taken up with Heads of Governments but through 
the concerned Embassies. That is why we took it up through our Embassies, with the High 
Commission in Pakistan and with the German Embassy here and they both assured us that 
they would look into the matter. 


aie मर ae afc afc ak a IE मर 


As I said, we took it up with the High Commissioner there and also here and in Bonn. 
The German Embassy has taken the matter up with the Pakistan High Commissioner and 
we have been told that they are considering what further action they should take. 


a a a a a गंध me a oe 


I do not think the flight has in any way affected the relations between India and Pakistan. 
If there are not good relations, if there is tension between us, it is due entirely to other 
causes. What was the other question** ? Yes, I remember. I have already expressed myself 
on East Germany. We have friendly relations with them and we are increasing our trade 
and other connections with them. 


a 3 ae me 2c मं me i a 


I have already replied to these questions. With the exception of one i.e. whether 
Chancellor Kiesinger had protested. Well, I have no knowledge about this. 


ae मं mic ae जुर a He a 


We are very very grateful to all those countries which supported us in our time of 
difficulty. The House is fully aware that East Germany did support us but I do not think it 
is right to say that West Germany was against us. 


मंध् मंद मै ek ok ae aca 


+The hon. Member*** is right in his submission that West Germany has made some 
changes in their policy. 


ec a ae a ae ah a 


1 Translated from Hindi. 
* Shri Triloki-Singb. 
** Of Shri Niren Ghosh. 
*** Shri Godey Murahari. 


The Kutch Award* 


Mr. Speaker, Sir, the International Tnbunal to determine the border between India and 
Pakistan in the Gujarat-West Pakistan area, delivered its Award at Geneva yesterday. 
Government have not yet received this Award. My statement is therefore based on the 
message received from our Consulate-General in Geneva. 


ek भर aK 2h ae ate Hc गैर 


The constitution of the Tribunal and the Award flows from the Indo-Pakistan Agreement 
on the Gujarat-West Pakistan border concluded on June 30, 1965. That Agreement was 
laid on the Table of the House by Prime Minister Shastri on August 16, 1965, along with 
his statement. The House discussed this statement on the Agreement and on August 18, 
1965, adopted the following resolution :-- 


“This House, having considered the statement laid on the Table of the House by the 
Prime Minister on the 16th August, 1965, on the Indo-Pakistan Agreement of June, 
1965 relating to Gujarat—West Pakistan border, approve of it.” 


It is not necessary to take the time of the House to recapitulate the Agreement which 
now forms part of the records of the House. 


a a के We a ae Kc He 


In accordance with the terms of the Agreement, India nominated Ambassador, Ales 
Bebler, Judge of the Constitutional Court of Yugoslavia, Pakistan nominated Ambassador 
Nasrollah Entzam of Iran and the Secretary-General of the United Nations appointed Judge 
Gunnar Lagergren of the Stockholm Court of Appeals, Sweden. 


I should like to recall what was stated in this House by Prime Minister Lal Bahadur 
Shastri explaining the function of the Tnbunal, and I quote :— 


I would like to state what is to be determined by negotiations or by the verdict of the 
Tribunal is not of any new boundary between India and Pakistan. That is not the claim 
of either of the two countries. What is to be determined is the boundary which came 
into being as a result of the partition of the country and the accession of the State of 
Kutch of India.... 


Thus, the Award of the Tribunal was intended to settle the boundary between the former 
State of Kutch and the Province of Sind as it existed at the time of Partition. 


* Statement regarding the ‘Kutch Award’, L.S. Deb., 20 February, 1968, cc. 2154-56. 


The preparation and presentation of India’s case was entrusted to a team of eminent 
Counsel. The Attorney-General of India, Shri C.K. Daphtary was the leading Counsel, the 
others being Shri N. C. Chatterji, M.P., and Shri N.A. Palkhiwala, Senior Advocates of 
the Supreme Court, and Shri J.M. Thakhore, Advocate-General of Gujarat. The Counsel 
had the assistance of a team of officers headed by Shri B.N. Lokur, Law Secretary to the 
Government of India. Hundreds of files, maps, books and reports were examined by our 
team which spared no effort in preparing and presenting our case before the Tribunal, which 
it did with great ability and thoroughness. 


The claim of Pakistan was that the boundary lay roughly along the 24th parallel; in 
other words, Pakistan laid claim to half the Great Rann of Kutch, with an area of some 
3500 sq. miles. We had contended that the entire Rann was a part of India and the boundary 
lay roughly along the northern edge of the Rann. The Tribunal has unanimously rejected 
the Pakistani claim that the border lies along the 24th parallel. One member of the Tribunal 
has upheld our claim, while the other two members have upheld it with modifications in 
some sectors of the boundary. By a majority, the Tribunal has held that about 3200 sq. 
miles lies on our side of the boundary while about 300 sq. miles of the territory claimed 
by Pakistan lies on the Pakistan side of the boundary. 


Mr. Speaker, Sir, I am conscious of the anxiety of the hon. Members and, indeed, of 
the country as a whole. I share this concern. This is a grave matter. Government are awaiting 
the full text which will be fully examined. Then, we shall be in a better position to make a 
fuller statement.... (/nterruptions).* 


* An identical Statement was made by the Prime Minister Smt. Indira Gandhi in Rajya Sabha also, 
(R.S. Deb., 20 February, 1968, CC. 1249—51). 


801 


Indo-Pak Relations : Settlement of Boundary Disputes* 


Government have seen newspaper reports of the Radio Pakistan broadcast on 8th March 
1968 to the effect that India was in illegal possession of what it called a “sizable chunk” 
of Pakistani territory near Rangpur District in the Chilahati Sector. 


Presumably, the reference is to an area of about 512 acres in Chilahati village. The 
position about this area was explained in the House by the then Prime Minister on 29th 
November 1963. It was pointed out on that occasion, and I quote :— 


The West Bengal Government had themselves intimated to us in 957 that 512 acres of 
Chilahati village of Debiganj Thana were adversely held territory. 


In the same statement, it was also pointed out that, I quote again :— 


This question of the status of the Chilahat village and of the area of 512 acres of this 
village adversely held by West Bengal Government since the Partition, has no 
connection with the Indo-Pakistan Agreement on the boundary dispute concerning 
Berubari. The demarcation, so far as Chilahati area is concerned, follows the Radcliffe 
Award, which states that the international boundary in this region ‘shall then continue 
along the Northern corner of the Thana Debiganj’. 


The boundary in this region has not yet been demarcated and the area has been in our 
possession. 


In 1964, some residents of Berubari and the adjacent areas of Chilahatt, filed a petition 
in the Calcutta High Court contending that the area in question was not the North-east 
corner of Debiganj Thana, but was really a part of Jalpaiguri Thana and was thus a part of 
India. The Calcutta High Court rejected this contention. On appeal, the High Court 
Judgement was upheld by the Supreme Court in August 1965. 


The Directors of Land Records and Surveys of West Bengal and East Pakistan had 
agreed to undertake demarcation in the Chilahati area. The work was expected to commence 
in November last year but no progress could be made since the East Pakistani representative 
unilaterally withdrew his field staff. There has been no further progress in the matter since. 


2 ai ak ae a ak 2k मर 


* Replying to a Calling Attention regarding the reported Pakistani claim to territory on Rangpur-Cooch Behar Border, 
LS. Deb., 18 March, 1968, cc. 1120-27. 


802 


5००८ ०:८० ८: 
BAe: 
००7५ 


दर 
~~. 

ie 
2S 


0777: ARI 
Sie a S 
०००५० 


70:20: रू 
2 


No step has been taken so far*. Although there are some places, such as area near Mizo 


hills, which cannot be demarcated owing to some specific reasons, there had been some 
talks in this regard.... 


ae aie af ae कं मु कम के 


One point he** raised was about this being in the court. It is the Berubari question 
that is in the court and not the Chilahati question. Chilahati comes within the Radcliffe 
Award. 


मंद ae ae 2 ak मंद ak ah a 


Newspaper reports of unusual concentrations of Pakistani forces have not been 
corroborated by our own reports. I am told that whenever tension arises, the area 
Commanders of the two sides meet and talk the matter over and also take action under the 
ground rules to bring down tension. 


ae मै और 2 a अं a ak ak 


Sir, this Calling Attention relates to a very limited question regarding Chilahat.. It has 
nothing to do with the other questions which the hon. Member*** has mentioned. He has 
also tried to mislead the House by saying that this is a new issue. This is not a new issue. 


aK AK मर me और ac ae He oe 


I am not at all averse to meeting President Ayub Khan and discussing matters with 
him. In each matter we have to see what useful results will come about. If the proper 
atmosphere exists we will certainly do whatever is necessary. 


a OK oe मैप hc मर me मं akc 


Sir, it will be a long statement if I were to give all these areas which are in adverse 
possession either of Pakistan or of India****. I am told that a list of the areas which are 
in the adverse possession of Pakistan was supplied to the House in answer to Starred 
Question No. 1484 on 31st July, 1967. If necessary, the hon. Members could look it up. 


aK 3c 3c ic मं akc ae 3K मर 


We have laid claim to some of those areas which we think are ours. Some hon. Members 
have referred to areas like Nagarparkar which are not ours. Obviously we cannot lay any 


claim to them. 


+ 


Replying to Shri K.N. Tiwari’s questions, “I would like to know as to why the demarcation work on our borders 
with Pakistan has not yet been completed? Secondly, since that area is under dispute and in spite of India’s readiness 
to take up demarcation work there, Pakistan has shown its unwillingness and does not want to demarcate it; and 
has ultimately dropped this idea; therefore, what steps Government of India have taken towards settling the issues?” 
** Shri B.K. Daschowdhury. 
*** Shri S.M. Banerjee. 
**** Replying to the issue raised by Shri Bal Raj Madhok. 


803 


With regard to Sheikh Abdullah’s statement, I have only seen what has appeared in 
the newspapers. He has made some statements which are unfortunate to say the least. But 
I do not think that we should get provoked by them. If Pakistan is going to behave as it 
behaved in 1965, I can assure this hon. House that we will meet it in a much stronger 
way. (/nterruptions). The question raised here is a limited question. It was raised earlier 
also in 1963 and at that time we had accepted the position—both the Central Government 
and the West Bengal Government—that these 512 acres with which we are concerned just 
now is an adversely held territory. 


«0, छा | हल ०४ न 
sie Ma हो का OI GE gat ck MONT CEPA ENS a prg 8, कक Se ar with? gam Rectang! व ५ महक ० GW mine Mea ee amie gtd abt हक शा ae AAS 5 को ae igs ARTA GIS कक कर कल Boe ee 25 ३ १ कक Gay को Bats Pee ते plats को आह Ug बिक dee astern: के 
mieplo esata eet Re ah) GS 11 Cee sy 


Relief to Cyclone Victims in East Pakistan* 


Mr. Chairman, Sir, the other day I made an announcement in the House regarding the 
Government of India’s contribution of Rs. 5 lakhs for relief to the victims of the terrible 
cyclone in East Pakistan. I had then said that this was an initial and token contribution. 
The press reports indicate that the magnitude of the calamity and the extend of damage is 
much greater than was originally thought. 


As an expression of friendship and concern for the people of East Pakistan in their 
hour of distress, the Government of India have decided to raise the quantum of relief 
assistance to Rs. 1 crore. This amount will be utilised broadly for the supply of rice and 
sugar and essential commodities such as medicines, baby food, clothing and coal. The 
Government have also decided to send two mobile 50-bed hospitals fitted with X-ray and 
other facilities. We shall also make available the services of river craft with the requisite 
strength of crew for operations. 


* Statement regarding Government contribution for relief of East Pakistan Cyclone victims, L.S. Deb., 19 November, 
1970, c. 434. 


Facing the Challenges : Situation on 
indo-Pak Border, 1971* 


The House is aware of the announcement made by President Yahya Khan yesterday 
declaring a State of Emergency throughout Pakistan. This declaration is the climax of his 
efforts to divert the attention of the world from Bangladesh and to put the blame on us for 
a situation which he himself has created. Such a declaration by a military regime, which 
has been waging war on the people of Bangladesh for the last 8 months and has been 
threatening us with total war for the last 3 to 4 months, has no meaning except to deceive 
his own people and the world at large. 


President Yahya Khan’s Id message had created the impression that he was at last 
heeding the advice of a number of world leaders to abandon the military approach and to 
seek a political solution. We hope that the declaration of Emergency is not a device to get 
out of the compulsions of seeking a political solution. 


Since the recession of the monsoon, the successes of the Mukti Bahini have apparently 
upset the plan of the military regime. The liberation forces of Bangladesh, with the full 
support of their entire people, have taken a heavy toll of Pakistan’s armed forces and have 
freed large parts of their homeland. 


At great cost of ourselves, we have been shouldering an intolerable burden of looking 
after nearly 10 million terror-stricken men, women and children, who have fled from 
Pakistani oppression. The refugees want to return to their homes under credible guarantees 
of safety and human dignity. We are determined to ensure that they are enabled to do so 
as soon as possible. 


Pakistan’s armed forces have been shelling our border areas inflicting damage on life 
and property. Their air force has violated our air space several times and once came right 
up to Srinagar. Spies and saboteurs have been blowing up trains and bridges. Since March 
1971, we have lodged 66 protests for border violations covering 890 incidents. For air 
violations we have lodged 17 protest covering 50 incidents. However, these protests have 
had no effect and to cover up their incessant violations, Pakistani propaganda media have 
been putting out the story that we are engaged in an undeclared war and have mounted 
massive attacks with tanks and troops. This is wholly untrue. In fact, 1t was Pakistan which 
threatened total war and moved its entire armed strength into operational positions on our 


* Statement regarding the ‘Declaration of Emergency in Pakistan and Situation on India-Pakistan Border’, 
LS. Deb., 24 November, 1971, cc. 222-24, 


a 


Nahin 
; ८४:27: eee 
nae payee hs Akos Dotan: 
3520 x > 222०2 SESS 


25,१०० १ NN CRON Saree 1048,“ ates 244 
253 22207: BS 
: Roe 


न tree 


as 


tS Str te 
SERRE 
12222 

an 


cas 
- 


borders and launched a massive hate-India campaign with the slogans “Crush India”, 
“Conquer India”. We had, therefore, to take appropriate measures and move our forces to 
defensive positions in order to protect the integrity of our country and the lives and 
properties of our citizens. It has never been our intention to escalate the situation or to 
start a conflict. To this end, we have instructed our troops not to cross the borders except 
in self-defence. We cannot ignore our experiences of 1947-48, January 1965 and of August- 
September 1965. 


On November 21, Pakistani infantry, supported by tanks and artillery launched an 
offensive on the Mukti Bahini who were holding the liberated area around Boyra, five miles 
from our eastern border. Pakistani armour, under heavy artillery cover, advanced to our 
border threatening our defensive positions. Their shells fell in our territory, wounding a 
number of our men. The local Indian military Commander took appropriate action to repulse 
the Pakistani attack. In this action 13 Pakistani Chafee tanks were destroyed. 


On November 22, the Pakistani forces called up an air strike of four Sabre jets on our 
positions. These were intercepted within Indian territory by our Gnats who destroyed three 
Sabre jets. Two of the Pakistani pilots, who baled out, were captured on our territory. We 
regard this as a purely local action. 


Even though Pakistan has declared an Emergency, we shall refrain from taking a similar 
step, unless further aggressive action by Pakistan compels us to do so in the interest of 
national security. In the meantime, the country should remain unruffled. Our brave armed 
forces and our people will ensure that any adventurism on the part of the Miltary regime 
of Pakistan meets with adequate rebuff. The rulers of Pakistan must realise that the path 
of peace, of peaceful negotiation and reconciliation—is more rewarding than that of war 
and the suppression of liberty and democracy.* 


* An identical Statement was made by the Prime Minister, Smt. Indira Gandhi in Rajya Sabha also. (R.S. Deb., 
24 November 1971, cc. 252-55.) 


807 


Defending India’s Sovereignty and Integrity* 


Mr. Speaker, Sir, this morning, according to the news, the Government of West Pakistan 
have declared war upon us. Last evening the West Pakistan Air Force violated our air space 
wantonly and attacked a large number of our air fields. Simultaneously their ground forces 
shelled our positions along the western border. Their propaganda media has made a totally 
‘baseless allegation that India had launched an attack and assault. 


The news reached me just as I was leaving Calcutta. Immediately on my returm I took 
counsel with my colleagues and with the Leaders of the Opposition Parties. We were all 
of one mind, united in our resolve that the nation’s freedom should be defended and 
unanimous that the aggressor should be beaten back. I am sure the same sense of solidarity 
will mark our work in the difficult days ahead. A state of Emergency has been proclaimed. 


I lay on the Table a copy of Notification No. G.S.R. 1789 published in Gazette of India 
dated the 3rd December, 1971 under sub-clause (b) of clause (2) of article 352 of the 
Constitution, publishing the Proclamation of Emergency issued by the President on the 
3rd December, 1971 under clause (1) of the said article. 


We are approaching the House to adopt the Defence of. India Bill. 


Our feeling is one of regret that Pakistan did not desist from the ultimate folly and 
sorrow that at a time when the greatest need of this sub-continent is development, the 
peoples of India and Pakistan have been pushed into war. We could have lived as good 
neighbours by the people of West Pakistan have never had a say in their destiny. In this 
grave hour our own dominant emotion is one of confidence and faith. 


For over nine months, the military regime of West Pakistan has barbarously trampled 
upon freedom and basic human rights in Bangladesh. The Army of occupation has 
committed heinous crimes unmatched for their vindictive ferocity. Many millions have been 
uprooted, ten millions have been pushed into our country. 


We repeatedly drew the attention of the world to this annihilation of a whole people, 
to this menace to our security. Everywhere the people showed sympathy and understanding 
for the economic and other burdens and the danger to India. But Governments seemed 
morally and politically paralysed. Belated efforts to persuade the Islamabad regime to take 
some step which would lead to a lasting solution fell on deaf ears. 


* Statement regarding attack by Pakistan, LS. Deb., 4 December, 1971, cc. 1-4. 


The wrath of the West Pakistan Army has been aroused because the people of 
Bangladesh have stood and struggled for values which the Army is unable to comprehend 
and which it has suppressed in every province of Pakistan. 


As the Mukti Bahini’s effectiveness increased the West Pakistan Army became more 
desperate. Our tradition is to stand not with tyrants, but with the oppressed and so the 
anger has been turned upon us. 


West Pakistan has escalated and enlarged the aggression against Bangladesh into full 
war against India. War needs as much patience and self-restraint as does peace. Military 
regime of West Pakistan will go all out to sow suspicion and rumour in the hope of 
fomenting communal tension and internal trouble. Let us not be taken in by their designs. 
We must maintain unity and a sense of high purpose. 


We should be prepared for a long struggle. High production, agricultural and industrial, 
is the foundation upon which defence rests. The courage and fighting capability of the 
Jawans have to be backed by the dedication of the farmer, the worker, the technician and 
the trader. The business community has a special responsibility to resist the temptation to 
hoard or to charge higher profit. Artists and writers, teachers and students—the nation looks 
to them to defend our ideals and to keep our high morale. To the women of our country I 
make special appeal to save every possible grain and rupee and to avoid waste. The sacrifice 
of each of us will build the nation‘s strength and enduring power. 


We have stood for peace, but peace itself has to be defended. Today we are fighting to 
safeguard our territorial integrity and national honour. Above all, we are fighting for the 
ideals we cherish and the cause of peace. 


ES oon 


Defence of India* 


Sir, I beg to move for leave to introduce a Bill to provide for special measures to ensure 
the public safety and interest, the defence of India and civil defence and for the trial of 
certain offences and for matters connected therewith. ** 


ee Me she ak aK a a 


I introduce the Bill. 
I beg to move : 


That the Bill to provide for special measures to ensure the public safety and interest, 
the defence of India and civil defence and for the trial of certain offences and for matters 
connected therewith, be taken into consideration. 


Mr. Speaker, I have said a little while ago*** that we shall be bringing before this 
House the Defence of India Bill. This Bill seeks only to provide necessary legal sanction 
as a consequence of the proclamation of emergency made by the President. We have tried 
to interfere as little as possible with the normal avocations of our citizens. But the country 
as a whole will have to make great efforts and undergo all sacrifices necessary for our 
defence. 


The provisions of the Bill are somewhat similar to legislation undertaken on the last 
occasion. However, some changes in the light of our earlier experience and judicial 
decisions have been made. Full advantage has been taken of the laws enacted in the recent 
years by Parliament. Thus, the Bill does not make any separate provisions for detention. 
The Maintenance of Internal Security Act has been utilised with some modifications. In 
order that prompt action may be taken against activities prejudicial to the defence effort, 
District Magistrates and other specified officers are proposed to be given the power to 
detain such persons. The maximum period for which a person could be detained 1n the 
interest of defence of India or security of India without consulting the Advisory Board 
has been extended to two years. These provisions, however, will be in force only so long 
as the Proclamation made by the President under Article 352 is in force. 


* While introducing and moving for consideration the Defence of India Bill 1971, LS. Deb., 4 December, 1971, 
cc. 37-39. 


** The motion was adopted. 
*** During her statement regarding ‘attack by Pakistan’ made in the House the same day. 


810 


PCN eae It 
2077 17/ 070 


Restate बट न) 
20 57200:203५ 


been eas 
5322५: 


SEES BS SESE ea Oo MARR RCT ORONO 


ee 


RAS 
va 


A कक ७० ० व का 
ORES 


made Sant SEED eater bth DT NS 
SES 


So far as the modifications in other laws go, our objective has only been to provide 
more deterrent punishment for offences which in the context our defence efforts would be 
regarded as serious. 


Now, I move that the Defence of India Bill, 1971, be taken into consideration. 


811 


Surrender of Pakistani Forces in Bangladesh* 


Mr. Speaker, Sir, I have an announcement to make, which I think the House has been 
waiting for, for sometime. The West Pakistan forces have unconditionally surrendered in 
Bangladesh. The instrument of surrender was signed in Dacca at 16.31 hours I.S.T. today 
by Lt. Gen. A.A.K. Niazi on behalf of the Pakistan Eastern Command, Lt. Gen. Jagjit Singh 
Aurora, GOC-in-C of the Indian and Bangladesh forces in the Eastern Theatre accepted 
the surrender. Dacca 15 now the free capital of a free country. 


This House and the entire nation rejoice in this historic event. We hail the people of 
Bangla Desh in their hour of triumph. We hail the brave young man and boys of the Mukti 
Bahini for their valour and dedication. We are proud of our own Army, Navy, Air Force 
and the Border Security Force, who have so magnificently demonstrated their quality and 
capacity. Their discipline and devotion to duty are well known. India will remember with 
gratitude the sacrifices of those who have laid down their lives, and our thoughts are with 
their families. 


Our Armed Forces are under strict orders to treat Pakistani prisoners of war in 
accordance with the Geneva Convention and to deal with. all sections of the population of 
Bangladesh in a humane manner. The Commanders of the Mukti Bahini have issued similar 
orders to their forces. Although the Government of Bangladesh have not yet been given 
an opportunity to sign the Geneva Convention, they also have declared that they will fully 
abide by it. It will be the responsibility of the Government of Bangladesh, the Mukti Bahini 
and the Indian Armed Forces to prevent any reprisals. 


Our objectives were limited—to assist the gallant people of Bangladesh and their Mukti 
Bahini to liberate their country from a reign of terror and to resist aggression on our own 
land. Indian Armed Forces will not remain in Bangladesh any longer than is necessary. 


The millions who were driven out of their homes across our borders have already begun 
trekking back. The rehabilitation of this war-torn land calls for dedicated team work by 
its Government and people. 


We hope and trust that the Father of this new nation. Sheikh Muyibur Rahman, will 
take his rightful place among his own people and lead Bangladesh to peace, progress and 


* Statement regarding the unconditional surrender of West-Pakistan Forces in Bangladesh, LS., Deb., 16 December, 
1971, cc. 145-46. 


812 


aarp 


prosperity. The time has come when they can together look forward to a meaningful future 
in their Shonar Bangla. They have our good wishes. 


The triumph is not theirs alone. All nations who value the human spirit, will recognise 
it as a Significant milestone in man’s quest for liberty. 


813 


indo—Pak War, 1971 : Declaration of Ceasefire by India“ 


Mr. Speaker, Sir, on March 31, 1971, six days after the great upheaval in Bangladesh. 
I had the honour to move a Resolution in this House. 


I said, then, that India’s permanent interest in peace and our commitment to uphold 
and defend human rights demanded the immediate cessation of the use of force and of the 
massacre of defenceless people of Bangladesh. I had called upon all peoples and 
Governments to take urgent and constructive steps to prevail upon the Government of 
Pakistan to immediately end the systematic decimation of a people. I had concluded my 
statement by expressing the profound conviction of this House that the historic upsurge 
of the 75 million people of East Bengal would triumph. We also gave an assurance that 
their struggle and sacrifice would receive the whole-hearted sympathy and support of the 
people of India. Today, the pledge we then made together in this House and 1n the country 
stands redeemed. 


It is natural that the people of India should be elated. We can also understand the great 
rejoicing of the people of Bangladesh. I share the elation and the joy. But, as the Gita 
says, neither joy nor sorrow should tilt the balance of our equanimity or blur our vision of 
the future. 


All those who have borne arms, all those who have been involved in the planning and 
direction of the operations, all the people of India who have responded so generously— 
these are to be thanked and congratulated. 


It is a victory, but a victory not only of arms, but of ideas. The Mukti Bahini could not 
have fought so daringly but for its passionate urge for freedom and the establishment of a 
special identity of Bangladesh. Our own forces would not have been so fearless and 
relentless had they not been convinced of our cause. 


India has always stood for breadth of vision, tolerance of the points of view of others; 
of being in the battle yet above it. 


We stand for Democracy, for Secularism and for Socialism. Only this combination 
opens the way for full freedom, gives protection to the weaker sections and provides 
opportunity for the growth of different personalities. 


* Statement regarding ‘India’s decision to cease operations on 17 December, 1971 on all fronts in the Western 
Sector.’ 1.3. Deb., 17 December, 1971, cc. 69-72. 


814 


We believe that no nation can be built on concepts which are negative or which do not 
have meaning for all its people. Unfortunately, Pakistan has based its policies on hatred 
for, and confrontation with India. 


While we re-dedicate ourselves to our ideals, I hope the people of Pakistan will seek a 
path which is more in keeping with their circumstances and needs. These 24 years, we 
have heard many aggressive speeches and much abusive and false propaganda against us. 
We cannot believe that this is the true voice of the Pakistani people. They have been kept 
in darkness by their successive regimes. We want to assure them that we have no enmity 
towards them. There are more things in common between us than those which divide us. 


We should like to fashion our relations with the people of Pakistan on the basis of 
friendship and understanding. Let them live as masters in their own house and devote their 
energies to the removal of poverty and inequalities in their country. 


It is this sincere desire which prompted us last evening to instruct our Army, Navy 
and Air Force to cease operations from 20.00 hours today on all fronts in the west. 


I am grateful for the support which all political parties of the country have given during 
this difficult period and specially to this initiative on behalf of peace. 


This offer was communicated to the world community by our Minister of External 
Affairs, Sardar Swaran Singh in New York. We also had it formally conveyed to the 
Government of Pakistan through the Swiss Embassy. We hope that the people and the rulers 
of Pakistan will appreciate and reciprocate this offer. 


The consequences which would flow from a failure to do so will rest squarely upon 
the military rulers of Pakistan. However, regardless of what happens on the western front, 
let us not be complacent. The coming months specially will bring new and complex 
problems. We must be very vigilant to safeguard our integrity and our interests and above 
all, the fundamental beliefs of our national existence.* 


* An identical Statement was made by the Prime Minister, Smt. Indira Gandhi, in Rajya Sabha also. 
(R.S. Deb., 17 December, 1971, cc. 78-80.) 


815 


Indo-Pak Relations* 


Mr. Speaker, Sir, there is hardly any need for me to intervene in this debate because I 
find that from our own side and from Members of the Opposition there has come solid 
support for this Agreement. And the only arguments, if one can call them arguments, which 
were put forward by the Jana Sangh have been very ably refuted by Members from all 
sides of the House. 


This morning, we witnessed what I can only call an utterly deplorable and ridiculous 
demonstration on the floor of the House. I do not think that any Member of the House, no 
matter on which side or which policy he stands for, will say that such doings have anything 
whatsoever to do with democratic functioning and that is why it is astonishing that the 
same Members had the cheek to talk of democracy in this House today. One could have 
called such action childish. But it would be an insult to the children of India to call it so. 


I must repudiate very strongly—I do not think there is any need to do so but these 
things must go on record-the constant allegation that the Government of India is acting 
at the behest of some outside power. I think—I am sorry for these people—I can only say 
that they must be suffering from some deep inferiority complex. They must be suffering 
from an utter lack of confidence in the people of India. (Interruptions) I am not going to 
yield. I am capable of taking care of myself...... (Interruptions) I am not yielding to this 
gentleman at all. They have made enough demonstration of their behaviour, their sagacity 
and their experience as they call it, this morning. The House has had enough of it. I hope, 
Sir, you will not in future permit such behaviour on the floor of the House. When foreigners 
have visited this House and when I have gone abroad it 1s sad to hear comments on this 
sort of behaviour taking place inside the House. This is no compliment to Indian democracy 
or to Indian unity. 


Mr. Vajpayee spoke also of Indian unity. I know something about the unity of this 
country and the unity of the people. Let me repeat that I have said before, that unity is for 
a purpose. You do not have unity just for the sake of unity. You have unity to make the 
country strong; you have unity to take the country forward. You do not have unity to take 
the country down, to show meanness, to show pettiness and to show lack of statesmanship. 


Today Mr. Vajpayee was right in saying that he had some lakh of people with him. He 
does have. But let me remind him that the population of India is 60 crores, and those crores 
are not with Mr. Vajpayee. He may have a few lakhs but there are still the crores of people. 


* Participating in the discussion on a Motion regarding the Simla Agreement, LS. Deb., 31 July, 1972, cc. 304-14. 


816 


Are we going to listen to the voice of the crores or are we going to listen to the voice of 
the small, whining minority ? It is not a minority that speakes up with strength; it is a 
whining, weak, full of inferiority minority. He has not only no confidence in the people of 
India, he has shown utter disregard for the people of Kashmir. How dare he says that we 
are leaving the people of Kashmir to the tender mercies of the Pakistanis ? Do not blame 
the people of Kashmir who have stood by us ॥ all times turmoil. At a time when there 
was no Indian military to help the people of Kashmir, it was their own militia who met 
the Pakistani attack. (Interruptions). 


How dare he challenge their bravery ? How dare he challenge their solidarity with India. 


This country, and this Government, is keenly aware of where it 1s going and where it 
wants to go. There was a time—not very ago; only last year when the same hon. Members 
did not believe me when I said that we knew what was going to happen in Bangladesh, 
that we were going to solve the problem, that we were going to see that the refugees were 
returned with honour and safety. Mr. Vajpayee said to me, ‘I do not believe you’. | said, 
‘Mr. Vajpayee. I am not concerned with whether you believe me or not; I am concerned 
with what is going to happen.’ And today it is not I who am saying what happened. Can 
Mr.. Vajpayee deny that there is Bangladesh today ? Can Mr. Vajpayee deny that the 
refugees have gone back to Bangladesh ? And still he says, ‘I do not believe you.’ Let 
him not believe me; it matters little to the people of India whether he believes or does not 
believe; it matters little to the people of the world whether he believes or does not believe. 
But history will show whether what has happened has been for the good of India. 


I have made no tall claims for the Simla Agreement; I make no tall claims now. All I 
say is that it is a beginning; it is a small beginning perhaps, but it is a good beginning. 
Why do I say so ? I am not concerned with whether we can trust the President of Pakistan 
or not; I am only concerned with whether we can trust ourselves or not. Do we trust 
ourselves or not ? Have we confidence in our strength or not ? Have we the strength to 
handle the situation or not? This is what concerns me. Are we afraid ? May be, the Jan 
Sangh is afraid of Pakistan. 


cok जैर a > मै a 2 और 


Why do you shout like this if you are not ?* (/nterruptions) It is not of use saying 
anything now. (/nterruptions). 


I appeal to the members of the Party, I am not like the leaders on the other side; I am 
fully able to defend myself; I do not need support from other. Every time when Mr. Vajpayee 
got up, eight of his members felt 1t necessary to support him. But this is not necessary on 
our side of the House. 


Now we have a certain national pride. And when I use the word “pnde’, I do not mean 
false pride, I do not mean any feeling of arrogance, but pride in this nation and what it 
has stood for, pride in the Indian people and what they are capable of doing pnde which 


* Replying to Shri Hukam Chand Kachwai who intervened to say, “No”. 


SS 


poke 


SSH Is SA 
~ 2::0%222%% 10240 ८4०००: 
22022: 55% 4 2 
‘a! em oe कब, व ७. 


ates 

2227 
. any, ० 
Opie न oe} 

2421 


Pe 
22222 22255 
OOS 
Sa 


ayaa 
RK 
xs 
2 
Re 


makes you want to do your best, to give your utmost, no matter what it costs, for the good 
of the country. Perhaps it is a sentiment that cannot be understood by some of our friends 
Opposite. We cannot blame them. They are, no less than Pakistan creatures of partition. 
They had no place in India before, and perhaps they fear that they will have no place when 
there is complete peace. That is why they are so concerned that the spirit of confrontation 
should continue. 


What is the basic issue before us? May I take the House into confidence? No, I must 
digress a moment—we have been blamed by all sides for not consulting the opposition. 
Now, we held a meeting of the leaders of the opposition on the 19th of May where we 
told them whatever it was possible to say before the Simla talks actually took place. We 
put our points before them. Our friends from the CPM refused to attend the meeting, but 
we cannot be blamed for that. The others, including the Jan Sangh, were present. There 
was nothing more we could have said had we met even one day before the talks. Therefore, 
it is not true to say that we did not put our views before them. Naturally, we could not 
know the details. We did not know the details ourselves. We did not know how things 
would proceed. 


The very first remark I made to Mr. Bhutto was that we have to decide, Pakistan and 
India have to decide, whether the interests of these two countries are complementary or 
are they now or are they always going to be conflicting? This is a major issue to decide. If 
we think that our interests conflict, then you can have one agreement or a hundred 
agreements and you will not have peace. But if we believe as India has believed and India 
does believe today, that our interests are largely the same, that the major problems we face 
are the problems of the poverty of our peoples of the economic backwardness of our 
countries and the incessant, effort of foreign powers to pressuries us. We all know and 
most of us have been involved in the freedom struggle what deliberate attempt there was 
to create friction within ourselves. Why ? So as to weaken the freedom struggle. They 
knew that if all the religions and all the communities kept together, then their unity would 
create a strength what nobody could move, not even the great British Empire. But they 
knew also that if they could divide us on any issue, whether it is language or religion or 
anything else, well, then they would have a chance of defeating us. That is why their effort 
was to create dissensions. 


After Partition, they could not do it in the same manner. Therefore, the attempt of those 
forces who were interested in keeping the sub-continent weak, was to see that this 
confrontation should continue between the different parts of the sub-continent so that we 
would be more involved in this sort of quarrel than in tackling our basic problems and 
trying to become strong in ourselves. 


This is what we have to study. When this is the state of affairs, do we permit it, or 
should we say, “Enough, we have had enough of the traps of others. Today we must realise 
what is in our real interests.” There is no doubt that the real interests of this country, as of 
Pakistan, lie in peace between the two countries. 


Will there be peace or not? I am neither an astrologer nor do I consult astrologers. | 
do not know. All I know is that I must fight for peace and I must take those steps which 


818 


ann 


a asians 


Bo! 
(Mane 
५22: 


will lead us to peace. If they do not work out, we are prepared. It is not as if we are 
disregarding the interests of the nation. We are not saying. No, No. We thought there would 
be peace. Even if somebody attacks us, we are not ready.’ That is not our attitude. We are 
prepared to face any threat or any kind of aggression should it take place. But we must all 
consider, as our friend, hon. Member Shri Anthony has said, whether this is really within 
the realm of possibility or whether it is a remote consideration. 


In a situation like this, when we obviously have the upper hand, we are in a position 
to guide affairs. Had we stood up saying as when two children are quarreling, “You have 
taken my toy; I must have it before I speak to you’ or something like that, if we had that 
kind of attitude what would have happened? 


It may be that the talks would have broken down. We could have said, ‘Mr. Bhutto, 
go back and we shall meet again.’ And the same would happen next time. We could keep 
On meeting and have very pleasant meetings or perhaps not so pleasant. What would have 
been achieved ? Would India have been stronger ? Would we have been able to relax more 
than what we can today for instance ? We would not. As some historian has said, had the 
countries of Europe treated Germany with the understanding that India has shown to 
Pakistan, there would not have been a Hitler and there would not have been a Second World 
War’. 

So, it is question of the manner of dealing with things. A situation has been created 
whereby it is,—I am not saying impossible, but difficult for Pakistan to do very much 
against us. It is for us, by our action, by our behaviour, to see that this situation 1s 
maintained. This is not done by taking up a hard attitude or soft atutude but by assuming 
a situation whereby the capacity for Pakistan or any other country acting against us 1s 
minimised. 


Several Members have pointed out that the situation has changed in Pakistan. I think 
the leadership of Pakistan and President Bhutto of Pakistan are fully aware of the changes. 
We in India are fully aware that the situation has changed in India also. It is not the situation 
which pertained at the time of Tashkent; it is not the situation which pertained at the time 
of previous agreements; it is a different situation. Today we have the whole Indian public, 
and, in spite of the Jana Sangh, it is a united public, it is united on the main issues, it is 
united in guarding its interests. I do not think it is feasible for anybody to go against the 
interests of the people. 


a जद 2k ae मर We He he मर 


I do not need Shri Kachwai’s advice on what I should do nor do the people want his 
advice. * 

As I said, we are not afraid of Pakistan; we are not afraid of any other people either. 
But,we do realise that the danger is not so much from Pakistan as it is from those forces 


who envisage confrontation on this Sub-continent, or confrontation in Asia, to be in their 
interest. As I have said on a previous occasion, Asia is a continent which has given great 


* Responding to Shri Hukam Chand Kachwai’s observation, “Meet the people, then it will be known to you”. 


819 


fo ts ae 
22272 48 


ay 
22232: 02 
MPO ata eae 


sg 
teaches Se 

i > tA) Ps 
2220 BRN ee 200: 
EA EEE TRIOS PT 
Tee SERRE 


Saye 
Soa ० अत 


% 


richness to the world. It is to the exploitation of Africa and Asia that today the affluent 


countries owe their wealth and their riches and their industrial advance. 


But we remain where we are. Why ? Because, we are caught up in past thinking. 
Somebody provokes us and we get provoked into saying; All right, let us fight amongst 
ourselves. We do not see that third parties are taking advantage of us. 


The time has come when Asia must wake up to its destiny, must wake up to the real 
needs of its people, must stop fighting amongst ourselves, no matter what our previous 
quarrels, no matter what the previous hatred and the bitterness. The time has come today 
when we must bury the past. We should see in what way we can make the people of Asia, 
who were rich not only in wealth, not only in talent, but in culture, in heritage, once more 
region—I won’t say, past glory, because I don’t believe in that kind of glory but certainly 
a status in the world, where they can guide the destinies of the world, they can also mould 
the future in order to make the world a fit place for man to live in. 


This is the vision of the future which must guide us today. If we get entangled in petty 
quarrels then we have to say goodbye to such a future and we shall always be enmeshed 
in conflicts. That is why we must now look not to the past, but to the future. If we say, we 
must look to the past, how can we ask Pakistan not to look to the past ? We have to chose— 
either both look to the past or both say goodbye to the past, let us try to build a new future. 
It is easier for us to say good—bye to the past; because we have never preached hatred. At 
the worst of times, we have expressed our concern for the people of Pakistan, we have 
expressed our sorrows at their being deluded by their leaders, by their military dictatorship 
and so on. We have never preached hatred against Pakistan. So, for us it is a little easier, 
but in the case of Pakistan which has promoted a hate-campaign, and which has attacked 
India so many times, 1s it realistic to expect a sudden washing away of past attitude and 
adoption of new ? It is not easy. These things do not come-about by wishing or wanting. I 
think that President Bhutto is making a sincere effort to take his people towards a new 
future. Whether he will succeed or not, I do not know. But at least, he is making an effort, 
and I think that it is in our interest that his effort to turn the face of Pakistan from its past 
hatred and bitterness to a new future of peace and friendship is very much worth supporting. 


During the debate it was also said that certain remarks here were not made for political 
purposes. This is a ridiculous statement. There is nothing in the world which is not political. 
The people who consider themselves as non-political are usually those who do not want 
change, but they are no less political than those who do want change. 


We also remember that at the time of Bangladesh also, while everybody was with us 
and broadly supported us, there were parties which tried to take political advantage of the 
situation. They did raise the sort of issues which they thought would catch the public 
imagination, which would show the Government in a poor light, whether it was the Question 
of the refugees or the question of marching our Army into Bangladesh or anything else. 
Therefore, let us not get lulled by these soft words or imagine that these things were not 
political. All of us in this House are political beings, and we are very conscious of the 
political actions taken by others. Had there been no political motive, here would have been 
no reason to have the sort of tamasha a held on the border—that is the only word that 


Stet en: wie 1 रा ee ० 
PEE SO BOR ern ee cD 


SS ey 
72 

oa Stearn 
Potties 


oN 
a 
2 


३४ 


ae 
ys १४222 5 


aes 


eS ros s 
PAdtecagteernrne eee at 
SEES ५ 
sah नीम 
SER, eae 

2 


nx 
122 


awa 
ss 


- 


describes it. It was as a tamasha, that the people regarded it also. Or to have the sort of 
tamasha that we witnessed here. 


There is one other point to demonstrate how little regard these people have for truth. 
Almost every day, there is some story of other in their newspaper which is completely 
fabricated and baseless. Today there was one which caused me some worry, something 
about a Pakistani attack on Naya Chor. I have enquired and am told that it 1s absolutely 
baseless. It is completely fabricated. So you see that there is a constant effort to renew an 
atmosphere of confrontation of giving out news that would incite people. 


I do not want to say anything more at this stage. But there is one point. Some Members 
from my own party talk about hope in the leadership and so on, but this leadership has 
always stood for one thing, and that is hope in the people of India, confidence in the people 
of India. Let us not lose that, because that is our strength. I think that 15 India’s strength. 
We are with the people. My colleague Shri Swaran Singh reminds me of an other point. It 
seems that apart from the other heavy work that the Jana Sangh has, they indulge in 
eavesdropping on telephone conversations—imaginary ones. I have not phoned to anybody 
while I was in Simla, neither privately nor officially 


oe मर भर ak 34 ak eta 


I do not remember whether the hon. Member* said that I phoned or Sardar Saheb 
phoned or Shri Yeshwantrao Chavan phoned or Shri Jagjivan Ram phoned or Shn FA. 
Ahmed phoned or somebody else did so on our behalf. That is what I am replying to. It 1s 
immaterial whether they took my name or not. The question is whether anybody spoke to 
Moscow. I categorically declared that nobody spoke to any foreign country at all. We did 
receive a large number of messages from various countries hoping and wishing that the 
talks would be successful, but nobody gave us any advice as to what we should do for the 
good reason that they know that our reaction to such a advice is not very good. We like 
advice on some occasions, but not on all occasions because each country must make its 
own decisions. It is only the country itself and the leaders of the country who can judge 
what is 1n the interest of the country. Nobody from outside, however great a friend or enemy, 
can tell us what is in the true interest of India. We knew, as I have said earlier, that nobody 
from outside can be interested in our strength; it is only we ourselves who are concerned. 


Therefore, I plead with the hon. Members of the Jana Sangh not to be the voice of 
outside reaction as well as of reaction inside the country. Today they are repeating what 
the enemies of India outside are saying. That is what the Jana Sangh is propagating. 


मं अर ak मर He मर Hehe ah 


I know that the House has supported the agreement and the entire world has supported 
it. Let us do so with grace and dignity 


me Ok aK A a a ie ak 


* Shri Hukum Chand Kachwai. 


621 


richness to the world. It is to the exploitation of Africa and Asia that today the affluent 
countries owe their wealth and their riches and their industrial advance. 


But we remain where we are. Why ? Because, we are caught up in past thinking. 
Somebody provokes us and we get provoked into saying; All right, let us fight amongst 
ourselves. We do not see that third parties are taking advantage of us. 


The time has come when Asia must wake up to its destiny, must wake up to the real 
needs of its people, must stop fighting amongst ourselves, no matter what our previous 
quarrels, no matter what the previous hatred and the bitterness. The time has come today 
when we must bury the past. We should see in what way we can make the people of Asia, 
who were rich not only in wealth, not only in talent, but in culture, in heritage, once more 
region—I won't say, past glory, because I don’t believe in that kind of glory but certainly 
a status in the world, where they can guide the destinies of the world, they can also mould 
the future in order to make the world a fit place for man to live in. 


This is the vision of the future which must guide us today. If we get entangled in petty 
quarrels then we have to say goodbye to such a future and we shall always be enmeshed 
in conflicts. That is why we must now look not to the past, but to the future. If we say, we 
must look to the past, how can we ask Pakistan not to look to the past ? We have to chose— 
either both look to the past or both say goodbye to the past, let us try to build a new future. 
It is easier for us to say good-bye to the past; because we have never preached hatred. At 
the worst of times, we have expressed our concern for the people of Pakistan, we have 
expressed our sorrows at their being deluded by their leaders, by their military dictatorship 
and so on. We have never preached hatred against Pakistan. So, for us it is a little easier, 
but in the case of Pakistan which has promoted a hate-campaign, and which has attacked 
India so many times, is it realistic to expect a sudden washing away of past attitude and 
adoption of new ? It is not easy. These things do not come.about by wishing or wanting. I 
think that President Bhutto is making a sincere effort to take his people towards a new 
future. Whether he will succeed or not, I do not know. But at least, he is making an effort, 
and I think that it is in our interest that his effort to turn the face of Pakistan from its past 
hatred and bitterness to a new future of peace and friendship is very much worth supporting. 


During the debate it was also said that certain remarks here were not made for political 
purposes. This is a ridiculous statement. There 1s nothing 1n the world which 1s not political. 
The people who consider themselves as non-political are usually those who do not want 
change, but they are no less political than those who do want change. 


We also remember that at the time of Bangladesh also, while everybody was with us 
and broadly supported us, there were parties which tried to take political advantage of the 
situation. They did raise the sort of issues which they thought would catch the public 
imagination, which would show the Governmeni in a poor light, whether 10 was the Question 
of the refugees or the question of marching our Army into Bangladesh or anything else. 
Therefore, let us not get lulled by these soft words or imagine that these things were not 
political. All of us in this House are political beings, and we are very conscious of the 
political actions taken by others. Had there been no political motive, here would have been 
no reason to have the sort of tamasha a held on the border—that is the only word that 


describes it. It was as a tamasha, that the people regarded it also. Or to have the sort of 
tamasha that we witnessed here. 


There is one other point to demonstrate how little regard these people have for truth. 
Almost every day, there is some story of other in their newspaper which is completely 
fabricated and baseless. Today there was one which caused me some worry, something 
about a Pakistani attack on Naya Chor. I have enquired and am told that it is absolutely 
baseless. It is completely fabricated. So you see that there is a constant effort to renew an 
atmosphere of confrontation of giving out news that would incite people. 


I do not want to say anything more at this stage. But there is one point. Some Members 
from my own party talk about hope in the leadership and so on, but this leadership has 
always stood for one thing, and that is hope in the people of India, confidence in the people 
of India. Let us not lose that, because that is our strength. I think that is India’s strength. 
We are with the people. My colleague Shri Swaran Singh reminds me of an other point. It 
seems that apart from the other heavy work that the Jana Sangh has, they indulge in 
eavesdropping on telephone conversations—imaginary ones. I have not phoned to anybody 
while I was in Simla, neither privately nor officially 


2 ae ok मंप्मंप् मर 2k मर मर 


I do not remember whether the hon. Member* said that I phoned or Sardar Saheb 
phoned or Shn Yeshwantrao Chavan phoned or Shri Jagjivan Ram phoned or Shn F.A. 
Ahmed phoned or somebody else did so on our behalf. That is what I am replying to. It is 
immaterial whether they took my name or not. The question is whether anybody spoke to 
Moscow. I categorically declared that nobody spoke to any foreign country at all. We did 
receive a large number of messages from various countries hoping and wishing that the 
talks would be successful, but nobody gave us any advice as to what we should do for the 
good reason that they know that our reaction to such a advice is not very good. We like 
advice on some occasions, but not on all occasions because each country must make its 
own decisions. It is only the country itself and the leaders of the country who can judge 
what is in the interest of the country. Nobody from outside, however great a friend or enemy, 
can tell us what is in the true interest of India. We knew, as I have said earlier, that nobody 
from outside can be interested in our strength; it is only we ourselves who are concerned. 


Therefore, I plead with the hon. Members of the Jana Sangh not to be the voice of 
outside reaction as well as of reaction inside the country. Today they are repeating what 
the enemies of India outside are saying. That is what the Jana Sangh 1s propagating. 


ae se ak ok ak of ae a ae 


I know that the House has supported the agreement and the entire world has supported 
it. Let us do so with grace and dignity 


ae a ak se ak a ae a ae 


* Shri Hukum Chand Kachwai. 


821 


_ ™*Mr. Deputy Chairman, Sir, it is a little difficult to speak here on this occasion because 
almost the entire House is with us on this matter.... 


eK के के ah a he ae af 


It is difficult because all points have been made and all the questions you have asked 
have been answered not once but many times over.** The Member who himself started 
off by saying that we do not listen to the voice of the people, that it is only the Congress 
which is trying to promote a particular point of view, ended the speech—I think one of 
the hon. Members from this side said that when a speech is long, sometimes there is bound 
to be contradiction—on the note that they stand alone and isolated. It did not begin on 
that note. It began on a very brave note as if the whole world was behind them and the 
Congress alone was trying to propagate another point of view. But he ended on this other 
note as was only natural. 


ae 2 ot af a मंध्म मे 


Sir, itis the same hon. Member who again and again advises us to listen with patience, 
to be quiet, has not the courtesy or the decency to listen to a single speech patiently.*** 
Not one criticism can be made against them. They can use the most abusive words, they 
can use violence, they can make the sort of vulgar and ridiculous demonstration as they 
did in the other House. That is all right for them. But if anyone from here says anything 
about them, they bob up, not one but six or seven of them. Yesterday I noted that when 
their leader was speaking, it was not enough that he was speaking, the rest of them had to 
stand up and not allowed even his voice to be heard. This 1s their idea of decency, this is 
their idea of decorum. It is not our idea. This is another reason why I say it is difficult to 
speak. Then he spoke about Sardar Saheb—I think he was trying to have a dig at him— 
that he cannot understand what he says. Now, our Foreign Minister has travelled to the 
far corners of the world. No where has there been any difficulty amongst high people, 
Heads of State, amongst low people, ordinary people, in understanding him. so if there 
was something wrong in the manner of his presenting our case, surely some other people 
would have complained “we cannot understand him’. But nowhere have we heard this 
before. Only this one party has objected that they do not understand him. Does the fault 
lie with Sardar Saheb or with those who do not understand him ? Sir, here the question is 
one of a basic difference. It 1s not concerned with words or events; it is not even a question 
merely of the Simla Agreement. It is a question, as I said the other day, of the manner in 
which this party has been born, the circumstances in which it was born. The 
hon. Member made a cheap jibe at the birth of my party. No matter what the Jan Sangh 
says the Congress was born more than 80 years ago. The policies which the Congress is 
following today as you can see from the resolutions of the Congress—Not from what I 
say or anybody on this side might say; are the policies laid down by our great leaders. To 


* During discussion in Rajya Sabha on a motion regarding the Simla Agreement, R.S. Deb., 2 August 1972, 
cc. 294-308. 


** Replying to Dr. Bhai Mahavir’s question, “Why is it difficult 7” 
*** Responding to Dr. Bhai Mahavir’s observation, “In this House we are alone; we know that.” 


make such a cheap jibe only demonstrates the lack of any other argument. Sir, I have not 
got up to answer arguments. As I have said, this is a matter of basic difference. My hon. 
friend opposite also spoke about temper. He rightly remarked that those who have no 
arguments show anger. Now, Sir, it is true that when I spoke the other day, I spoke firmly 
and strongly but I did not speak with temper in my voice or in my words. I should like 
this House and the public to judge whether my speech was a show of temper or the action 
of the hon. Member’s party did was a show of temper. It is not my opinion against their 
opinion. The whole Parliament was witness. The records are witness to what happened. It 
may be that the Member insists they are right and all others are wrong. If that be so it 
would mean that not only is the Congress wrong, not only are all the other political parties 
of this country wrong, but all the countries of the world are also wrong. This is an issue 
on which the entire world seems to be united. There has been tremendous enthusiasm for 
this Agreement and for the new spirit that they see awakened on our sub-continent. Where 
is the enthusiasm less ? I wonder if my honourable friends have taken the trouble to examine 
this. Nobody has been quiet. But whose appreciation or enthusiasm has been muted ? It is 
those people whose enthusiasm has been muted whenever there has been any question of 
the interest or strength of India—I would even say that it is those people who have been 
actively against our interest. Those are the voices in the world today which are not so strong 
and enthusiastic in favour of this Agreement. Would it be wrong if we say, as some 
honourable friends have said, that this party is echoing those outside voices ? I have no 
hesitation in repeating that what the Jan Sangh wants in India is what the military regime 
in Pakistan had wanted in Pakistan. History has shown that this policy has failed. 
(Interruptions) It is no use shaking your head. This is the picture, a picture of confrontation. 
When I spoke of toys I did not mean that land was a toy (/nterruptions). 1 was speaking 
about the conception or the attitude of demanding a tooth for a tooth and an eye for an 
eye. That 1s not a mature attitude nor an attitude which in today’s world can be advantageous 
to our country. Neither is the spirit of bargaining, which another honourable friend has 
advised. We are not out to bargain. We are a mature people who have only one aim before 
us and that is how to make our country strong. And by strength we do not mean merley 
military strength. I think that is a small part of a country’s strength. When we talk of 
strength, we mean the strength of the people. And that can come only when the people 
have understanding, when they have maturity and when the affairs of the nation are dealt 
with a certain amount of sagacity and foresight. Nobody has made the claim for the Simla 
Agreement that all problems are solved. In fact I would say that this is simply not possible 
at any time anywhere in the world. Problems will always remain. Our endeavour is to take 
each step so as to be in a better position to face the new problems that must arise. With 
the Simla Agreement India is ॥ a better position to face the future. In fact I would say 
that the Simla Agreement is in pursuance of the domestic and the international policy which 
India has followed all these years. Since independence and even before independence this 
is what the Congress Party has believed in. It believed even then in friendship with all 
countries. It believed even then in peace in the world and a cooperative endeavour to end 
the poverty and the misery of the under—privileged of the world. At a time when we had 
no strength in our hands or in our voices, we had no wealth, no armaments or anything, 
even at that time, we stood solidly by all those who were equally oppressed. We did not 
make the excuse that we had our own struggle and never could help the people of Africa, 


823 


BAGLEAY wares 
Peet प्रा 
ae nn ores 
¥ Afats hs 
SINS Ree, 
< 


that we could not pay attention to what was happening in Asia. On the contrary we stated 
this even though we were poor, we were weak, but whatever we had, the strength of our 
voice, our moral support or whenever we can give more than moral support, that would 
be at the disposal of all those who were in similar situations. Whatever our relations with 
China today, India was the first and the only country which sent a medical team to China 
at that time. And in what conditions did this team live ? I saw some of the Members when 
they left and I saw them on their return. I could not recognise them when they came back. 
They looked more like skeletons. This was because of lack of food and lack of sleep. They 
could have refused to stay in such conditions and said. ““We cannot work’. But they had 
gone to do a job and they did it. This was the spirit. This was the spirit of our policies and 
it is in this spirit that we act today also. 


Shr S.D. Misra saw a change in our foreign policy because I mentioned Asia and said 
it was time for Asian countries to cooperate more closely. May be I shall disappoint him. 
But there is no change in our policy. Why should we change when the rest of the world is 
coming round to our way of thinking? If it is necessary and if we find that this policy no 
longer serves the interests of India, then we shall not stick to it. We shall be the first to 
change. But what do we see today ? We see that the countries which had opposed us and 
which had abused us are one by one coming round to our policy. I think it was hon. 
Member, Shn V.P. Dutt who spoke of this. They may not use the word ‘non-alignment’. 
But what does ‘non-alignment’ mean ? It means that regardless of the political system of 
a country and regardless of the attitude of a country, you can build bridges with that country. 
Between no two countries was there greater enmity than the United States of America and 
China. In fact if there was a certain amount of tension between us and the United States it 
was on this ground, namely, our friendship with China and the Soviet Union. What do we 
find now ? We are left behind and they are more ‘bhai-bhai’ than anybody else. The best 
food is Chinese food and the best medical treatment is Acupuncture. In the United States 
and many parts of Europe many think that the best is Chinese soon after, a journey to the 


Soviet Union was arranged and there were some more embracings and hand shakes. What * 


for ? If any vindication or proof is necessary—I do not think it is necessary—this shows 
ours is the nght policy. On one point I agree with Dr. Bhai Mahavir and I have said in my 
public meetings, not only now but from the beginning, that I stand for certain things. I am 
very happy if the people are with me. If they are not, yet I consider my stand to be the 
right one, I must stanc alone. 


We stand for particular policies. Today a great change is taking place all over the world. 
More and more people are accepting certain realities. May be the U.S. Administration in 
spite of its new found fnendship with some countries, is not changing. But we cannot ignore 
the fact that the young people of America are giving deeper thought to these matters. So 
the world is changing. We have been told by some hon. Members that there have been 
other agreements with Pakistan, what has happened to them ? And is spite of previous 
talks about peace have there not been wars ? There have been wars. We cannot deny this. 
But we cannot deny also that today the situation in India has changed. Today there is more 
political cohesion and greater unity amongst the people. In every way the country is stronger 
and I think that our people have better understanding of the problems of the country and 


बजट पट oP ashe Pa Ry Para! EAT करण कट BENT का eather 2A Nat 
ST SER ORES RAIN 0 LNG AC 7 22 Se 


522 


SAEED RC Rte SERINE TS 02002 

rete ts aerate gfe et te wae is ne ७ aka’, Tlie gt 
Stet) ४८5 Sey oleae spite 222: 22725 eA os 
é हि व का जा nis ० Sata wet Oe One's 

é A 3०5०7 pee पर Reo ean BARRIO Ar aR Pi 
RU SES Be LSC Dre oR anne ae nies 


५2%:८%%27% 


Died 
iS “aie mot hans 


are willing to sacrifice, to fight and to face the challenges of the future. There is a great 
change in Pakistan. It may be that the Pakistanis did not want that change. But the change 
is there regardless of whether they desire it or not. They cannot ignore that change. When 
we look at the situation, we cannot also ignore that this change has taken place. Even 
President Bhutto himself has admitted that he was the father of the policy of confrontation 
with India. He himself now acknowledges that the situation has changed today and that 
the need of the times is peace. So things have changed. Some opposite Members have 
taken me and Sardar Saheb, to task because we have not categorically asserted that we 
know that there will be no war, that we know that President Bhutto is a different man. I 
don’t do so. I am not used to making such categorical statements. I can only describe our 
assessment of the situation and I can also say with some assurance that so far I have not 
often been wrong in my assessment. So, what I say is my assessment of the situation. 


Some of the questions which are being put today, “How do you know that this will 
not happen ?’. “Peace will not be peace”, etc., those same questions were posed at the 
time of Bangladesh also. It was said very categorically, “You say that the refugees will 
retum. But we know that they will not return and we know that you will not be able to 
send them back.” They do not think that Bangladesh could be freed. But, all those events 
did happen, this is obvious to all. A hundred and one events are taking place every day 
which are equally true, equally relevant, which are not so tangible to the opposition or 
even to some of us. Nevertheless, these things are happening. There are vast forces at work 
in India in Pakistan and all over the world. The question before us is this : Do we encourage 
these good forces or do we put a spoke in its wheel ? To my mind, this 1s a straightforward 
question before us. It 1s possible that one makes the best effort possible and yet one fails. 
But is that reason to.say that we should not make that effort ? So, we have made an effort 
and I believe that we have succeeded, in so far as we can, in the first step. I do not know 
whether at the second step we can go very much further. But I know that a beginning has 
been made from which it will be difficult for anybody to go back. If something untoward 
does happen, as I have said in the other House and at other places, if there is war, well, 
we are ready, then we cannot say, 1०, we have accepted peace and therefore, we are not 
ready for this attack”. But, we will do everything possible to see that peace succeeds and 
succeeds with honour. Why? Because—I have said this many times—peace 1s an ideal 
and we do believe in ideals. But peace is also a necessity. 


I have always believed and I do believe even today that India’s major enemy is not 
Pakistan it is not even the big powers which are interested in their spheres of influence. 
India’s greatest enemy is the economic backwardness of the country. It is the poverty of 
the country. If we did not have that heavy handicap, we could have done many things in 
the world. But, we have the handicap and nobody is going to help us to over come it except 
we ourselves and we cannot over come it unless we have peace. Therefore, peace is essential 
for our country and I believe that it 1s essential for Pakistan. I also believe that tension 
between the three countries of the subcontinent, will always be a weakening factor and 
one which may be exploited by outside forces. So, the second question before us is this : 
Do we want interference by outside forces or do we want to settle our affairs ourselves 
however difficult they may be? We have believed that we must settle differences amongst 


825 


१22 


2222: 
a ५22 


५2 


cay 22282 
=< RE: 


व 
PN a ORES 
2070 ea ee ree . 

s Shs के 

Bt ९०००“ 


= 


SARS KN 


(५ 5.5 
setae eeoneerased 


ourselves however complex they may be and a beginning in that direction has also been 
made. 


I am sorry, I have diverted from my point about Asian unity. I have spoken about Asia. 
I should like the countries of Asia to be united. But unity for what purpose ? You cannot 
have unity by giving up your ideals, values or your basic principles. In Asia, we follow a 
certain policy. Why ? Not because we do not like America and so if America does something 
we must be perverse and criticize America. Not at all. Personally I am not against America 
or any other country. But, we do disapprove of what the U.S. Administration is doing in 
Vietnam. We believe that this U.S. action is not only against the interests of the people of 
Vietnam, it is against the interests of every country in Asia and every country in the world. 
But, there are countries in Asia which are supporting this American policy. What can we 
do ? We want to be fnends with them. But we can’t have that close friendship with them 
as we have can with countries which agree with our policy. 


Just a few months back, hon. Members opposite were every anxious that we should 
be friends with Taiwan. I do not know whether their enthusiasm is as great today. The 
enthusiasm of the Western countries in this matter is not only waning, it has completely 
collapsed. The situation is developing as we had always thought it would be one day. We 
could not prophesy that it would happen in 1970, 1971 or 1972. But we knew that it would 


happen. 


We want the countries of Asia to stand together not against Africa or Latin America. 
We want them also. But when we can look after our own home first, only them can we be 
effective in a larger circle. From that point of view, what happens in Asia is of our more 
immediate concern. But we are equally interested in the peaceful development and progress 
of the under-privileged and developing countries of Africa and Latin America. But we can 
play a greater role in Asia and therefore, we must at least try to solve the quarrels and 
tensions of Asia as soon as we Can. 


Hon. Members, I hope, will forgive me if I digress a little. If you look back into history, 
you will see that every country started with small units, gradually increasing India is one 
country. We know that each of our States has some problems with neighbouring States. 
Now, they can quarrel and they can go to war as did the old rajas on all kinds of small 
and big matters or they can settle these matters peacefully. One State may suffer a little or 
another may suffer a little. But in the process we evolve something by which we can all 
become much stronger. And it is this that makes a nation. Fortunately, in our country we 
have that spirit in the States now. A number of long standing problems of the States are 
being gradually solved, because each realises that by not coming to an agreement both 
suffer equally and the whole country suffers. 


So we have to look at the problem of friendship with Pakistan from that angle—not 
can we get something from Pakistan ? Can Pakistan take something from us ? But, ‘can 
we Create an atmosphere and a situation in which we can together face the far greater outside 
dangers that threaten us ?’ 


The other point raised was, how was it that at first no agreement could be reached and 
then suddenly at the end there was agreement ? Now, nothing happens so suddenly. There 
is preparation for whatever happens. You can say that war was won on a particular day. 
But we did not arrive at it suddenly; we were working towards that end all the time. The 
battle is on before the war; the preparation is there. As Kesriji said, factories are working, 
people are working and training is going on. All that goes into the ultimate winning of the 
war. When you are having talks, you proceed gradually. Immediate decision does not come 
because naturally during the talks you make certain points and so on. But the preparation 
is there all the time. With every meeting you are moving. The agreement was signed at a 
certain time. Well, that was because of circumstances. A dinner had been arranged. It was 
a formal dinner; it could not be postponed. A Press Conference had been arranged; that 
could not be postponed. Obviously, the final thing had to wait until after all this was over. 
If we could have said, “Let us postpone those and finish the business” well, that business 
could perhaps have been completed by Six O’clock. It need not have waited for so long. 
These are all small points. 


It is not my intention to compare this agreement with the Tashkent one because as I 
have said, the situation, the circumstances in both the countries, the attitudes of the people 
all are entirely different. But since my hon. friend opposite has quoted President Bhutto at 
such length. I shall also refer to a remark. President Bhutto has said that he had not accepted 
the Tashkent Agreement. He did not accept it while he was in Tashkent. He went back 
and told his country he had not accepted it and, according to him, his country also did not 
accept. Well, whether it was so or not I do not know. He has said this. but the Simla 
Agreement he has accepted and other parties in Pakistan have accepted it. Whether we 
like him or nct, he has also got elected with a fairly big majority. His party has the majority 
there but even in places where he has not, other parties have accepted the agreement. 
President Bhutto is trying, and I think trying with success, to get the people of Pakistan to 
accept it. Just as there are some voices in India against it, there are voices in Pakistan 
against it. So, this is also a big difference between the two agreements. 


Now I do not want to go into the business of the United Nations. Quiet honestly I am 
not bothered whether they go to the United Nations or whether they do not go to the United 
Nations. I am sure of ourselves, I am sure of whatever delegation we send there. If Pakistan 
goes to the United Nations we can meet them there. I have no fear of their getting away 
with anything at the United Nations. If they want to go to war—as I said, we do not want 
to go to war—we should like to do everything possible not to have war. But if they attack 
us we are prepared for that also. I am not afraid of that I have full confidence in our armies; 
I have full confidence in our people. These are all false bogeys or red herrings to divert us 
from our real path. 


Mention was made of opportunity. This was the very first opportunity we have had of 
making a new beginning towards peace and we have grasped that opportunity. If we hac 
let this opportunity pass, I do not think it would have come our way again at least in this 
generation. So-we have not let any opportunity go. 


In his brilliant and lucid speech, the hon. Member, Shri V.P. Dutt, said that we respond 
to situations. Of course we respond to situations but I hope he will concede that we also 


827 


take some initiatives; we also make moves which will create new situations. We do not 
always wait for a situation to develop. From the beginning we have taken a number of 
steps'and we do not intend to let the initiative out of our hands. As in this country so abroad 
also our tactics have not been the tactics of confrontation even with the Jana Sangh much 
as they would take to provoke us. Occasionally some of our Members do get provoked 
but I do not think that this gains us anything and I have never supported this sort of thing. 
My way of handling situations, is entirely different here or anywhere. It is to work for a 
situation which is conducive to certain thinking action. Now, the Jana Sangh was very 
vocal against socialism: we do not hear that now. The Jan Sangh was very vocal against 
non-alignment; we do not hear that now. And not only the Jana Sangh. You will not hear 
such remarks from almost anybody 1n public now. A situation is created, public opinion is 
created in which such remarks are not acceptable. It is in our hands to create a situation 
where on a larger screen, even in intemational affairs, certain things do not happen. I cannot 
prophesy that all will go as we want but we do have a certain strength, a certain initiative 
in our hands and if we can use it to good purpose that is a much better way them to 
aggravate the atmosphere of confrontation. Now if I say something about the Jana Sangh 
they may be very upset but one thing has to be said 115 too important to let pass; otherwise 
I do not like provoking anyone Shr Pranab Kumar Mukherjee drew our attention to a valid 
point. During the Bangladesh struggle the Jana Sangh were not really concerned with the 
people of Bangladesh, they were interested in how they could exploit the situation for party 
ends. I am sorry that they have dealt with the present situation of some of the refugees 
who have come over to Rajasthan and Gujarat in the same manner. Some words have been 
uttered, as they were in the other House, which can bring great harm to those people. They 
do not affect me in any way; they do not affect our party in any way; but they can cause 
trouble for the people living there. This is why I asked the hon. Member not to utter them. 


I was also sorry regarding and the manner in which Shri Misra spoke about Kashmir. 
Here also it is not a question of what I say about the people of Kashmir or what the hon. 
Member who actually comes from the valley says. What is the test of a people’s loyalty ? 
The test is that every time there was an invasion of Kashmir, the people of Kashmir stood 
solidly by India. Does this not show that they are with us ? To doubt their loyalty and 
sincerity is not good—I am not saying that the hon. Member is deliberately echoing the 
remarks of some foreigners, some enemies of India. For an Indian to say such thing does 
not help the situation in any way. I should like to express my deep appreciation of the 
past that in spite of religion being evoked—and we know that when religion is injected 
into any arguments people sometimes tend to lose their rationality—the people of Kashmir 
have been solidly with us in every crisis and I have no doubt they will remain so. I am not 
afraid of any speeches. The actions which the hon. Member considers necessary are such 
as we might take if we were afraid we are not afraid. We know we can face the situation. 
We think that this is a better way to handle people rather than being frightened or giving 
the impression—that we are frightened. 


There was some talk about our relations with our smaller neighbours. We want to have 
good relations with all our neighbours and we have done everything possible to convince 
them of our friendship for them, of our concern for them and of our desire to help them 


but whether the sort of jingoistic and chauvinistic speeches which are sometimes made in 
the House or outside, it is for the hon. Members themselves to consider will inspire 
confidence in these small countries. If the feeling is created that we are out to get what 
we can in a chauvinistic manner, will these countries be confident of these safety ? I am 
Just posing the question. 


I think it was Shri D.P. Singh who said that I have changed President Bhutto. I make 
no such tall claim. Events have changed him and it is in our hands to see and guide events 
in such manner that he remains changed, that he remains convinced that peace & friendship 
are in his interest, and in the interest of Pakistan. 


So, Sir, the basic issue before us is, what sort of world do we want ? Are we concerned 
with the world or are we concerned only with India and do we think that India can develop 
isolated from the world ? The Jana Sangh, although born much later than our party, lives 
somewhat in the past and, if I may say so, they look further back, into the more remote 
past. We live in the present and we look to the future. It is only by looking towards the 
future and endeavouring to shape the future that the present can be made livable. And to 
make it livable we must have peace. We must have a constructive and creative attitude. 
The Simla Agreement, with all its faults, is a good step. I know that would get a wry face 
from Mr. Bhai Mahavir. 


मर aie aie me मंद और a मः a 


Everything has faults*. Nothing is perfect. it is not only the poet who has said this. In 
the world nothing is perfect. There is no rose without a thorn. There is no solution which 
does not create problems. This 1s part of life itself. There is no life without death. There is 
no point in using the word ‘perfect’. Nothing in life is perfect unless you are willing to 
settle for something much less and call it ‘perfect’, which I am not willing to do. My sights 
are rather higher. So, we are looking towards the future and we believe that the Simla 
Agreement has taken us as step in the right direction. We are in a position to go further 
along that road. So far a we can make out—I have also read Mr. Bhutto’s speech very 
carefully—on the whole the speech does not give the same impression that some isolated 
excerpts had conveyed even to me when I first read the reports in our newspapers. So, it 
seems that President Bhutto also believes that his future and the future of Pakistan lies in 
peaceful neighbourly relations. This 1s all we can hope for. We cannot hope to convert 
him that peace is an ideal situation, or that he must be friends with India for the sake of 
friendship. That is far too much to hope and we are not hoping. We are only hoping that 
conditions will be such that he will realise—as he does seems to do—that this is the only 
way for them. Actually, even between the debate in the Lok Sabha and the debate in the 
Rajya Sabha. I think there has been some slight change in the Jana Sangh attitude, 
(Interruptions) tactics ? Even their substitute motion is an indication. So, I sincerely hope 
that since they have come this little way they will go a little further and will join the whole 
country and prove that they also want peace, cooperation and fnendship with all our 
neighbours so that together we can work towards a better world. 


* Replying to Dr. Bhai Mahavir’s remark : “No, but there are the faults”. 


RR यान काम यम पाया पाक मक ष SP ADIT I BOAT? 
BORED 22 22:270:::::::: 2:27: 
Ps PLB 2:०००१४८ eat . 


ae eee on a 


U.N. Membership to China* 


Madam, my attention has been drawn to some Press reports regarding a statement 
attributed to the Deputy Prime Minister** on the question of our policy relating to the 
recognition of China. In a Press Conference on the 12th September at the Indian Embassy 
in Washington, the Deputy Prime Minister was asked the following question : 


“Will you be in the forefront about the admission of China into the United 
Nations ?” 


The Deputy Prime Minister replied, ‘““We have not been in the forefront in the last 15 
years. That is all I know. Every nation ought to be in the United Nations. That is the stand 
we have taken. But we are not now sponsoring a resolution, but if it is sponsored we will 
certainly vote for it.” The Deputy Prime Minister was further questioned : 


“Do you mean that there should be two Chinas in the U.N. ?' 


To this he replied, “I do not know. There are at present two countries. Formosa is an 
independent country as it is. And it is a member of the U.N., though in the name of China 
which I don’t understand. 


My attention has also been drawn to some Press reports regarding the alleged 
Clarification issued by the spokesman of the Ministry of External Affairs regarding the 
Statements of the Deputy Prime Minister on China during his visit abroad. I have seen the 
relevant papers and I am satisfied that the spokesman not only did not issue any explanatory 
Clarification about the Deputy Prime Minister’s statement but in fact and quite rightly 
refused to comment on it. He was handed over routine questions by some correspondents 
on the Government of India’s China policy. After obtaining my clearance of the draft 
answers, he gave them to the correspondents. There was no reference to the Deputy Prime 
Minister in these questions and answers. 


There is no change in Government’s China policy. We continue to recognise the People’s 
Republic of China.*** 


de ae कं eo मं Hh मे 


* Statement regarding the reported statement made by the Deputy Prime Minister about ‘Two Chinas”, R.S. Deb., 
20 November, 1967, cc. 163-66. 


** Shri Morarji R. Desai. 
*** An identical statement was made in Lok Sabha-also (L.S. Deb., 15 November, 1967, cc. 740-41) 


वह य Sek कक Soc” «हक Tw Puna te cen की दर है he: पक 2 seh rue? पु अपार Dy My ok 
Beta ee ee OEE आप Br ETE कर 11 02 801 ae ty hie 0 ७ SO gee tie og 5 ate, 8 
2४०76 70% 5 0070 Path कण gol ei ea ae a 


830 


ae 


. 
222 
222: 
रा ) 
Sa 


ASS 


बटन ज जन 
८ 1042 मच 
nS an 
‘Piste 
em 


Both Taiwan and the People’s Republic of China claim to represent the whole of China. 
Neither of them claim that they should be separately recognised and both of them consider 
that Taiwan is an integral part of mainland China. Therefore, neither of them accepts the 


existence of the other. 


wh He मु me a अं ok ak 


But for us to ignore the People’s Republic: of China, which is the large land mass of 
China and which controls the affairs of over 700 million people would, I think, be rather 
unrealistic. [ entirely agree with the hon. Member* that they are not friendly to us. They 
are making very provocative statements and they have, of course, exhibited open hostility 
and have been in conflict with us. All these things are true, but I do not think that this 
situation will change in any way by our changing our policy. As far as gathering information 
is concerned, that is quite a separate matter, and I think we can get the same information 
through other means. 


* Shri Lokanath Misra. 


831 


U.N. Membership to China’ 


Madam, my attention has been drawn to some Press reports regarding a statement 
attributed to the Deputy Prime Minister** on the question of our policy relating to the 
recognition of China. In a Press Conference on the 12th September at the Indian Embassy 
in Washington, the Deputy Prime Minister was asked the following question : 


“Will you be in the forefront about the admission of China into the United 
Nations ?” 


The Deputy Prime Minister replied, “We have not been in the forefront in the last 15 
years. That is all I know. Every nation ought to be in the United Nations. That is the stand 
we have taken. But we are not now sponsoring a resolution, but if it is sponsored we will 
certainly vote for 1.7 The Deputy Prime Minister was further questioned : 


“Do you mean that there should be two Chinas in the U.N. ?” 


To this he replied, “I do not know. There are at present two countries. Formosa 1s an 
independent country as it is. And it is a member of the U.N., though in the name of China 
which I don’t understand.” 


My attention has also been drawn to some Press reports regarding the alleged 
clarification issued by the spokesman of the Ministry of External Affairs regarding the 
statements of the Deputy Prime Minister on China during his visit abroad. I have seen the 
relevant papers and I am satisfied that the spokesman not only did not issue any explanatory 
Clarification about the Deputy Prime Minister’s statement but in fact and quite nightly 
refused to comment on it. He was handed over routine questions by some correspondents 
on the Government of India’s China policy. After obtaining my clearance of the draft 
answers, he gave them to the correspondents. There was no reference to the Deputy Prime 
Minister in these questions and answers. 


There is no change in Government’s China policy. We continue to recognise the People’s 
Republic of China.*** 


oe a she ai a mh औ ae 


* Statement regarding the reported statement made by the Deputy Prime Minister about ‘Two Chinas”, R.S. Deb., 
20 November, 1967, cc. 163-66. 
** Shri Morarji है. Desai. 
*** An identical statement was made in Lok Sabha also (LS. Deb., 15 November, 1967, cc. 740-41) 


830 


Both Taiwan and the People’s Republic of China claim to represent the whole of China. 
Neither of them claim that they should be separately recognised and both of them consider 
that Taiwan is an integral part of mainland China. Therefore, neither of them accepts the 


existence of the other. 


ae ae afc mi मंद a me ae के 


But for us to ignore the People’s Republic of China, which is the large land mass of 
China and which controls the affairs of over 700 million people would, I think, be rather 
unrealistic. I entirely agree with the hon. Member* that they are not friendly to us. They 
are making very provocative statements and they have, of course, exhibited open hostility 
and have been in conflict with us. All these things are true, but I do not think that this 
situation will change in any way by our changing our policy. As far as gathering information 
is concemed, that is quite a separate matter, and I think we can get the same information 
through other means. 


* Shri Lokanath Misra. 


831 


Emergence of an Independent State of South Yemen* 


After more than one century and a quarter of colonial domination, South Arabia today 
emerges as a free and independent nation—The People’s Republic of South Yemen. On 
this auspicious occasion, we extend our greetings and offer our good wishes to the 
Government and the people of the new State. We also pay our tribute to the valiant freedom 
fighters who have laid down their lives during the struggle for their independence. 


There have been close and intimate relations for centuries between India and South 
Arabia. It shall be the earnest endeavour of the Government of India to further strengthen 
our relations with the independent State and also to extend such economic and technical 
assistance as we can and which they may need. 


As the House 15 aware, India has consistently supported the nght to independence and 
sovereignty for the people of South Arabia, and for many years now we have made earnest 
efforts for the achievement of this aim through the United Nations and otherwise. Therefore, 
it is a matter of great satisfaction and pleasure to us that South Arabia is now an independent 
nation. 


The independence of South Arabia is yet another step towards decolonisation in the 
world. It is earnestly hoped that the day is not far off when the remaining colonised peoples 
and countries will also become independent. 


The Government of India has extended recognition to the People’s Republic of South 
Yemen and it is our intention to convert our Commission in Aden into an Embassy with a 
resident Ambassador. The necessary steps in this regard have already been initiated. 


I am sure that all Members of this House, as also the people of India, join me in 
extending a warm welcome to the new State of the People’s Republic of South Yemen in 
the comity of nations and in wishing it a bright future. 


* Statement regarding independence of the People’s Republic of South Yemen, 1.5. Deb., 30 November, 1967, 
cc. 3855—S6. 


832 


Expulsion of Indians from African Countries* 


I can assure the hon. Member** that my heart bleeds as much as his heart bleeds. 1 
have not had the privilege of living there for 30 years but I have visited Zanzibar twice 
and have had the opportunity of meeting many people while I was there, also many people 
who come to India from there come to meet me. 


There are certain difficulties which are inherent in the situation.... 


ae he a 7K मर Hh मर 


They are more than difficulties. I am a little bit limited perhaps of my knowledge of 
the language. I do not want to give a rosy picture at all. That is far from my intention. We 
fully realise the very severe hardship which these people are facing. But there are certain 
historical movements and so on when people have been oppressed and when they gain 
their freedom, they do tend to hit out. In that hitting out they quite often, in fact very often, 
hit out those who are not responsible even. I do not want to go into an exposition of all 
this long history or the reasons which have caused this. In such a situation outside people 
who are there, unfortunately they have lived as outsiders. Many of our Indian friends, 
although I have my full sympathies for them, have not become one with the African people; 
they have lived separately. In fact, if I may say something—that was said to me—on my 
first visit to Kenya. At one of the public meetings one of the African leaders got up and 
said, we hear a great deal from you about Indian culture but there are many Indians living 
here, they have not been interested to show anything of Indian culture. 


> भर 9 i 2c a ie a ak 


Well, this was said, at a public meeting where a very large majority were Indians.*** 
I had also the privilege of having a luncheon in my honour by an Indian family where, 
although that family had been living there for two generations, it was for the first time 
that an Afncan was invited. This was said by this African in front of the host and in front 
of me. 


We have to look at this problem from a proper point of view and as I have said, really 
Our sympathy goes out to those people who have not made these mistakes deliberately. 


* During a Calling Attention regarding the reported expulsion of Indians from Kenya and other States of East Africa, 
R.S. Deb., 22 February, 1968, cc. 1682-89. 


** Dr. B.N. Antani. 
*** Replying to Dr. B.N. Antani’s observation, “That is not true”. 


833 


Perhaps at that time there was a lack of realisation of the situation and also a lack of 
studying the whole historical process of the likely outcome. We warned them that this might 
“happen but they did not heed our warning. 


Now, we do get full reports. It may be that some of the latest events which the hon. 
Member has mentioned, we do not know. We will look into them with great urgency, with 
great seriousness and with sympathy. But I am told that the High Commissioner visited 
Zanzibar in January of this year. And whatever specific points the hon. Member has 
mentioned, as I have said, we will look into them very quickly. 


het मर मे मरे ae ae ae मं 


They* are welcome. If they want to become Indian nationals they will certainly be 
welcome. I have already expressed my deep sympathy to them for their problems and 
troubles. But I would like to assure the hon. Member** that there is no question of any 
duress at all. If they accepted British nationality it was because they thought that thereby 
they would perhaps pay less taxes or be able to save their goods. I do not think that was a 
very right attitude on their part. We on our part are willing to do everything. 


ae ah 3 मे मंध् मं eh मर 
It is obvious, Sir, that if we had a Resident representative it would help in the situation. 


The need for a local representative is felt in many areas and we are trying our best to fill 
these. 


* People of Indian origin. 
** Shri M.M. Dharia. 


Jurisdiction over Katchchativu Island* 


Hon. Members might recall that in the past questions have been asked concerning the 
Island of Katchchativu in both Houses of Parliament. As was stated in reply to question 
No. 896 in the Lok Sabha on the 30th August, 1960. 


There is some controversy between us and the Ceylon Government as regards 
jurisdiction over the Island. 


Fishermen from India and Ceylon use the Island during the fishing season which lasts 
from February to April. There is a small Church which Catholic pilgrims from India and 
Ceylon visit every year during in Saint Anthony’s festival in March. Saint Anthony is the 
patron Saint of fishermen. 


Our High. Commissioner called on the hon. Prime Minister of Ceylon and last week 
our External Affairs Ministry also called the High Commissioner of Ceylon in Delhi. I 
have now received a message from the hon. Prime Minister of Ceylon, both through our 
High Commissioner in Colombo and Ceylon High Commissioner in Delhi, that he is 
agreeable to any matter concerning Katchchativu being discussed in accordance with the 
procedure laid down during my meeting with him in September last year. Hon. Members 
will recall that it was agreed then that “senior officials of the two Governments should 
meet once a year alternately in Colombo and New Delhi to review the progress of India- 
Ceylon relations in all fields and exchange views on other matters of common interest.” 
We appreciate this friendly approach and propose to discuss this in accordance with the 
above procedure which appears adequate to deal with the situation both in our opinion 
and in the opinion of the Ceylon Government. 


It is proposed to discuss the question of this Island with the Government of Ceylon in 
the near future. Bearing in mind our fraternal relations with Ceylon and the fact that we 
have settled several difficult problems with them in a peaceful and fnendly manner, we 
have every hope that this question also can be settled in a similar manner. 

ae अर अर aie af मं fe ae ae 


I agree with the hon. Member.** As a matter of fact this controversy is even longer 
than thirty years, but we do want to settle it in a peaceful manner. I can assure the hon. 
Member that there is no question of having a tribunal or anything like that. 

afc 2K af me afc मै aK ak ae 


* Statement in response to a Calling Attention about the reported occupation by Ceylon of the Katchchativu Island 
in the Palkstrait, R.S. Deb., 4 March, 1968, cc. 3013-17. 


** Shri N.R. Muniswamy. 


Well, naturally we do not want the problem to be further complicated and, therefore, 
we ourselves should also be careful in anything which we do or say. The Ceylon 
Government does have one problem which is that of illegal immigration and that is why 
during this period some people go to the Island. As hon. Members know, it is not inhabited. 
There is no habitation there and there is no drinking water. It is only during the festival in 
March-that people come to the Church there. It is the contention of the Government of 
Ceylon that the people who want to enter Ceylon illegally go there under the garb of 
pilgrims and then proceed to Ceylon. Now, 1 agree with the hon. Member™ that this matter 
should be looked into and, even without its being raised here, this matter was proposed to 
be taken up. 


age मंध और मर मंद a ae fc ak 


The stand has been clarified on the floor of this House, as well as in the other House 
many times, that we have accepted that there is a controversy**. There are even some 
claims. The Government of Ceylon has made certain claims and there is a controversy 
regarding the jurisdiction over this land for many, many years. As far as the word ‘inhabited’ 
is concerned, it was used only to show that there was nobody living there, that there was 
no physical possession of it by any side. That was the point. 


* Shri M.P. Bhargava. 


** Replying to the point raised by Shri Harish Chandra Mathur about the state of habitation in Katchchativa Island 
and the territorial jurisdiction over it. 


De Aaa 


ie "जलन 


Katchchativu Island* 


Mr. Speaker, Sir, I should first like to state that the allegation made by the hon. Member 
Shri Madhu Limaye, that my colleague Shn B.R. Bhagat or I had misinformed or misled 
the House, is baseless. 


On ist March 1968 during the questions and answers which arose on the statement 
made by my colleague, Shri Bhagat, about the Katchchativu Island, the Minister of State 
stated, and I quote : 


So far as the possession of the Island is concerned, this Island is completely uninhabited; 
nobody lives there. There is not even water there. Therefore, it is in nobody’s possession. 


The Minister was not able to complete his reply because of interruptions. 


During the subsequent proceedings hon. Member Shri Kundu suggested that I should 
clarify the point made by the Minister. I stated later as follows : 


As the Minister tried to explain earlier, we do not have the full information at this 
moment. We have had very friendly relations with the people and the Government of 
Ceylon and, I think, the more we say on this issue just now, the more are the chances 
that it may create difficulties. It is better to have fuller information which the Minister 
has already promised. We will make a statement...About occupation, 1f you mean by 
the Army, he (that is the Minister) has said that nobody is in occupation. This does not 
mean title or sovereignty.... 


Hon. Member Shri Limaye said that he had inquired about military, police or civil 
control. I replied and again quote : 


As the Minister has stated this is an uninhabited Island. There is occasionally, I think, 
some religious function at which people go there. I think, with your permission, if the 
hon. Member would be a little patient and wait for us to get fuller information.... 


Coming now to the proceedings of 27th March, hon. Member Shri Limaye observed 
that Shri Bhagat had on the previous occasion given assurance that neither India nor Ceylon 
was in possession of the Island. I then pointed out, and I quote again : 


tI replied immediately when hon. Member raised this question. That possession meant 
that no one had physical possession there. But I also mentioned then that ever since 
illegal smuggling or immigration to Sn Lanka via Katchchativu had begun, it started 
sending its immigration officer there to seek information. 


* Statement regarding the Katchchativu Island, L.S. Deb., 1 April, 1968, cc. 1216~—19. 
+ Translated from Hindi. 


837 


On Shri Limaye’s point whether Government had information about the presence of 
~Ceylonese Naval craft and of Ceylonese police on the Island, I stated as follows : 


They have Naval patrolling, we also have Naval patrolling. We are anxious to see that.... 
Due to the interruption which followed, I was not able to complete my remarks. 
I later explained, and I quote again : 


As far as Ceylon and Katchchativu is concerned, we had a discussion on it and I - 
explained the situation. Shn Limaye asked a question, and I again say that as far as é 


Naval patrolling 1s concerned, we, both the countries, have been patrolling that area oe 
throughout. But at the time of this particular festival, Ceylon faces a special problem : 
which is that of illegal immigration. It is to check that illegal immigration that they me 
take certain steps and they assured us that they would not do anything this year which रा 
they have not done previously. ... oe 

९22: 3 

As far as the particular newspaper report about this year was concerned, what I actually : 
stated was as follows : | 
We have made inquiries from our High Commissioner there about this matter. Naturally, = 

he will also speak with the Ceylon Government. We are awaiting his report. oe 
There was no question of any mis-statement or of deliberately misleading the House. a 
When my colleague, Shri Bhagat, said that neither side had possession of the Island, he 
made clear what he had in mind, and so did I. As for reports about the presence of 
Ceylonese Naval boats at the Island, at this year’s festival, or the over—flying of the co 0 
Ceylonese aircraft, and so on, what I stated was that we were making inquiries and awaiting 
reports. eS 
I might add that we are examining the entire matter fully. We are also examining the ~ . 
documents including those of the Raja of Ramnad. There is no question of any mis- . : 
statement on our part. te 
Sir, when this question came up on the previous occasions, I had referred to our friendly रा 


relations with the Government and people of Ceylon. I had appealed that we should not a 
say or do anything which might cause embarrasment to our relations with this friendly रा 
neighbour. I had also discussed the matter with some hon. Members from the Opposition. oe 


There has been general appreciation in the House of the need for restraint and caution in = y 
raising the matter on the floor of the House. Therefore I do sincerely regret that hon. # 
ember Shri Limaye should have again chosen to bring up the matter in this form. : 

i 


Efforts to Bring Normalcy in Sri Lanka* 


Mr. Speaker, Sir, last week I announced that the President of Sri Lanka was sending a 
personal representative to New Delhi to discuss the situation in Sri Lanka with me. Mr. 
H.W. Jayewardene, this special emissary, is now in Delhi. He has had discussions with 
me as also with our Minister for External Affairs.** 


I conveyed to Mr. Jayewardene the deep concern of our Parliament and of the people 
of India at the recent happenings in Sri Lanka and our distress at the human suffering 
resulting therefrom. We have always condemned such violence, killings and discrimination, 
especially when the victims are defenceless. 


I took the opportunity to reassure Mr. Jayewardene that India stands for the 
independence, unity and integrity of Sri Lanka. India does not interfere in the internal affairs 
of other countries. However, because of the historical, cultural and such other close ties 
betweén the peoples of the two countries, particularly between the Tamil community of 
Sri Lanka and us, India cannot remain unaffected by such events there. 


Mr. Jayewardene told us that the situation in Sn Lanka is fast returning to normal. 
According to him, the number of people in refugee camps has come down from 80,000 to 
30,000. He said that most people are returning to their homes, but the Government would 
still be left with the problems of the several thousand people who have been rendered 
homeless. The Sri Lanka authorities are making arrangements for their relief and 
rehabilitation for which a special agency of the Government has been set up. 


The tragic sufferings of Indian nationals and the people of Indian origin, living in Sn 
Lanka have aroused spontaneous sympathy from all sections of our people. This was 
movingly expressed in debates in our Parliament in the last few days. The immediate task 
before us is to provide succour to those who have suffered in the disturbances. The 
Government of India are doing whatever they can to render relief to the affected persons. 
But this is a big task which the Government cannot accomplish alone; public co-operation 
is important. I have, therefore, decided to constitute a “Sri Lanka Relief Fund” and a “Sri 
Lanka Relief Fund Committee” under my chairmanship with an initial contribution of 
Indian Rs. 1 crore (i.e. ten million) from the Prime Minister’s National Relief Fund. I appeal 
to my fellow citizens including those living abroad, to contribute generously to the Fund 


* Making a Statement regarding the Situation in Sri Lanka, LS. Deb., 12 August, 1983, cc. 321-24. 
** Shri PV. Narasimha Rao. 


and thereby express their anguish and sympathy for the unfortunate victims of this senseless 
violence in a tangible and positive manner. 


Sir, in reply to my question about the recent law vesting damaged and abandoned 
properties in the Government, Mr. Jayewardene explained that this measure was taken in 
the interest of the affected persons to prevent distress sales, unlawful occupation and other 
such possible misuse. 


I conveyed to Mr. Jayewardene that while measures were being taken to meet the 
immediate situation, the process of finding a permanent solution to satisfy the legitimate 
aspirations, and to ensure the security, of the Tamil minority will have to be urgently 
initiated. 


Mr. Jayewardene has conveyed the following information to me : 


The President of Sri Lanka had intended to place before the Round-Table Conference, 
which could not be held, certain proposals, which included (a) full implementation of the 
laws relating to the District Development Councils; (b) the use of Tamil as provided for 
in the Constitution as a national language; (c) to initiate a dialogue on amnesty on condition 
that violence will be given up; (d) discontinuance of the active role of the armed forces in 
Jaffna on the cessation of terrorist violence; and (e) the repeal of the Prevention of Terrorism 
Act. 


~ 


In addition, he said, if the idea of a separate State is abandoned the President is willing 
to discuss the release of those detained in prisons not already convicted or awaiting trial, 
and to implement any other assurance contained in the 1977 manifesto of the UNP. I am 
sharing this information with hon. Members. 


I expressed my view that these proposals may not meet the aspirations of the Tamil 


community. Mr. Jayewardene told me that the Sn Lankan Government are willing to . 


consider any other proposals, which would give the Tamil minority their due share in the 
affairs of their country, within the framework of a united Sn Lanka. I give my opinion 
that discussion between the Government and the Tamil community on this broader basis 
would be useful and that a solution has to be sought at the conference table. I offered our 
good offices in whatever manner they may be needed. Mr. Jayewardene expressed his 
appreciation of this offer made in the context of the traditional friendly ties between our 
two countries. He later informed me that his President welcomes the offer. 


The need of the hour is to reduce tensions and establish confidence. I hope that all 
concemed will feel able to meet at the Conference table in an atmosphere of goodwill and 
mutual trust to settle their problems. 


Through Mr. Jayewardene, the President of Sri Lanka, has conveyed an invitation to 
our Parliament to send an all-party delegation to visit Sri Lanka. 


The House will agree that the situation arising out of the events in Sri Lanka is serious 
and highly complex, and needs careful handling. The Government are dealing with it 


appropriately and will continue to remain in close touch with the Government of Sri Lanka 
and others concerned. I appeal to the House and all sections of our people not to take any 
step which could result in aggravating the problems and hardships of the Tamils in Sri 
Lanka, and at the same time make it more difficult for us to help in the immediate task of 
relief and rehabilitation as well as of finding a lasting solution.* 


* An identical Statement was made by the Prime Minister, Smt. Indira Gandhi in Rajya Sabha also. 
(R.S. Deb., 12 August, 1983, cc. 306-09.) 


841 


Situation in Sri Lanka* 


Mr. Speaker, Sir, last week I informed the House about the outcome of’ my talks with 
President Jayewardene’s Special Envoy. Immediately afterwards, Mr. G. Amirthalingam, 
the Leader of the Opposition in the Sri Lanka Parliament and Secretary-General of the 
TULF, the main party representing the Sn Lanka Tamils, left Jaffna for Delhi. Since his 
arrival on August 14, he has had talk with me in addition to meetings with our Foreign 
Minister and other Members of our Cabinet and Members of Parliament various parties. 
Yesterday, I once again telephoned to President Jayewardene. 


I should like to inform the House of the result of the latest developments. On behalf 
of the TULF, Mr. Amirthalingam has also welcomed our offer of good offices, which, he 
said has introduced a basic change in regard to negotiations between his party and the 
Government of Sn Lanka. For many years, he and his party has sought fulfilment of the 
legitimate rights and aspirations of the Tamil people of the Island within a united Sri Lanka, 
but had failed to get any helpful response. On the contrary, the Tamils have been 
increasingly harassed, and the latest outrages against them have left them totally without 
confidence in negotiations. Mr. Amirthalingam and his colleagues did not find it possible 
to come to the negotiating table on the basis of past offers. However, he feels that.as a 
result of India’s efforts, the picture has changed and, although differences between the two 
sides remain deep, there might now be some possibility of a solution. 


The basic need of the hour is to bring a sense of security among the people of Sn 
Lanka. This in turn can restore confidence in their living together and in working out 
permanent solutions which are satisfactory to the Tamil minority as well as to the Sinhala 
majority. The search for that permanent solution also needs to be undertaken as quickly as 
possible. 


This can best be attempted at the conference table. As I have previously said, it 1s for 
the Sn Lankan Government to decide how and when a conference with the Tamil leaders 
can be brought. But because of our profound concern we have offered to help in whatever 
way we can. To arrive at any settlement, it is necessary for both sides to talk to each other. 
To facilitate this process of dialogue and to give effect to our good offices, I have offered 
to send a special envoy to meet President Jayewardene and others. During my telephone 
call last evening, President Jayewardene agreed to my suggestion. Accordingly, I have asked 


* Participating in the discussion under Rule 193, on the Statement made by the Prime Minister in the House on 12 
August, 1983 on the Situation in Sri Lanka, LS. Deb., 18 August, 1983, cc. 412-14. 


842 


22203 


one of our distinguished and experienced diplomats Shri G. Parthasarathi to undertake this 
delegate and important task. He will visit Colombo next week. 


I asked President Jayewardene about the latest conditions generally regarding security 
and specially in the refugee camps. He told me that they were steadily returning to normal 
and that only a few thousands now remained in the camps. In reply to my question about 
relief supplies, he said they had enough food and clothing but would get in touch with our 
High Commissioner should anything more be needed. 


President Jayewardene and 1 agreed to remain in regular contact. He also agreed that 
his brother, with whom we had useful talks, would continue as his Special Envoy. 


During the repeated discussions in this House, hon. Members have expressed their 
strength of feelings at the course of events. All sections of the people all over our country 
share these feelings, which transcend party and other differences. I am particularly aware 
of the deep emotions of our brothers and sisters in Tamilnadu over these tragic happenings. 
As I said in the other House, the agony of the Tamils in India and elsewhere is that of our 
entire nation. The brutality and insensate violence to which the Tamils of Sri Lanka have 
been subjected were vividly described by Mr. Amirthalingam in his talks here. My 
Government and I personally been conveying our own anguish and concern to the 
Government of Sn Lanka. 


At the same time, we must always bear in mind the effect of anything we say or do. 
Nearly all hon. Members have recognised the delicacy and difficulty of the situation with 
which we have to deal. I am grateful to them for this understanding, and for the support 
they have given to Government’s approach. 


In the circumstances, restraint combined with firmness is called for. These must continue 
to determine our policy. Above all, we wish to assist in bringing about an atmosphere which 
is free of communal tension and conducive to the efforts of the Sri Lankan leaders of all 
communities to achieve a lasting political settlement. We hope both sides will take concrete 
steps towards that end. This is what I want my Envoy to pursue with President Jayewardene 
and others concerned. 


ae BERS STATS Soe te 2५ 
हर चर, x ee ee 
RR ERE 


ay 


The Sri Lankan Tangle* 


Sir, my colleague, Shn Mirdha, will reply to the debate. If I rise now, it is to share my 
growing concern at what seems to be a deteriorating situation in Sn Lanka. 


Hon. Members know and they have referred to the various incidents and events which 
have taken place since we last debated this matter. It has been discussed several times 
before. They have referred to the extensive shelling by the Sri Lankan Navy and what 
happened in Mannar and other places such as Velvettiturai and the killings of many innocent 
people. In fact, the latest news is that more people of Indian origin have been killed. 


Originally I thought of making only some general remarks, but certain points have been 
raised on which I should like to say a few words. 


I want to congratulate Prof. Dandavate, who made a learned and informative speech 
as 1s expected from him. He told us about the origin of the trouble which.is of long standing. 
Various points of view have been expressed here. Although our friend who spoke just now, 
I think Jagpal Singh Ji...(/nterruptions) made a sensible speech and took a national points 
of view. However, he said that we were not doing anything. This is not a fact. Some people 
have said-I am sorry that I was not present when Shri Subramaniam Swamy made most 
of his speech, I heard only the tail end he spoke of interference and said it was only a 
question of degree. This is not so. If we sent anybody to Sn Lanka, it has been with the 
concurrence of the President and the Government of Sr Lanka. We did not announce that 
we would send somebody whether they wanted it or not. If I have telephoned or written, 
that is a normal way of keeping in touch with Heads of other governments and States and 
I have done so even when the matter did not concern India directly. I consult leaders of 
many countries whenever the occasion so demands. I have been in touch with President 
Jayewardene and written or spoken to him whenever a specially disturbing event has taken 
place. Another point needs to be clarified. An hon. Member spoke of Soviet interference 
at the time of Bangladesh. Our agreement with the Soviet Union is not at all a military 
agreement, it is purely a treaty of peace and friendship. So, except that 1t was a moral 
booster at that particular time when nation was feeling a bit low, otherwise it was not 
connected with events in Bangladesh or the subsequent outcome. 


We are deeply concerned about the induction of Mossad in Sn Lanka. The Sn Lanka 
Government have compared this with our having an Israeli Consulate in Bombay. The two 


* Participating in a discussion under Rule 193 regarding the Situation in Sri Lanka, L.S. Deb., 25 August, 1984, 
ce. 156-66. 


issues are not at all at par; there is no comparison between the two. This particulater 
Consulate was set up in the fifties, intended only to provide visa facilities to Indian Jews, 
many of whom live in Bombay or Cochin and that area. Now we do not even have a Consul 
in Bombay. Sri Lanka, on the other hand, is virtually forging a security relationship with 
Israel. These two are very different situations. President Jayewardene told a News 
Conference that he would seek help “from the devil himself” if necessary. The ostensible 
rationalisation given for their decision by President Jayewardene is that he has not been 
able to obtain anti-terrorist assistance from other countries. This explanation is rather 
intriguing to us because we do know, and this has been confirmed by the British 
Government, that British experts have been providing anti-terrorist training to the Sri 
Lankan police since October last. They are attached to the Police Academy at Kalutare in 
the western province and have been helping to raise a special Commando unit there. Similar 
help may also be forthcoming from other countries. 


With regard to the plane, it was a chartered one from the East African Airlines, but 
who chartered it and who or what came on it, we do not know. Anybody can charter a 
plane and use it. However, in the present circumstances, it is intriguing. 


I do not want to blame them if they are not involved, at the same time, I have no 
information to the contrary.* 


In one of today’s newspapers I see a report that the Prime Minister of Sri Lanka, Shri 
Premadasa, has produced an Indian journal, INDIA 2,000 in his Parliament, which sets 
out an alleged Indian plan to invade the Island State last September. I refute this false 
allegation strongly. It is utterly irresponsible for people in the authority to behave like this. 
There was no such plan. And, although I do not like to disappoint my friend opposite, we 
have no such plan for the future either. 


He मर मर मंर ae मे a 3 मं 


We have written or otherwise approached many leaders of other countries, Heads of 
Governments, on events in Sri Lanka to express our grave concern at developments there 
and how the violence and crime are escalating. You have all heard that 500 young people 
were taken away. Their parents were told that they would be returned very soon. Out of 
these, I believe only 100 have come back. But subsequently, about 150 or so others have 
been taken away, and nobody knows where they are. 


When we heard that other countries were approached for military and other assistance 
to put down what was the Sn Lankans call Tamil terrorism, we conveyed our viewpoints 
that it would pose dangers to our security to have foreign forces so closeby. We wondered 
also whether these countries understood the basic nature of the problem and whether they 
would like to get involved in the manner in which we had heard they were being asked to 
do. 


* Responding to Dr. Subramaniam Swamy’s intervention, “Ambarasu knows it is of South Africa”. 


The size of a country has nothing to do with its sovereignty. Somebody has spoken 
“of being Big Brother. We do not believe in this theory. We do not think 1n terms of big or 
small brothers. We believe in the equality of all nations. In the non- aligned movement, 
even though India is the Chairperson, our attitude has been not to flaunt our leadership 
there, or to press our views on others. We try to work in partnership. That may have certain 
weaknesses but, on the other hand it has also its advantages, because one gets greater co- 
Operation. The whole question of Big Brother irritates our smaller neighbours and also 
certain countries which may not be so never. Some Indians refer to special cultural relations 
and so on. This may boost our pride, but it is not welcome in the countries concerned. 


2 i ak Hee मे kk 


Either Big Sister, or Big Brother*. It makes no difference. When we say we are equal, 
it can be equality amongst sisters and equality amongst brothers, just as you like. 


Every country has its national interest at heart and would not like to brook any 
interference from outside, as indeed we ourselves would not like such interference from 
outside in our country. When we speak to Sri Lanka, we speak as a friend and neighbour 
who 1s deeply concermed. 


A question was asked about previous agreements. We had agreed to take 6 lakh people. 
Out of that, 510,000 applied by the last date, which was 30th October, 1981. All these 
have either been registered, or their registration is being processed. 


President Jayewardene has agreed to give Sri Lankan citizenship to this balance of about 
93,000, But.Sir, Sn Lanka, which had agreed to accept 3,75,000 people has so far to this 
date i.e. up to 31st January, 1984, given citizenship only to 1,90,000. The balance is their 
responsibility. The 93,000 to which they have now agreed is in addition to the others. 


As I said earlier, we are doing everything possible to bring people to the negotiating 
table. That is the only way by which a peaceful solution can be found. 


As regards the children and various other matters as I said earlier not only the Foreign 
Office; but I personally have spoken to the Sri Lankan High Commissioner here about the 
fate of the children, the young people there and have also written to President Jayewardene 
on this matter. 


Now, the question before us is whether this issue is one merely of terrorism and law 
and order, as the Sn Lankan authorities claim, and which is the point which President 
Jayewardene made in his last letter to me? In our judgement the problem goes much beyond 
this. It has grown to such dimension, not only because of the cumulative frustrations, but 
also because of the persistent and increasing violence and attacks on the Tamils in Sri 
Lanka. You know how many have been killed and how much of their property has been 
destroyed. Today they all live in great danger. They are daily subjected to torture, 
discrimination, indignity and terror. 


* Replying to Dr. Subramaniam Swamy's question, “What about big sister” ? 


The continuing violation of the basic human rights of the Tamil population has evoked 
deep concern here. We have drawn the attention of the appropriate international agencies 
to these violations. We have voiced our grave anxiety in the Sub-Commission on the 
Prevention of Discrimination and Protection of Minorities and in the Human Rights 
Commission. Earlier on, we have sent financial help through the League of Red Cross 
Societies. It has also evoked worldwide concern. One hon. Member spoke about the concern 
of some Western countries which are giving Sri Lanka financial and other aid. They are 
examining the situation and are worried. 


The problem there 1s indeed a very complex one. The majority of the Tamils are in the 
North where it is sought to oppress them. Then there are Tamils in the Eastern Province, 
where the majority community of the whole of Sn Lanka ie. those of Sinhalese ongin, 
have been inducted and settled there so as to reduce the strength of the Tamils there. And 
finally there are those who are called Tamils of Indian origin. Of course, you have rightly 
pointed out that they all are originally of Indian origin, but now I am not talking of those 
who went long long ago but of those who were taken by the British about a hundred years 
ago. They are the ones who are normally referred to as Tamils of Indian origin. These are 
scattered in and around Colombo, on the Highlands and other parts of Sri Lanka. 


Sir, some elements may be interested in aggravating the situation so that there 1s excuse 
for intervention from outside. We have to be very careful about this. We are keeping the 
situation under close watch. But we do not wish to say or do anything that might worsen 
the situation and make the problem more acute for the Tamils. On the other hand, we have 
to be alert about the activities of foreign agencies. The Island is very close to us, only 
about twelve miles away. Obviously we can not remain unconcerned. It is not at all the 
same as some of the other instances that were pointed out. This is not the occasion to discuss 
the presence of the Soviet troops in Afghanistan. Our view is quite clear. We do not approve 
of foreign troops or any type of interference and we have made this clear to all concerned. 
The Sri Lankan problem is entirely different. We are interested in ending the repression 
on, and the killing of, the Tamil population there. 


And this will only happen, this stage can only be reached when there are serious 
negotiation for a viable political settlement which is acceptable to all concerned. 


Whenever we say that India should advise or make itself felt, it does not help the ethnic 
minority because It irritates the majority community, which retaliates on the Tamils. 
Therefore, even when we talk to the President or his representative, our attitude is one of 
how to get them to propose something that will be acceptable to the Tamils as well as all 
the other communities. (Interruptions). The President made certain proposals. He also had 
certain ideas which he said he might propose, depending on the atmosphere and on what 
other parties say. He said, ‘I have to win over the other people’. Whatever it was, as you 
know, he first mentioned the Second Chamber, which was unacceptable to the TULF. The 
other day in a press interview, President Jayewardene was reported to have stated that the 
Sri Lankan Government was willing to consider Provincial Councils as units of devolution 
for the entire country. While the District Councils will remain to begin with, over a period 
of time there would be Provincial Councils to which Ministers can be answerable. The 


a rite 2:72 BEN a eet Soh Na Re ENO RT ROMANTIC nt AS SOS SO CARAS NAT NORRIE ENT CES 
SS Sse nas Sines 220 ९2 ५ See 
Be 08702 re annem ne SER 
ay RE ee ee ABS ee oe 20020 22005 
ASE nO nen Oe SRO Rae ee te ety Oe 


847 


formation of the Provincial Councils will be an organic part of the second Chamber. This 
seems to be an improvement on the proposals which were outlined by the President at the 
All Parties, Conference on July 23rd. I might mention that the minority parties and groups 
including Tamils, Muslims and Christians—these Muslims and Chritians are also Tamils, 
but I am only separating them because.... 


ae ae मु a ah a ae 2 ak 


Well not religion-wise*, but initially the Sri Lankan Government was regarding the 
Muslims as separate and telling us that they were not supporting the movement. That is 
the only reason why I am mentioning them separately, I don’t want to divide them up into 
religious groups. But Muslims have also been killed, their properties have also been 
destroyed and they also feel aggrieved. So, these minority groups as well as, I believe, 
some other political parties including the Communist Party of Sri Lanka have advocated 
the setting up of Provincial Councils. Recently.the Sri Lankan Freedom Party is also said 
to have supported the proposal. So it 1s our hope that these ideas will be fully discussed at 
the All Parties Conference scheduled to be reconvened on the 29th or whenever it meets 
and a viable political solution worked out. 


As most Members have indicated, this is a matter of concern not only to our sisters 
and brothers of Tamil Nadu, but to the entire nation. It is our hope that a place of honour 
and security for the Tamil population can be found within a united Sri Lanka through the 
democratic process of negotiations. It was for this that we had offered.our good offices as 
a friendly neighbour. Recently, President Jayewardene has conveyed a message that he 
would like Shri Parthasarathy to visit Sri Lanka again at an appropriate time. Our good 
offices are available to the Sri Lankan Government and we shall continue in our efforts in 
every possible way to seek an early end to the ordeal which the Tamil people there are 
suffering. 


aie fe के eh oh मंद मे ac . 


It has been strongly condemned by the Government**. That is the whole of what I 
have been telling you that we have condemned it. We have written to other Heads of States 
to condemn it. We nave taken it up in the Human Rights Commission. 


I do not know whether that word was used***. The killing, the massacre of the 
Tamilians, these are some of the words which have been used earlier, Whether in letters I 
have written ‘genocide’ I do not now remember. I can look that up. But when I say that 
people are being massacred and whole populations are being sought to be annihilated, I 
think it means the same thing. 


Initially I had offered to send medicines, food, anything that was needed either for the 
refugee camps or other places. At that time we were told that everything needed was 


* Clarifying the point raised by Dr. Subramaniam Swamy, “Because of religion” ? 
** Responding to Shri K. Mayathevar’s observation that genocide had not been condemned. 
**® Responding to Dr. Subramaniam Swamy’s question, “Are you calling it a genocide 7” 


available. At that time they did not allow the Red Cross. But later we have been helping. 
We have given Rs. 60 lakhs on Government to Government basis and Rs. 54 lakhs through 
the Indian Red Cross. But naturally if more is needed, it can be considered even though 
we are not flush with funds. We shall certainly help in whatever way we can. 


The Red Cross itself does not go in. The Red Cross goes only in a war situation. But 
the League of Red Cross Societies helps in such situations. 


wt 
ee 


Naser 
ered 
नाक 


1००, 


न कक्ष 


panei te 
हि 
wate 
Seton 
RA ae 
wre  e 
weet न 
Te! 
Saas 
wna tee 
5, 
Rae 
6 


Ber ate 


Pre ately 
न 
eee 
aN 
ला 
ee neat 


paras 


Seen 
wee ne 
ae ed 
ra ५ ५ 
ate ea 
cele pleted 
‘ona ०८० 
५.) ०४० 
"०००५ 
जि हे 
"जन 
aca ०(०“२ 
state 


Execution of Africans in Southern Rhodesia* 


Sir, I wanted to draw the attention of the House to an event elsewhere in Africa, in 
that part of the Continent which 18 still disfigured by racism. We have learnt with 
inexpressible sorrow that the South Rhodesian regime has perpetrated a heinous crime by 
executing three Africans. The world has followed their fate with great anxiety in the last 
few days. This monstrous deed of the white racist regime evokes our wrath and our 
condemnation. I am sure everyone in the House and the country will condemn this 
barbarous act and honour the name of the three African martyrs: James Dhlamini, Victor 
Mhlambo and Duly Shadreck. 


ae ok मु me ae के 1K OK a 


I think the sense of the House 18 that the House should stand in silence for gone minute. 


* Statement regarding ‘Execution of Africans by Southern Rhodesian Government’, L.S. Deb., 6 March, 1968, 
cc. 2045-47. 


ND 


Execution of African Patriots in Southern Rhodesia* 


Sir, the news came to us after this hon. House had risen last evening. Therefore, I was 
able to make the statement in the other House but not here. Sir, this House has no doubt 
followed with horror the barbarous and inhuman act perpetrated yesterday in that part of 
the African Continent in which the dark forces of racial discrimination continue to disfigure 
and debase human life. 


The illegal regime in Southern Rhodesia has committed a grave and heinous crime 
against humanity by executing three African patriots. The world has followed their fate 
with great anxiety in the last few days. This monstrous deed on the part of the White racist 
regime naturally evokes the anger and indignation of the entire Indian people. No word 
can be strong enough to condemn this despicable action. Sir, I am sure everyone in the 
House and the country will join me in severely condemning this monstrosity and also in 
paying homage to the memory of the three brave martyrs, Victor Siferani Malambo, James 
David Dhlamini, and Duly Shahreck. Sir, if you and the hon. House agree we night stand 
up for a minute in silence as a mark of respect to the memory of these martyrs. 


aK a oe He 2c ic aK मर अप 


Sir, I have already expressed in no uncertain terms how I personally and how the 
Government feels in regard to this matter. Therefore it is clear to the hon. Members that 
the Government shares their feeling regarding this dastardly act of the illegal Government 
of Southern Rhodesia. I have had some personal knowledge also because, when I was in 
Salisbury some years ago, the ten British Government representatives came to see me, the 
whites were allowed but all the African leaders who were coming to see me were arrested 
at the gate of the Airport only for the duration of my stay at the Airport. They were released 
after my plane had taken off. So, we have been in touch with them at many levels. We are 
fully aware of the grave dangers of racialism and of the racial policy which is being 
followed in South Africa and in Southern Rhodesia. 


But I want to protest very strongly against some of the words uttered by the hon. 
Member, Shri Niren Ghosh, when he tned to put the blame for this on the Government of 
India... (Interruptions). Ever since the Government has come into power it has strongly 
and consistently taken up this matter at the United Nations and in all international bodies, 
at all meetings with Heads of States and other leaders, whether from Africa or other parts 


* Statement regarding execution of three African patriots by the illegal regime in Southern Rhodesia, 
R.S. Deb., 7 March, 1968, cc. 3646-47, 3654-56. 


Nit hha TANS 
Aid Adie es 


x 


Sree SIS 
ere 
Sverre 


ee 
(०५० 
प्र 


eens 


BoP टच ee 
Boa 2702 
पद 5 
SSE mee wh ny 522८ के ५ ec - : 
rate ; : 
RI Sits SNR Sai an 4 04720 CUES Ne SEDI CREO Lene UN Alaa ONENESS ae LES SA a) ca a 30 राशि toate पा can REE AEP Ny Seed 
ee. hee ete! ‘ ee eT Pe EY es के! oteny ०,००0 Ot eRe Le Ls Oe. 


(नर "२७४ 


851 


of the world. Even before independence we were in touch with the African leaders and 
supporting their cause, for which they have expressed their appreciation many a time. 


me के a मु मर मं ae मं! मर 


Sir, it is true that had the government of the U.K. taken stronger steps, they could have 
prevented this tragic happening. The Government of India have been talking to them about 
this matter and expressing their views very strongly. 


Now about one or two points, I must say that although we stand for a policy of peace, 
at no time has this meant giving in to force or yielding to pressure of any kind. Whether 
we use the word ‘Ahimsa’ or ‘Shanti’, it is not out of fear or because of pressure from 
any quarter. We have always stood up against oppression, against injustice of every kind. 
So, that question does not come in. But the question does come in as to what action is 
proper and what action will yield results. Hon. Members, for instance, have referred to 
the question of the Commonwealth. Now the Commonwealth does not consist merely of 
white people. The majority of the countries there in fact are not countries of white people; 
they are Asians and Africans. Therefore, this matter should be considered from that aspect. 


With regard to military aid also, India has supported the view that the matter may have 
to be dealt with by helping the freedom fighters militarily but in what way this should be 
done, it is not possible for me to say here. 


independence of Mauritius* 


Mr. Chairman, Sir, I am sure the House will join me in greeting the advent of freedom 
in Mauritius and in warmly welcoming independent Mauritius to the comity of nations. 
As the House is aware, a delegation led by my colleague, the Minister of State for External 
Affairs, Mr. Bhagat, is in Mauritius at the moment rejoicing with its free people and sharing 
their sense of fulfilment at this long awaited liberation from colonial rule. 


Sir, we wish the people of Mauritius all success in the endeavour upon which they 
will now embark as a free people to develop their multi-racial society and to further their 
socio-economic progress. We look forward to preserving and promoting goodwill and 
understanding between our two peoples and to growing mutual co-operation in the sphere 
of socio-economic development. 


May I request you, Sir, on behalf of this House and the people of India to convey to 
the Government and people of Mauritius our sincere good wishes on this joyous occasion? 


* Statement regarding the attainment of independence by Mauritius, R.S. Deb., 12 March, 1968, cc. 4298-99. 


setae ORT, ths im tis ay aa 


india and Disarmament* 


On the 7th March, 1968, the U.S.A., the Soviet Union and the U.K. presented to the 
Eighteen-Nation Disarmament Committee, Geneva, a draft resolution on security 
assurances, which they are prepared to sponsor in the Security Council. The text of this 
draft is laid on the Table. The sponsors are willing to back this draft with unilateral 
declarations to the effect that they will seek immediate Security Council action to provide 
assistance in accordance with the U.N. Charter, if a non-nuclear State which is party to 
the Treaty on the non-proliferation of nuclear weapons becomes the victim of an act of 
aggression, or an object of the threat of aggression in which nuclear weapons.are used. 
They will also reaffirm the right which is recognized under Article 51 of the U.N. Charter, 
of individual and collective self-defence until the Security Council takes action. 


The E.N.D.C. will shortly send a report on its work concerning the draft Treaty on 
non-proliferation of nuclear weapons to the General Assembly. The two sponsors viz. the 
U.S.A. and the U.S.S.R. have further revised the draft Treaty in one or two minor respects 
of a procedural character. This draft Treaty, together with the draft resolution on security 
assurances, will now be forwarded to the General Assembly of the U.N. for further 
consideration. It 1s understood that the General Assembly is likely to reconvene sometime 
next month to consider this matter. 


I should like to place before hon. Members certain broad considerations governing our 
position. Naturally, we welcome the steps taken by nuclear weapon States in consort with 
non—nuclear weapon States to make more effective the role of the United Nations for peace- 
keeping and for providing effective security. The hopes of mankind rest on this. The 
obligation cast by tie Charter on Member States, and more particularly on the permanent 
members of the Security Council, makes it necessary for them to discharge their obligations 
to ensure peace in the world. This should not be contingent on the conclusion of the Non- 
proliferation Treaty. Such an atmosphere of conscientious and conscious effort in the interest 
of peace would, we sincerely feel, be an effective factor in inhibiting the wider 
dissemination of nuclear weapons. From this point of view, a security guarantee cannot 
be made a quid pro quo for signing the Non-proliferation Treaty in its present form. 


We believe in the validity of a step by step approach and do realise that it is not 
possible for a perfect treaty to emerge immediately. However, it 1s reasonable to expect 


* Statement regarding draft resolution to Disarmament Committee, Geneva, on Security Assurances, 
R.S. Deb, 14 March, 1968, cc. 4736-37 and 44. 


the E1ighteen—Nation Disarmament Commission, which was designed to devise measures 
for disarmament, to come forward with some concrete step, even though small, in this 
direction. The present draft Treaty does not promote disarmament. And as long as the 
elaboration of nuclear weapons by nuclear-weapons powers continues unchecked, it does 
not advance the security of the world. Measures which do not involve an element of self- 
restraint on the part of all States—nuclear weapons States as well as non-nuclear weapons 
States cannot form the basis for a meaningful international agreement to promote 
disarmament. India has repeatedly announced that it is not making an atom bomb and that 
she is developing her atomic energy programme exclusively for peaceful purposes. This 
position is based on a national evaluation of all aspects of the problem, including that of 
security. 


me ae a me a oe ae 2 a 


I am glad that on the whole there is great understanding on both sides of the House. 
One question was asked about Government’s view on disarmament . I am a little surprised 
by this, because our view has been clarified and the role we have played in the Disarmament 
Conference is also before the House and the country. We believe in total disarmament and 
India is taking every possible step in consultation with other countries to see that such a 
stage is reached. We do not fee] that this particular Treaty is serving that cause. I think 
some hon. Members have already said that the present draft Treaty will give nuclear 
monopoly to certain nations. Not only the two nations mentioned but under this Treaty all 
nuclear—weapon powers do get certain advantages, thus creating a kind of class of haves 
and a class of have nots. That is one of our main objections to the Treaty. 


With regard to consultations, I am always happy to consult Members of the Opposition 
and all the hon. Members of the House. There was notice given in the other House and I 
felt that if I did not make a similar statement here the hon. Members would not be happy. 


855 


Czech-—Soviet Dispute and India* 


Mr. Speaker, Sir, as the House 1s aware a new leadership assumed office in Czechoslo- 
vakia some months ago. They made known their desire to make certain changes in the 
internal structure and policies of their country. This apparently created certain 
misapprehensions amongst some of their fellow members of the Warsaw Pact Organization. 
There was an exchange of correspondence between the five countries of the Warsaw Pact 
after their recent meeting in Warsaw, and the Central Committee of the Czechoslovak 
Communist Party. The press has carried detailed reports of this correspondence. Following 
these exchanges, a meeting between the representatives of the Communist Parties of the 
Soviet Union and Czechoslovakia was arranged and the leaders of these two parties are at 
present engaged in talks in Czechoslovakia. The outcome of these bilateral discussions 1s 
yet to be known. The Government of India do not consider it desirable to express views 
on the merits of the issues currently being discussed. In view of the sensitiveness of the 
situation, any comment may accentuate the difficulties rather than make a useful 
contribution. Bearing these considerations in mind, most Governments have exercised 
restraint. 


It is our earnest hope that matters pertaining to the policies of Czechoslovakia and to 


her relations with her neighbours will be resolved amicably. We also hope that the processes 
of detente in Europe will continue. 


22 अं 4k OK ae ea 


As I have said the two countries are having talks.** Talks have not broken down. In 
fact, the latest news is that the Chairman of the National Assembly who 1s said to be also 
in favour of reform has said that the atmosphere is optimistic and that the talks are, I think, 
the word he used was promising. In this situation, it would not be wise for us to express 
any opinion. As the situation develops, certainly one can decide what stand one should 
take. As far as the question of non- interference is concerned, I think, we have expressed 
Our views very clearly. Even with respect of Czechoslovakia—I was asked 2 or 3 days ago 
about this matter- I said that our views are the same. 


2 मं ae मं a मै ee 


* Replying to a Calling Attention regarding the Czech-Soviet dispute and the efforts made by the Government of 
India in regard thereto, LS. Deb., 1 August, 1968, cc. 3478-94. 


** Replying to the points raised by Shri Kanwar Lal Gupta. 


We do not believe in interference from outside.* But here the two countries are talking 
and they are trying to settle the thing through talks. 


ai afc oe a ae a मंप् मर ae 


The next part was whether we have kept ourselves in contact with various people. 1 
have not written letters. But we are, through diplomatic channels, in constant contact with 
the representatives of all these countries. The third question was about like-minded people. 
I do not think this is a time to have such a meeting. 


ee 3 मंद मंद 3c ae कद मु 


I am sure you** will not expect me to know or announce the extent of soviet military 
strength. With regard to reports from our Ambassadors, certainly we are receiving reports, 
but I do not think I can place them on the Table of the House..... (/nterruptions). 


af eae af a ae ae ek 


Mr. Speaker, Sir, at present the question is not whether we have sympathy for this side 
or that side. When we confront a serious and delicate situation then it is the duty of the 
Government not to take a step which deteriorates the situation further. We have not drifted 
from our policy at all.f.... 


ac ac अंह a मर ic He 2c ac 


I am not saying this at all.*** This is a country which has close ties with India. It 1s 
not far off from us, rather it is much more closer than many other countries. We had 
traditional relations in the past and even now we are close to each other.t 


I was reminded about an incident which took place 30 years ago. Perhaps hon. Members 
might remember that at that time I was there and had an opportunity to meet all the leaders 
and the people. My personal relations with Czechoslovakia have been very deep and close 
since my childhood. But as 1 have pointed out one should first understand the seriousness 
of a situation and then react; we have already acquainted them with and views. tf 


As regards writing to them, Hon’ble Speaker, Sir, there are so many Governments and 
regimes but none has done this from the government side. Some countries which have 
reacted—their relations are of a different nature. 


aK मर a ae भर akc मंच aie मर 


I would say that this is not the time when we should do something. We have to watch, 
what happens there. I take it for granted that the leaders and the people of Czechoslovakia“ 
understand very well what is in their interest and they are handling the situation well. t 


a A और Me ae ak ae aK मु 


* Responding to Shri Kanwar Lal Gupta’s question: ‘What are your views? That is my specific question.” 
** Replying to Shri Piloo Mody’s remarks: “She has to answer two questions, One is whether they have received 
reports from our diplomats and the second is the extent of Soviet military might in Czechoslovakia.” 
+ Translated from Hindi. 
*** Replying to Shri M.L. Sondhi's remarks: “Chamberlain also said that it was a far off country. She 1s directly 
following Chamberlain.” 


857 


India does stand and will always continue to stand for justice, liberty and that peace. 
There is no question about that.* 


MK मु eK के a aie ae 


I am glad to see this new found friendship for Czechoslovakia on the other side, and 
if I may say so, I think it will greatly embarrass the Czechoslovak leaders and people.** 


ak कट ak me ye कर me के a 


We are close enough to the Czechoslovak people and leaders for them to understand 
exactly where we stand. 


me fe ak ae he ae मंप्क sh 


Our attitude always has been friendly towards them. Surely, you*** do not want that 
to change. | 


It is a question of jugement and assessment of what helps in a particular situation and 
what does not help, and it is our assessment that at this moment it will not help to express 
specific views on this matter. As far as our views on democracy and on greater liberalisation 
are concerned, there is absolutely no doubt that we have stood for these things in all parts 
of the world, and we do not change our attitude towards these in this case either. As I 
said, I am sure the Czechoslovak leaders and people fully appreciate our point of view in 
this. 


* Responding to Shri Samar Guha’s question: “I want to know from the Prime Minister whether as the representative 
of one nation which in its Constitution had enshrined the words “Equality, Demucracy and Freedom,” this 
Government will categorically welcome the wind of liberalisation and democratisation that is taking place in the 
polity of Czechoslovakia?” 

** Reacting to Shri Piloo Mody’s remark: “Except in Czechoslovakia.” 
*** Referring to Shri Piloo Mody. 


India’s Stand on the Crisis in Czechoslovakia* 


Mr. Speaker, Sir, it is with a heavy heart and with a profound sense of concem that I 
have to report to this House certain events which are currently taking place in 
Czechoslovakia. 


We have always been deeply committed to the cause of freedom everywhere. We have 
stood for certain principles as guiding and informing our attitude to international events. 
The principle of non-interference by one country in the internal affairs of another constitutes 
the very basis of peaceful co-existence. We have always believed that international relations 
should be governed by respect for the sovereignty and independence of nations, big or 
small. We have always stood for the right of every country to develop its personality 
according to its own traditions aptitudes and genius. India has always raised her voice 
whenever these principles have been violated. 


ae ak ae ah ak ak ae oh ak 


Sir, the House is aware of the reports which have come through the world Press and 
radio as to the nature of the developments which have taken place in Czechoslovakia. We 
have also made enquiries from the diplomatic missions of the countries concemed as well 
as others and continue to be in close touch with them. The armed forces of the Soviet 
Union and four of its Warsaw Pact allies began crossing the Czechoslovak borders at about 
03.30 hours IST. They are now reported to be in Prague and other towns of Czechoslovakia. 


In the early hours of this morning, the Soviet Government, through their Charged’ 
Affairs in New Delhi, informed us that the Governments of the Soviet Union and four of 
its Allied countries of the Warsaw Pact had decided to send their armed forces into 
Czechoslovakia. Hon. Members have presumably seen the statement which had since been 
put out by the Soviet news agency, Tass, stating the view point of the Soviet Government 


मं: मर भर af ok 9k eae मंद 


Although it was only after our own independence that we were able to establish 
diplomatic relations with the republic of Czechoslovakia, we have a long history of 
friendship towards Czechoslovakia and its valiant people. I recall, as I am sure many of 
my colleagues on both sides of the House will remember, the tragic and fateful events of 


* Statement on the situation in Czechoslovakia, L.S. Deb., 21 August, 1968, cc. 3444-51. 


1938 and 1939. Even then our sympathies were with the people of Czechoslovakia in their 
“‘trayail and my father gave poignant expression to them. I am sure that the House will join 
me in conveying to the people of Czechoslovakia the profound concern at the turn which 
events have taken so soon after what appeared to be a peaceful resolution of problems 
and differences between Czechoslovakia and its allies. 


Our relations with the Soviet Union, Poland, Hungary and Bulgaria are close, and 
many-—sided. We value these friendships and wish to preserve and extend them. However, 
we cannot but give expression to our anguish at the events in Czechoslovakia. This House 
will no doubt wish to convey to them our view that they should carefully consider all aspects 
of the situation which has arisen as a result of the action by their armed forces and its 
possible consequences. 


We are deeply aware of the fears which have gripped Europe, and the conflicts which 
have raged there leading to two world wars. These fears still haunt the minds of the 
European people . 


I am sure I reflect the opinion of the House when I express the hope that the forces 
which have entered Czechoslovakia will be withdrawn at the earliest possible moment and 
the Czech people will be able to determine their future according to their own wishes and 
interests, and that whatever mutual problems there may be between Czechoslovakia and 
its allies, will be settled peacefully. The right of nations to live peacefully and without 
outside interference should not be denied in the name of religion or ideology. 


aK 2k मंप aK 3 मैप a ae ae 


*Mr. Speaker, Sir, when I rose to make the statement in this House yesterday on the 
situation in Czechoslovakia, I said that I was doing so with a heavy heart and with a 
profound sense of concern. I chose my words with deliberation and with a great deal of 
thought. 


There are moments in history when grave responsibilities are cast on Government in 
whatever they say or do. This is one such moment. The dictates of wisdom enjom upon 
us to tread carefully and with great circumspection and, when we are in front of an 
avalanche, not to make too much noise which—my hon. friends who have done any 
mountaineering will know-—increases the force of an avalanche. I say this not to engage in 
metaphor but to try to convey to the House the real gravity of the situation. It 1s easy to 
give vent to one’s feelings and it is easy enough to condemn. But, Mr. Speaker. let me 
say that I am not insensitive to the views expressed by the Hon. Members. As I have said 
on a previous occasion, I myself have had the closest connections and personal fnendship 
with Czechoslovakia and her people. So I myself do feel very strongly on these matters, 
not only as a Government but also, if I may say so, as a person. But after we have given 
expression to our feelings the political realities remain and Government has to deal with 
them. 


* Replying to the debate on a Motion on the Prime Minister's Statement regarding the Situation in Czechoslovakia, 
LS. Deb., 22 August, 1968, cc. 459-65. 


Yesterday, I voiced our feelings in which, I am-sure, the sentiments of this House 
were also included, for the Government and the people of Czechoslovakia. I expressed 
the hope that it would be possible to restore the normal and legally constituted Government 
of Czechoslovakia. We earnestly hope that even now it would be possible for this to happen. 
We earnestly hope that it may still be possible to resolve the differences by the conflict of 
argument, discussion and debate, not by force. Only that way can there be any durable 
settlement. This again is the view that the Government has held on all similar problems 
that these political differences, political conflicts, cannot be resolved by means of force. 


Here, I would like to express my deep concern for the safety and welfare of the Czech 
Government and the party leaders and I am sure, the House will join me in this. 


We are specially concerned with what has been happening because over the years we 
have been working in the lessening of tensions and we have been working for the softening 
of the cold war atmosphere. This action of armed forces entering Czechoslovakia has, with 
one blow, reversed the situation. It has immediately taken us back, over the years, as if all 
this long work of bringing people together or getting them together or getting them find 
peaceful solution has been overnight wiped out. 


Naturally it is of concern to us and we feel that it is of concern for peace in the world. 
Hon. Members have urged upon the Government to play a role at the U.N. We ourselves 
are anxious to do so. Our country has the honour to be a member of the Security Council. 
Under the UN Charter, the Security Council is the sole forum for the consideration of 
Security matters. I wonder if it would be night for a Government which is a member of 
the Security Council to statutes is position on the issues which are going to be 
discussed....(/nterruption). We should not do anything which might prejudice our role in 
the Security Council....(/nterruption). 


2k ak 2 ak ak Hk ak 


I think hon. Members are deliberately trying to give slants to my statement. They have 
sought to prove that I have not spoken out on the side of Czechoslovakia, or perhaps that 
I have not spoken out strongly enough. Does courage lie merely in words? Venerable 
Acharyaji reminded us of Gandhiji. Gandhiji did not often use strong words. But he did 
teach us to act fearlessly and firmly, and in our reaction to what has happened in 
Czechoslovakia, I do not think we have been timid or that we have hesitated. We have 
very firmly stated.... 


3c 3c भर ae 2 भर fc aft ah 


I should like to assure the House that we shall always uphold the United Nations’ 
Charter on which rests the hope of mankind for a peaceful world. This we have always 
done, this we shall always do, and we shall work to ensure that the Charter rights of 
Czechoslovakia are safeguarded in every way. This obviously depends on how the matter 
comes up there. I can assure this House that just as we are interested as a member of the 
Security Council and as a member of the United Nations Organisation in upholding the 
sacred principles of the Charter, we are equally wedded to certain basic and fundamental 


861 


principles to which we have adhered all these years, and I would like—with the permission 
‘of the House, to restate them. 


We (India) ardently and sincerely believe that every State should be left free and 
unfettered to decide its own future and its own destiny. We believe that there should be 
no....(Interruption) external interference in the affairs of any country. Thirdly force should 
not be used as the arbiter of decisions, and finally the differences in ideology or social 
systems can never be an excuse for interfering in one another's internal affairs.* These 
are no new principles. All who have followed the course of India’s conduct of international 
relations in difficult and varied circumstances will admit that these principles have provided 
the very foundations of our foreign policy. It is in the light of these principles that we 
have judged, and shall continue to judge, situations as they arise. 


ae AK OK ae मर 3 ak 3K ok 


I would like to compare the present situation to an avalanche because I know that 
hereafter the world will either get over this crisis honourably and peacefully and go forward 
with the process of detente and relaxation or we shall revert to the terrible confrontation 
which had rocked, and nearly wrecked, this world'after the end of the Second World War. 


I spoke earlier of the work we have done in the lessening of tensions. Now, we had a 
vested interest in this. Our country, as all developing countries, needs peace for its very 
development, its very existence. It was, therefore, with hope and confidence that we had 
watched the vast movement in many countries towards a better and more harmonious world 
order. It is our hope that the present crisis will not reverse the trend. In the present situation, 
the immediate need, as I had said yesterday, is for the withdrawal of the forces which have 
entered Czechoslovakia so that the Czechoslovak people may be free to determine their 
own future for themselves without any intervention and in an atmosphere which 1s free 
from tension. Whatever problems there may be between Czechoslovakia and its neighbours 
should be settled peacefully by means of negotiations and not through the use of force. _ 
The processes of peaceful co-existence which we have tried to promote for so many years 
must be allowed to develop unimpeded. 


We were asked here about whether we had conveyed our views to the: Czech. 
Ambassador. We have conveyed our views. The Ambassador is unfortunately, not here 
he is in Czechoslovalia. But we have conveyed our views very clearly to the Charge d’ 
Affairs who is here, to the Charge d’ Affairs of the USSR and to the Ambassadors of the 
other Warsaw Pact countries. We are in touch with the Ambassadors of other nations also. 


We are second to none in our sympathy for the brave and valiant Czech. people. We 
are second to none in our admiration for the dignity and calm with which they are facing 
the tragic situation, and we are specially aware that the method they have chosen is the 
method of satyagraha. 


Just before I spoke, an hon. Member** asked about clash of personalities in the USSR, 
clash of personalities in Czechoslovakia, something about workers versus intelligentsia in 


* Emphasis added by Editor. 
** Shri Swell. 


862 


Czechoslovakia. We are, as I said, earlier, in touch with the various embassies,though we 
are not directly in touch with our own Embassy in Czechoslovakia. But there is no 
authoritative news about the various rumours that are afloat, except that sometime ago, 
not within the last few days, a letter or a communication did appear in the Pravda 
newspaper signed by 90 workers of, I think the automobile industry-I am not quite sure 
which industry it was—in which they had said something about needing help to save 
socialism. 


मर oe a me ok ak aah ak 


Whatever it was. This is the only indication that we have of any such views. It is quite 
possible, however, and it is probable also, that there is some kind of difference of opinion 
within two groups; but whatever the difference of opinion, it is their business to solve it 
themselves. I have said this before and I reiterate it. 


a 1 a a 3c मं afc 24 और 


The situation 1s extremely grave. We want that we should be in a position where we 
can really play our role at the United Nations. We have made our views very clear, without 
changing words. We have talked about Russian armies going there.... (/nterruptions) 


me ae a aft ic ae me aie a 


When we say that the forces should withdraw. I think that our views are very clear.... 
(Interruptions) 


aK मै मं aie ie 2 aK और 


I should Jike to say only this. Many hon. Members have said that this is not a party 
matter; this is a matter with which the whole nation is concerned. With what are we 
concerned? We are concerned with the safety of the Czech. leaders. We are concerned with 
the Sovereignty and independence of Czechoslokia. We are concerned with the withdrawal 
of the forces.... (Interruptions). I have already said that we would support the Charter rights 
of Czechoslovakia in the United Nations. So, I should say: let us combine on this matter 
and not quarrel over the use of a word here or there. Let me conclude expressing once 
more our sympathy and admiration for the people of Czechoslovakia. 


ae ac ae ae He oe we ofc मर 
*Mr. Deputy Speaker, Sir, yesterday and day before yesterday, I explained what a very 


serious situation had arisen. (Interruptions) I hope the hon. Members will forgive me if I 
say that they are not exhibiting much seriousness here....( Interruptions). 


2 a a $C LL. 


* Statement regarding the U.N. Security Council Resolution relating to Czechoslovakia, LS. Deb., 23 August, 1968, 
cc. 888-94. 


We have heard very moving speeches here. We have been reminded of our 
Imdependence movement. There may be some people here who are too young to remember 
the Independence movement. There are many others who are older but who did not take 
part in the Independence movement. I belong to neither category. I was there in the thick 
of the Independence movement. (/nterruptions). 


te भर अर eK भर ate ac ae 


I believe that some Members have tried to point out that I have not stood by what I 
had said in this House yesterday or the day before. I believe somebody has already read 
out this Resolution. But with your permission, I would like to read it out again. 


Recalling that the United Nations is based on the principle of the sovereign equality 
of all its Members— 


we fully support this— 


Considering that the action taken by the Government of the USSR and certain other 
members of the Warsaw Pact in invading the Czechoslovak Socialist Republic is a 
violation of the United Nations Charter, and in “particular, of the principle that all 
Members shall refrain in their international relations from the threat or use of force 
against the territonal integrity or political independence of any State— 


We have asked our Permanent Representative to support this and he has also fully 
supported this. If I may interject and say so, I was the first person to mention these 
points publicly in my statement here before anybody else had done so (/nterruptions): 


‘gravely concerned that, as announced by the Presidium of the Central Committee of 
the Communist Party of Czechoslovakia the troops of the Soviet Union and certain 
other members of the Warsaw Pact had entered their country without the knowledge, 
and against the wishes of the Czechoslovakian Government. This clause also we have 
fully supported. 


Affirms that the people of the sovereign State of the Czechoslovak Socialist Republic 
have the right in accordance with the Charter freely to exercise their own self- 
determination and to arrange their own affairs without external interventions. 


That also we have supported. 


Affirms that the sovereignty, political independence and the territorial integrity of the 
Czechoslovak Socialist Republic must be fully respected. 


This also we have supported. 


Condemns armed intervention of the USSR and certain other armed Members of the 
Warsaw Pact in the internal affairs of the Czechoslovak Socialist Republic and calls 
upon them forthwith to withdraw their forces and to cease all other forms of intervention 
in Czechslovakia’s internal affairs. 


Now, with regard to this para, we did not wish to support it . 


me afc मे me oe मर मं: बंध औ 


As I have said in my statements yesterday we supported the para which “calls upon 
them forthwith to withdraw their forces and to cease all other forms of intervention in 
Czechoslovakia’s internal affairs”. We have supported. 


ae He ak ae ak भर ae th और 


We have earlier stated our position on some of these matters and our basic principles 
on the use of words such as ‘condemn’ or “condemnation’.* We do not believe that the 
use of such words necessarily goes to help the Czechoslovak people....(/nterruptions) 


me ae oe Me भर मर Me ah ak 


We received a phone message this morning informing us about this resolution and 
asking for our advice. We immediately consulted with our colleagues. 


मंद 3c aie ee कर aK He और 


We considered the matter in a Cabinet meeting, and we felt that while we should stand 
firm on the principles, as I said, the use of this word did not in anyway help the 
Czechoslovak people or serve any useful or constructive purpose, and therefore, 
(Interruptions )—we suggested that they might change this word into “deplore”. 


We HK और He aie a a He a 


Our representative, therefore, asked firstly that there should be a para—by—para voting 
which would have permitted us to vote for all the other issues except for this particular 
sentence. He also asked for the change of this particular word, from “condemn’”’ to 
“deplore”. Thirdly, he asked for time to consult us because, even though we had the phone 
call, we had barely a few minutes at our disposal as voting had already begun; and he, 
and I believe some other Members also, asked whether there could be a slight postponement 
so that they could consult their Governments. 


Mook a afc aK ae ae मं: oe 


I wonder if it is the hon. Member’s** contention that by by-passing the resolution we 
have changed anything that has happened in Czechoslovakia. 


We are mourning*** (/nterruptions). 


* Replying to Shri Hem Barua’s remarks, “condemns” is the essential part of the resolution; that has not been 
supported.” 
** Responding to Shri M.R. Masani’s remark, “While the Czechs were being butchered”. 
*** Replying to Shri Ranga’s remark, “We need not mourn at all when somebody is dead.” 


865 


The resolution goes on: 


Calls upon them likewise to refrain from any acts of bloodshed or other actions in 
Czechoslovakia and elsewhere that could exacerbate the situation, and to take no action 
of terror or reprisal that could result in further suffering or loss of life. 


Calls upon the President of the United Nations to exercise their diplomatic influence 
upon the USSR and the other countries concerned with a view to bringing about prompt 
implementation of this resolution. 


Requests the Secretary-General to transmit this resolution to the countries concerned 
to keep the situation under constant review and report to the Council. 


ee मे ae मं: मं 2 feo 


We have unfortunately not received the details.* We gave instructions that our support 
of all these paras should be made in very clear, firm and unequivocal terms. 


ae aK a a 2 3 we fe मं 


**Mr. Speaker, Sir, during the las: three days, in one form or another, in this House 
and the other House and indeed all over the country and in large parts of the world, people 
have followed the tragic events in Czechoslovakia with profound concern, anxiety and 
anguish. The House has followed the reports which have come through the world press 
and radio and during the last 24 hours there have been reports of violence, of bloodshed, 
of loss of precious lives, and there have also been rumours about the Czech. leaders. All 
these reports have naturally heightened our concern. 


I believe several Members here asked about Mr. Dubcek. There is no authoritative news. 
Even the Czech Charge d'affaires who has been in contact with his country at least till 
this morning—after that I have not been in touch and have no fresh news. But we have 
been very closely in touch with our embassies abroad and ambassadors of other countries 
in Delhi and, in particular, we have tried to establish contact with our ambassador in 
Czechoslovakia as well as with the Charged’ d’affaires of Czechosloakia in Delhi. There 
is not much in the messages which we have received and which the hon. Members have 
not already heard about through radio or the press. 


There was some misunderstanding about the rules which govern the conduct of business 
in the Security Council. May I ask your leave to explain the position briefly, and quote 
the relevant rules. In this-case, as I have explained, we have supported practically the entire 
resolution, all but one sub-part of one single paragraph; part of one single paragraph out 
of nine paragraphs in all. We wanted to record our vote on the resolution accordingly. 


* Replying to Shri Hem Barua’s question, “What was the resolution?” 
** Replying to the debate on a Motion regarding the U.N. Security Council Resolution relating to Czechoslovakia, 
LS. Deb., 23 August, 1968. cc. 988-95. 


The rules of the Security Council, however, lay down—may I quote from the relevant 
rules—it is rule 32: 


Part of a motion or of a draft resolution shall be voted on separately at the request 
of any representative, unless the original mover objects. 


Our representative, therefore, approached the movers of the resolution and tried to 
persuade him to agree to voting by parts. Unfortunately, they did not agree. 


It was is these circumstances that our representative had no alternative but to clarify 
our support to all parts of the Resolution with the exception of that one single word and 
thereafter he abstained on the Resolution taking it as a whole. An extract from the PTI 
despatch says:— 


In a speech early this morning Mr. Parthasarathy quoted that in the light of the 
statements of the Prime Minister of India it will be clear to the Security Council that 
India firmly supports respect for sovereignty, independence and territorial integrity of 
Czechoslovakia. It would be equally clear that we are against any interference in the 
internal affairs of Czechoslovakia. The immediate need is for the withdrawal of foreign 
forces from Czechoslovakia. I should like-this is what Parthasarathy said—to place on 
record our deep sympathy with the heroic people of Czechoslovakia in their present 
ordeal. 


The word which has been coming up for much comment and the word to which we 
also took exception was the word ‘condemn’. Now, Sir, to condemn or not to condemn 15 
not the question (/nterruption). What is more important and indeed vital, for Czechoslovakia 
is the withdrawal of all forces forthwith, the restoration of the legitimate Government to 
power and the restoration of sovereignty to the people of Czechoslovakia. We are in favour 
of all these objectives and we do not think that these objectives can be furthered by 
beginning with condemnation. 

मैप मं me 2 अर we मं! a 


I submit, Sir, that the main objective which we have to pursue as a mature and 
responsible people and as a member of the Security Council is to do everything possible 
to stop the process of serious setback to the forces of peace in Europe and generally in the 
world, to try and reverse the trends which have struck such a sharp blow to the earlier 
welcome process of peaceful co-existence and detente between the power blocs. This is 
what can serve the long-term and lasting interests of Europe and the world. That will also 
ensure the sovereignty and independence of Czechoslovakia. This 1s the only way in which 
an atmosphere can be created which is necessary for the full observance of the U.N. Charter 
(Interruptions). 

kk tok aie ah 


As I was saying, this is the only way in which an atmosphere can be created which is 
sO necessary to ensure the full observance of the United Nations Charter and the observance 
of the charter rights of all free nations. 


We have to face clearly what the reality is and what are the objectives. The reality 1s 
that even those countries which voted for that one part of the resolution in respect of which 


.we suggested a minor modification, even those countries are not, as far as we can see, 
prepared to take any concrete step to help the Czechoslovak people, beyond what we are 
doing, namely, calling for the withdrawal of troops, for safeguarding the charter rights of 
the Czechoslovaks and so on. 


I have already outlined the points this morning and also in my statement yesterday. 
Whatever their reasons or motives may be, we do not wish to question them. But we are 
averse, on our part, to do anything which might look like an empty gesture and which 
might invite comment that it 18 an exercise in propaganda and, above all, which might 
add to the tension which has arisen and also might possibly add to the difficulties of the 
Czech. people. 


Sir, much has been said here about the Government not daring to say something or to 
use a word; not daring to use a word which is strong enough. Some Members even called 
us stooges of one side or another. These are not new words. We have heard such remarks 
on occasion from one side of the House saying that we are the stooges of American 
imperialism; then we hear them from another side and we learn that we are, on the contrary, 
stooges of the Communists of one kind or another. This is, perhaps, the fate of all those 
who try to plod a middle path. 


From the beginning, our policy has been to try to lessen tension, not merely as a good 
ideal—we do believe it is an ideal—but from the point of view of national interest. It is not 
in our interest that tension should develop and increase; it is not in our interest that violence 
should break; it is not in our interest that there should be war. As many leaders have said, 
as Acharyaji has pointed out, the high ideals that Mahatmaji has put before us, the ideal 
that freedom was indivisible, that we should fight for freedom, for justice, not only for 
ourselves but for all oppressed and threatened people, this we have been trying to do. 


We talk of courage. Now, when the whole House 1s shouting, perhaps the easier path 
would have been for me to say that I accept this word. It is not easier to say, in the face of 
large numbers of people shouting, that I shall stand by a particular statement. But why do 
we Stand by that particular statement? Why, in the face of similar excitement have we 
maintained our stand? 

He he ah ek ok मर मं ae 


Our stand has been made so clear, Shri Ranga.* It has been made very clear also, at 
the present moment, in the United Nations. It has been made clear to the representative of 
Czechoslovakia in New Delhi. It has been made clear through our Ambassador in 
Czechoslovakia to the people there. There is no doubt about our stand amongst all those 
people who are vitally concerned. I am sorry that in this House people should try to create 
confusion about it. What is our objective? Are we out to use this for propaganda purposes, 
saying this 15 wrong? 

aK ae अर a i भर मंद मंद मर 


Well, I am glad it is a matter of conscience.** When this matter first came up, I said 
and I repeat that it is this Government and this side which has been friendly with the 


* Replying to Shri Ranga’s question, “What is your stand?” 
** Responding to Shri Ranga’s observation: ‘‘No question of propaganda; it is a matter of conscience.” 


Government and the people of Czechoslovakia. It was not the parties who were now raising 
their voice, who had contacts with these parties....(/nterruptions). I am not saying that they 
should not now express their sympathy. I welcome it; I think, it is a good thing that they 
are doing it now. But it is well to remember that they had taken a particular attitude about 
these countries; they had at some time resented our contacts with them, our economic 
contacts and so on, and not so very long ago. 


me मं मं oe aie मे He ai af 


It is well to remember that in a previous debate in this House these countries were 
criticized; it was said that they are not our friends, that we should not have such close 
contacts with them. I do not want to say anything except that it is well to remember what 
was Said in recent debates at this moment when we seem to be measuring friendship. 


So I would like to submit to this House that we have very strongly and firmly put what 
is the real crux of the matter. From the beginning we have supported Czechoslovakia. We 
did not wait for anybody else to pin point the issues. We were the first and we stick by 
those principles with regard to Czechoslovakia, with regard to any other nation where they 
may be threatened. 1 think that there should be no doubt about that at all. 


It would perhaps be presumptuous on my part to say that India has been able to change 
world trends or lessen tension all over the world. But I think it would also be unfair if we 
were to disregard totally the role which India has played in the lessening of tensions 
between the two power blocs and in creating a better atmosphere. This is something in 
which we are vitally interested and which we must continue to pursue. If I said that we 
must tread carefully or must choose our words carefully, it is not because we are afraid of 
anybody, it is not because we do not want to offend anybody or want to please somebody 
but it is because we feel this is a moment when we should not look only to the present. Of 
course, if in so doing we had not stressed the positive aspects, hon. Members would have 
been justified in saying that we were hesitating, but we have not hesitated in emphasizing 
and reiterating again and again the positive aspects of the matter. But we do feel that 
conditions should be created—I do not know if it is possible; it may not help at all but at 
least in our judgement it was felt that we should take a part which would help to lessen 
tension in this unhappy part of the world. 


I spoke earlier about the safety of Mr. Dubcek and his colleagues and, I am sure, the 
House will join me in expressing our great concern. We learn from the latest news that 
the President has already gone to Moscow. It seems from his statement that he has gone 
of his own will and he has stated....(/nterruption). 


MEE HK oh ae ae oe a 
Mr. Svoboda has asked his people to have faith in him and has told them that he will 


return tonight to report to them. He has also assured them that they will accept no Prime 
Minister except Prime Minister Cernik. 


me ae ae me a के 


I should also like to express my deep admiration and full sympathy for the Czechoslovak 
“people in their time of trouble, and admiration for the peaceful and passive character of 
their demonstrations and the calm and dignity which they are displaying. 


कं ah a कं कं ie a oe 


May I add a word? Let us not use this opportunity for condemnation amongst ourselves 
but use it for expressing Czechoslovakia’s point of view and for the principles which I 
have enunciated earlier. Let us create an atmosphere and let us work towards a world in 
which violence and force cannot triumph. 


india and Latin America* 


Mr. Speaker, Sir, the House is aware of the bonds of friendship between the peoples 
of Latin America and India. Soon after our independence we established diplomatic relations 
with some countries of this region to further strengthen our relations. The political and 
economic realities of the contemporary world make it essential for us to constantly renew 
and establish our international links. During these years, leaders and some Heads of 
Government from that continent have visited us in India. Many Governments had extended 
invitations to us but, so far, it had not been possible for any Head of the Government of 
India to visit South America.... (/nterruption). 


I had received several invitations myself and in response to them visited Brazil, 
Uruguay, Argentina, Chile, Colombia, Venezuela, Trinidad and Tobago and Guyana.... 
(Interruption). 1 was accorded the privilege of addressing the General Assembly of the 
United Nations during my brief stop-over in New York....(/nterruption). 


It was heartening to see what enormous goodwill and friendship there is for India in 
these countries. I found that we knew less about South America than the people of South 
America know of us... (/nterruption). The names of Gandhiji, Tagore and Nehru are widely 
known and quoted. In every country the reception which was accorded to me, as the 
representative of India, by the Governments and the people, provided unmistakable proof 
that these distant lands entertain sincere feelings of warmth and friendship for us. It was a 
moving experience to discover that India is held in such high esteem, and indeed, affection. 
Everywhere there is deep interest in our present endeavours and understanding of our efforts 
to promote international peace and co-operation....(/nterruption). 


During the visit, I took the opportunity to have an exchange of views on a broad range 
of national and international political and economic problems. These countries belong to 
a single continent but each has a distinctive personality of its own. All of them face 
problems which in some ways are similar to our own . They are determined to preserve 
their national identities and to overcome the challenge of social change and economic 
development in a rapidly changing world. Confronted as they are with that problems of 
growth and the need to increase trade as a step towards development and self- 
reliance.....(/nterruption), they also attach great importance to the implementation of the 
resolutions of the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development. 


* Statement on her visit to South America, L.S. Deb., 12 November, 1968, cc. 184-88. 


871 


Be 
54 


इक तम-्टटकट aineeins naa KARSINS ESTAS FP ETTER = 
BES 2 hone: eres Serco Cee ee 220::42077:722000 20:72: 5 2020:20%20 7771: 72% 720 2:7%:00:: 00% 22:22 4८००४ ०1०2 म 72475: 20000 720८-०० A NE CARAT ५ 1०००० 
fy के (5 Pee ats Ae ea nee s . oon feeaat eens teh aS Slate ahora Pecan eee Cat 2 SPAN . ‘ } ate 
Comat ५५2022222722 Rte eee TN PSION 6221: SESE Bae Sn ener eben cone te oe meet ie ee eee ine Arctripent teeter etre, re ea ea RN yen Rea aaa ee 

. y ee ve, te Ce te ma oP at 20 A Lay S . pe ne - u wae Ne bane 
Qa ea es NR 20/00/0022: Mar ee RN eerie NNER OR Hae AN 2 77: NER ee DAC tn 0 EMR TY 
aia Anas a Sa ०१ aa hot SAPS N i ST a ४४ अर Danae ००५० अप 400 ENON IO Mae eae 12240 न Disease 47:10 बी भ:4 SE 
वि॥ 20 a aA NDS ln oo 40525 ES 2005 SERS 3174 a a 20 ats Sine DRA Oat A Nt eas SOU Stat Sane ae 


In my conversations with the leaders in these countries, it was agreed that we could 

help each other by increasing our contacts in different fields and at various levels and by 

‘sharing our experiences. Every effort will be made to facilitate the exchange of scientific 
and technological information between our countries. 


raat eae 


मैर a ak ak मर मर ea मर 


As hon. Members are aware India and Brazil are to cooperate in the field of utilisation 
of nuclear energy for peaceful purposes. The officials who accompanied me had useful 
discussions with their counterparts in these countries in regard to trade and other forms of 
mutually beneficial economic cooperation, among other matters... (Jnterruption) a Trade 
Delegation will proceed to South America in the near future to follow-up on the es 
visit...(/nterruption). The House is aware of the steps which have been initiated to further ss 
promote and strengthen cultural exchange in various fields, through visits of scholars, 
writers and other creative artists and their works....(/nterruption). 


During my visit, I announced the opening of a Resident Mission in Venezuela. We hope 
that similar widening of our representations in the continent will be possible in future. 


ak के जप मर मर a ah मर ६ रे 


The representatives of India and the Latin American countries at the United Nations is ‘ 
have worked together closely on a large number of issues which have come up before the 2 


world body or its agencies. We intend to enlarge and deepen these contacts in the spirit of & 
the United Nations Charter and of international cooperation. - 


The visit to Trinidad & Tobago and to Guyana had particular interest, more so because 
a large segment of the population of these countries is of Indian origin. It was gratifying 
to find that they have identified themselves with their new homelands and are contributing ee : 


to the progress and development of the countries of their domicile. In these countries, as 
indeed in the countries of Latin America, we were happy to find harmony between the : . 
people of different racial and cultural origins. In response to requests from these 
Governments, we have offered to provide technical knowhow and other kinds of economic 
cooperation to help them in their development plans. 


Mr. Speaker, Sir, 1 is to our advantage and in our national interest to forge the closest 
relations with the large number of proud and resurgent nations of South America and the 22 
Carribean. We hope that with the follow-up action which we have in mind, our objective 
of developing close and fruitful relationship with them will be realised. 


I should like to take this opportunity to express our gratitude for the welcome and 
hospitality which was accorded to me and the Members of my party. 


872 


india-Burma Relations* 


Mr. Speaker, Sir, the House is aware that at the invitation of His Excellency General 
Ne Win, Chairman of the Revolutionary Council and the Government of Burma, I paid an 
official visit to Burma from March 27 to March 30, 1969. 


The relationship between India and Burma is closer than merely that of neighbours. 
Through the ages it has been sustained by the abiding values which have been cherished 
and shared by our two peoples. This long tradition of friendship was reinforced during 
our common struggle for freedom. 


My visit was brief but I was glad to have the opportunity of exchanging views with 
the Chairman and his colleagues on a wide range of subjects of mutual interest to our 
countries. I venture to think that these exchanges and the visit strengthened the relations 
between our two countries and helped in promoting understanding and cooperation between 
our two Governments and peoples. 


Chairman Ne Win and I had occasion to review the world scene in the light of political 
and economic issues of importance to the world today and more especially to us in the 
developing countries. As the House is aware, Burma and India stand for the promotion of 
international peace and understanding, based on respect for the sovereignty and 
independence of al] countries. Our two countries attach the highest importance to the 
principle of non-interference in one another’s internal affairs. In our discussions we agreed 
that the principal task of economic reconstruction which confronts our respective countries 
could be expedited by economic cooperation among the developing countries and more 
specially between neighbouring countries. 


During my talks with Chairman Ne Win as also in the discussions which our officials 
had with Burmese officials, we naturally discussed matters of bilateral interest. These 
included problems concerning Indian citizens in Burma and those of Indian origin awaiting 
registration as Burmese citizens. Chairman Ne Win and his Government have agreed to 
look into their problems sympathetically and expeditiously. We also discussed measures 
to promote greater economic cooperation between our two countries. I hope that in the 
light of these discussions, closer bonds of economic cooperation will be established between 
Burma and India. 


I took the opportunity to thank Chairman Ne Win and his Government for their vigilance 
along the Indo-Burmese border which, as the House is aware, has helped us to take more 


* Making a Statement regarding her visit to Burma. L.S. Deb., 3 April, 1969, oc. 233-34. 


873 


effective measures against some of the misguided elements on our eastern border. I hope 
that the House has noted the observations made by Chairman Ne Win at the banquet he 
was good enough to hold in my honour, that the Government would not countenance the 
use of Burmese territory by nationals or organisations of another State as a base for hostile 
activity against their home State or against a third State. Chairman Ne Win went on to say 
that it was in conformity with this basic stand that Burma had taken necessary measures 
against those nationals. of India who sought to use Burmese territory for hostile activities 
against India. 


I also thanked the Chairman for the cooperation and understanding which has been 
shown by Burma in the demarcation of our border, the first phase of which has been 
completed ahead of schedule. 


Chairman and Madame Ne Win are always welcome in our country. I extended an 
invitation to them to visit India any time at their convenience, which they have accepted. 


As is customary, a joint communique was issued by the two Governments at the end 
of my visit. 


874 


india and the Cambodian Crisis“ 


...We have made our views clear to the Americans, not today, but from the very 
beginning even when I visited the United States before I was a member of the Government; 
even then I expressed my understanding of the Government’s point of view. We have not 
hesitated to make our views very clear to the U.S. Government, or anybody else who has 
asked our views on this matter, or sometimes even if they have not asked. There is no 
doubt that the present intervention,** as I stated in another forum, has aggravated the 
situation. We must not view the problem of Cambodia as related only to Cambodia. It is a 
part of the struggle in Vietnam and by this intervention.... 


ae भर ak He 2k 2k और he के 


..The war has extended in area and in depth and this holds dangers to the whole of 
Asia. There is no doubt about it. The question is whether we should use very strong words 
in expressing our point of view. We have so far not expressed such words and as I have 
said earlier, if we do not use strong words, this does not mean that we do not feel strongly. 
On all former occasions also we have tried not to use very strong words. 


2 ak ae te मर ae ae af 


We have given our views. Our views are clear to the whole world. The house is excited 
about something which someone in America has said. I do not know why we should get 
excited about what somebody has said. What does it matter what they say about us? Does 
it change our policy. 


fe afc ae ac a मै: aK Hk ak 


If the hon. Members will try to listen, they will know what I am talking about. They 
are getting mixed up. I have not said that the Americans should bomb. On the contrary, I 
have expressed myself fairly strongly on the matter of bombing of North Vietnam and so 
on. I am now not talking about bombing or even fighting. I am talking about somebody 
saying something about India. As far as I am concerned, it does not matter to me at all 
what anybody says about India. We stick to our policy. 


a a aK ai afc मर ae he ae 


* Replying to a Calling Attention regarding the reported remarks by the American Vice-President, Mr. Spiro Agnew, 
that India as the Chairman of the International Control Commission in Cambodia was not taking any steps because 
of Soviet Opposition, R.S. Deb., 11 May, 1970, cc. 113-36. 
** U.S. armed intervention in Cambodia. 


875 


Words have come. *We have used words about the danger of the extending conflict. = 
-We have used words about the suffering of the people, about the courageous manner in nee 


which they have faced it. (Interruption). What is concrete? Only action can be concrete. os 


Words cannot be concrete. one 
ae ak मै weak a * Be 


The situation is an extremely delicate one. There are no Chinese there**, andona [ie 
previous occasion I have stated in this House that all this talk of containing China and ४0 ew 
on is meaningless, because apart from the fact that the Chinese are not there, none of this Fags 
action has in any way affected China, weakened it, contained it, or achieved any of the [Re 
other things which were at first given out.as the reasons for this war. What 1195 done is Ea 
to put a tremendous burden on the people of Indo-China, specially on the people of North ae 
Vietnam. And it has caused tremendous suffering to the people. As we had prophesied [Fe 
earlier, the war is now gradually spreading to other nations. This is a great danger to allof [ae 
South East Asia and to all of Asia, and there is no doubt that the Americans do share the हिल 
responsibility very heavily.... 


ae ae oh a HK 


Whatever the intervention of the Americans, it is there. But there is also a local group 
or party, whatever you may like to call it and, whatever its weakness, it is there and we 
cannot ignore them. 


This war has been tragic from the beginning and it is because of the hesitation of the 
Americans in removing their troops for reasons which I do not know—perhaps prestige or 
perhaps the thought that a solution could be found on the battlefield, that the war has 
continued and expanded, and has become so serious. We have spoken up against it all the 
time. We have said that it if continues in this manner, then it will extend to other countries. 
This is what has come to pass. 


A question was asked about the International Control Commission. In this particular — 
situation, it is indeed difficult for the Commission to function. As the hon. Members know, 
the I.C.C. consists, apart from India, of two countries who have generally stood on opposite 
sides. Therefore, the Commission has been rendered largely ineffective. We all know that. 
We can try to find some way out to see whether it can function. I doubt if it can, in this 
particular situation. As the hon. Members know, we have always believed that if there was 
the will to keep this.matter on the negotiating table—and this would necessarily mean 
stopping the war, stopping the bombing, withdrawal of forces, and so on-then there would 
be some chance of negotiations leading to peace. But unfortunately that did not happen. 
We are in a situation which 1s delicate and also dangerous. 


ek कं shook oh के wes 


Well, we have said that we would favour a Geneva-type Conference, because it would ne 
bring together all the people who are involved.*** The other Conference tends to be rasher Cee 


* Responding to Dr. K. Mathew Kurian's observation that strong feelings should be expressed in strong words. aes 
** Responding to Shri Awadshwar Prasad Sinha’s remark, “Chinese are doing it in Cambodia, not only Americans”. e 
*** Replying to Shri Akbar Ali Khan who asked, ‘What about a Geneva Conference?” 


876 


one-sided Conference and instead of finding a solution, it may well aggravate the situation. 
That is why, much as we respect the Foreign Minister of Indonesia, we felt that it would 
not be possible for us to associate ourselves with the Indonesian Conference. 


One hon. Member has asked: Why don’t you call all these people? It is not enough to 
call all these people. There must be willingness in them, a wish, to sit together on this 
issue. 


It is asked: Why are we not emotional? It is all right for Members of all sides of the 
House to express emotion and anger. But when a Government is trying to see whether 
something can be done, whether we can possibly lessen the tension, then it is better to try 
to keep this emotion at a low level. This does not mean that we are giving in to any lobby. 
We have not done so. We naturally want people to understand our point of view and 
appreciate it. But basically we have to come to our own conclusions after studying any 
given situation, wherever it 1s in the world. Our decisions is not dependent on others. 
Whether it is the United States or it is the USSR, we have to judge what we think is the 
right thing to do or to say, and we have to stick to it. 


Much as we respect the statesmen of other countries, what they say about us is not 
really important; we should certainly protest; we should certainly take all diplon.atic steps 
which such a situation demands. It does not matter to me what they say; I do not think it 
is any insult. They have got their stand and they see things from their one-sided point of 
view. And therefore, I certainly do not feel insulted. I can only say that the people who 
have made such remarks are entirely misinformed and they do not themselves realise the 
gravity or reality of the situation they have entered into, or how or in what way they are 
aggravating that situation. 


af 24 2 मै मंद मै af the 2k 


It is true that large sections of the American people, especially students and members 
of the faculties and the intelligentsia, are demonstrating and protesting vehemently against 
the actions of their Government and of their army. We have full sympathy with the students 
who have suffered and with the families of those who have lost their lives. The hon. 
Member* wanted me to call the Americans “hangmen’”’. That word could only be used if 
they succeed in their attempt. I do not think they are going to succeed. Therefore, that 
word has no meaning. 


ate ak ak a ak मर ae 2 a 


May I answer both hon. Members** simultaneously? Firstly, I should like to emphasise 
that we are not at all trying to cover up anything. We have always stood for a meeting. | 
realise that at this point the situation is complicated and delicate and that it may not be 
possible to have a meeting. But there is no reason why we should not try for a meeting. 
We say there should be a meeting. But we do not know if it can be held. I think the hon. 


* Shri K.P. Subramania Menon. 
** S/Shri Mahavir Tyagi and K.P. Subramania Menon. 


877 


-~Member has demanded that we should call for the withdrawal of forces. We have been 
saying just this all along. We are not now saying that forces should remain there. We do 
think that they should be withdrawn. We have said this all along, ever since the American 
forces went to Vietnam. We regard the Cambodian question as an extension of the Vietnam 
war. It is not a separate, or new question. Therefore, our position on this has been clear. I 
am willing to repeat it if necessary. We have reiterated our view. 


The hon. Member opposite has spoken on not taking a partisan view. It is true that 
being the Chairman of the International Control Commission, it places us in a delicate 
situation. But because of that, we cannot be prevented from expressing our view on what 
we consider the justice of the case. Therefore, we have taken a broad view on the struggle 
in Vietnam. We have not been sittmg on the fence as some Members here have been trying 
to imply. I should like to assure the hon. Member, Shri Tyagi, that no amount of shooting 
has ever moved me form my stand. While I sympathise fully with the excitement of hon. 
Members, because the sufferings and the difficulties of the people of Vietnam and Cambodia 
are great and real, shouting is not going to move me from my stand, and my stand ts the 
stand which the Government of India has been taking consistently, firmly, ever since the 
conflict in South-East Asia began. We have always stood for the withdrawal of outside 
forces. 


HK I मे aie के मं aH ah के 


I do not know what the Member means because unfortunately, most of the world is in 
the position of a spectator.* Either you join the conflict, or even if you have a conference, 
you are still a spectator; you are not dealing with the conflict as such; you are just 
discussing it. We thought that perhaps if the issue could be discussed in a wider forum, 
there was some likelihood not very great, I admit, but some likelihood—of lessening tension. 
But at this moment, when the conflict has been escalated in this manner, I admit that it is 
difficult to see any way out immediately. 


aK ak और He aie ae ae ae a 


I have said earlier that there is no question of hesitating on any question. The hon. 
Member** knows that there 1s another member of the Commission besides Poland. Now 
when a particular situation arises, one member may not want to do something but when 
another situation arises the other Member may not want to do something. It is not a question 
of any member pressurising, but unless you get both members to agree... 


a He के ae a कु KM oe 


The question is to get them to agree fo some action, and this has been the difficulty—in 
getting them to agree. 


* Replying to Shri N.G. Goray’s observations, “In spite of the fact that we are the Chairman of the International 
Control Commission, we are not in a position to call the Commission into activity... Does it mean that so long as 
this conflict continues, India will be reduced to the position of a spectator?” 


** Shri Shyamnandan Mishra. 


878 की 


wy ० 
tes ane ५ 


It would be very wrong to say that any act of ours was forced by anybody or that it 
was the cause of a large-scale intervention by the US. The other question the Member 
asked was about our trading with North Vietnam. I myself have answered this question on 
the floor of this House. The answer was that the Government of India took that decision 
at the time of the Chinese invasion. It had nothing to do with other countries. We have 
further said that if the necessity arose, we would be willing to reconsider the question but 
it has nothing to do with other countries. 


Developments in East Bengal 


Mr. Speaker, Sir, first of all if, I may say so, you have the House, some news we have 
received...** 


ak ah ae मर कै ak 2k aie ae 


The point is that this news has come through Radio Pakistan and, therefore, I cannot 
say whether it is true or not. We should not automatically take it as true because it could 
be just propaganda. 


Sir, strength does not lie in words. If my colleague Sardar Sahib has not spoken with 
passion, it is not due to lack of feeling either on his part or on the part of the Government 
but because of the fact that we are deeply conscious of the historic importance of this 
movement and the seriousness of the situation. 


Something new had happened in East Bengal—a democratic election where an entire 
people had spoken with almost one voice. We had welcomed this, not because we wanted 
to interfere in another country’s affairs, but because those were the values as one of my 
hon. friends*** pointed out, for which we have always stood and for which we have always 
spoken out. And we had hoped that this action would lead to a new situation in our 
neighbouring country which would help us to get closer, which would help us to serve 
our own people better and create an entirely new situation in this sub-continent. As our 
statement has said, this did not happen and a wonderful opportunity for even strengthening 
of Pakistan has been lost and has been lost in a manner which is tragic, which is agonising 
and about which we cannot find strong enough words to speak. This again 1s a new situation 
but in a different way. It is not merely the suppression of a movement, but it 1s meeting an 
unarmed people with tanks. We are in close touch as close touch, with the events as 1s 
possible in such a situation. 


I am sure hon. Members will understand that it 1s not possible for the Government to 
say very much more on this occasion. I would like to assure the hon. Members who asked 
whether decisions would be taken on time, that obviously is the most important thing to 
do. There is no point in taking a decision when the time for it is over. We are fully alive to 


* Participating in the general discussion after a Statement made by the Minister of External Affairs on ‘recent 
developments in East Bengal’, L.S. Deb., 27 March, 1971, cc. 42-43. 


** Before this, the Speaker mentioned in the House that the PTI news quoting Radio Pakistan said that the East 
Bengal Leader Mujibur Rahman had been arrested. 


*** Dr. Hari Prasad Sharma. 


the situation and we shall keep constantly in touch with what is happening and what we 
need to do. I agree with him also that we must not take merely a theoretical view. At the 
same time we have to follow proper international norms. Various other suggestions have 
been made about genocide and so on about which we are fully conscious and which we 
have also discussed with the leaders of the Opposition. At this moment I can only say that 
we do fully share the agony, the emotions of the House and their deep concern over these 
developments. We have always believed that freedom is indivisible. We have always raised 
our voice for those who have suffered, but in a serious situation like this the less we as a 
Government say I think the better it is at this moment. I can assure the House that we 
shall keep in close touch with the situation and also we shall keep in close touch with the 
leaders of the Opposition so that they can continue to give us their suggestions and we 
can also give them whatever knowledge we are able to. 


881 


Solidarity with the People of East Bengal* 


Sir, the tragedy which has overtaken our valiant neighbours in East Bengal so soon 
after their rejoicing over their electoral victory has united us all in grief for their destruction 
. of their beautiful land and anxiety for their future. I wish to move a Resolution which has 
been discussed with the Leaders of the Opposition and, I am glad to say, approved 
unanimously. 


I beg to move the following Resolution : 


“This House expresses its deep anguish and grave concern at the recent developments 
in East Bengal. A massive attack by armed forces, despatched from West Pakistan has been 
unleashed against the entire people of East Bengal with a view to suppressing their urges 
and aspirations. 


Instead of respecting the will of the people so unmistakably expressed through the 
election in Pakistan in December 1970, the Government of Pakistan has chosen to flout 
the mandate of the people. 


The Government of Pakistan has not only refused to transfer power to legally elected 
representatives but has arbitrarily prevented the National Assembly from assuming its 
rightfull and sovereign role. The people of East Bengal are being sought to suppress by , 
the naked use of force, by bayonets, machine guns, tanks, artillery and aircraft. 


The Government and people of India have always desired and worked for peaceful, 
normal and fraternal relations with Pakistan. However, situated as India is and bound as 
the peoples of the subcontinent are by centuries old ties of history, culture and tradition, 
this House cannot remain indifferent to the macabre tragedy being enacted so close to our 
border. Throughout the length and breadth of our land, our people have condemned, in 
unmistakable terms, the atrocities now being perpetrated on an unprecedented scale upon 
an unarmed and innocent people. 


This House express its profound sympathy for and solidarity with the people of East 
Bengal in their struggle for a democratic way of life. 


Bearing in mind the permanent interest which India has in peace, and committed as 
we are to uphold and defend human rights, this House demands immediate cessation of 
the use of force and of the massacre of defenceless people. 


* While moving a Resolution on the developments in Bangladesh, L.S. Deb., 31 March, 1971, cc. 114-16. 


chat er ET > की क 


This House calls upon all peoples and Governments of the world to take urgent and 
constructive steps to prevail upon the Government of Pakistan to put an end immediately 
to the systematic decimation of people which amounts to genocide. 


This House records its profound conviction that the historic upsurge of the 75 million 
people of East Bengal will triumph. The House wishes to assure them that their struggle 
and sacrifices will receive the whole-hearted sympathy and support of the people of India’’.* 


* (i) The Resolution was adopted unanimously without any discussion. 


(ii) An identical Resolution was moved by the Prime Minister, Smt. Indira Gandhi, in Rajya Sabha also. 
(R.S. Deb., 31 March, 1971, cc. 123-24.) 


Situation in Bangladesh* 


Mr. Deputy Speaker, Sir, in the seven weeks since Parliament recessed, the attention 
of the entire country has been focussed on the continuing tragedy in Bangladesh. Hon. 
Members will recall the atmosphere of hope in which we met in March. We all felt that 
our country was poised for rapid economic advance and a more determined attack on the 
age-old poverty of our people. Even as we were settling down to these new tasks, we have 
been engulfed by a new and gigantic problem, not of our making. 


On the 15th and 16th May, I visited Assam, Tripura and West Bengal, to share the 
suffering of the refugees from Bangladesh, to convey to them the sympathy and support 
of this House and the people of India and to see for myself the arrangements which are 
being made for their care. I am sorry it was not possible to visit other camps this time. 
Every available building, including schools and training institutions, has been requisitioned. 
Thousands of tents have been pitched and temporary shelters are being constructed as 
quickly as possible in the 335 camps which have been established so far. In spite of our 
best efforts, we have not been able to provide shelter to all those who have come across, 
and many are still in the open. The district authorities are under severe strain. Before they 
can cope with those who are already here, 60,000 more are coming across every day. 


So massive a migration, in so short a time, is unprecedented in recorded history. About 


three and a half million people have come into India from Bangladesh during the last eight ~ 


weeks. They belong to every religious persuasion—Hindu, Muslim, Buddhist and Chnistian. 
They come from every social class and age group. They are not refugees in the sense we 
have understood this word since Partition. They are victims of war who have sought refuge 
from the military terror across our frontier. 


Many refugees are wounded and need urgent medical attention. I saw some of them in 
the hospitals I visited in Tnpura and West Bengal. Medical facilities 17 all our border States 
have been stretched to breaking point. Equipment for 1,100 new hospital beds has been 
rushed to these States, including a 400 bed mobile hospital generously donated by the 
Government of Rajasthan. Special teams of surgeons, physicians, nurses and public health 
experts have been deputed to the major camps. Special water supply schemes are being 
executed on the highest priority, and preventive health measures are being undertaken on 
a large scale. 


* Statement regarding the situation m Bangladesh, L.S. Deb., 24 May, 1971, cc. 184-89. 


222 
aaa 
ce 


In our sensitive border States, which are facing the brunt, the attention of the local 
administration has been diverted from normal and development work to problems of camp 
administration, civil supplies and security. But our people have put the hardships of the 
refugees above their own, and have stood firm against the attempts of Pakistani agent- 
provocateurs to cause communal strife. I am sure this fine spirit will be maintained. 


On present estimates, the cost to the Central Exchequer on relief alone may exceed 
Rs. 180 crores for a period of six months. All this, as hon. Members will appreciate, has 
imposed an unexpected burden on us. 


I was heartened by the fortitude with which these people of Bangladesh have borne 
tribulation, and by the hope which they have for their future. It is mischieveous to suggest 
that India has had anything to do with what happened in Bangladesh. This is an insult to 
the aspirations and spontaneous sacrifices of the people of Bangladesh, and a calculated 
attempt by the rulers of Pakistan to make India a scapegoat for their own misdeeds. It is 
also a crude attempt to deceive the world community. The world press has seen through 
Pakistan’s deception. The majority of these so-called Indian infiltrators are women, children 
and the aged. 


This House has considered many national and international issues of vital importance 
to our country. But none of them has touched us so deeply as the events in Bangladesh. 
When faced with a situation of such gravity, it is specially important to weigh every word 
in acquainting this House, and our entire people with the issues involved and the 
responsibilities which now devolve on us all. 


These twenty-three years and more, we have never tried to interfere with the internal 
affairs of Pakistan, even though they have not exercised similar restraint. And even now 
we do not seek to interfere in any way. But what has actually happened? What was claimed 
to be an internal problem of Pakistan, has also become an internal problem for India. We 
are, therefore, entitled to ask Pakistan to desist immediately from all actions which it is 
taking in the name of domestic jurisdiction, and which vitally affect the peace and well- 
being of million of our own citizens. Pakistan cannot be allowed to seek a solution of its 
political or other problems at the expense of India and on Indian soil. 


Has Pakistan the right to compel at bayonet-point, not hundreds of thousands, but 
millions of its citizens to flee their home? For us it is an intolerable situation. The fact 
that we are compelled to give refuge and succour to these unfortunate millions cannot be 
used as an excuse to push more and more people across our border. 

We are proud of our tradition of tolerance. We have always felt contrite and ashamed 
of our moments of intolerance. Our nation, our people are dedicated to peace and are not 
given to talking in terms of war or threat of war. But I should like to caution our people 
that we may be called upon to bear still heavier burdens. 


The problems which confront us are not confined to Assam, Meghalaya, Tripura and 
West Bengal. They are national problems. Indeed, the basic problem is an international 
one. 


We have sought to awaken the conscience of the world through our representatives 
abroad and the representatives of foreign Governments in India. We have appealed to the 


. United Nations, and, at long last, the true dimensions of the problem seem to be making 
themselves felt in some of the sensitive chanceries of the world. However, I must share 
with the House, our disappointment at the unconscionably long time which the world is 
taking to react to this stark tragedy.... | 

Not only India, but every country has to consider its interests. I think I am expressing 
the sentiments of this august House and of our people when I raise my voice against the 
wanton destruction of peace, good neighbourliness and elementary principles of humanity 
by the insensate action of the military rulers of Pakistan. They are threatening the peace 
and stability of the vast segment of humanity represented by India. ees 


We welcome Secretary General, U Thant’s public appeal. We are glad that a number 
of States have either responded or are in the process of doing so. But time is the essence 
of the matter. Also the question of giving relief to these millions of people is only part of 
the problem. Relief cannot be perpetual or permanent. And we do not wish it to be so. : 
Condition must be created to stop any further influx of refugees and to ensure their early : 
return under credible guarantees for their future safety and well-being. I say with all sense : 
of responsibility that unless this happens, there can be no lasting stability or peace on this 
sub-continent. We have pleaded with other Powers to recognise this. If the world does not 
take heed, we shall be constrained to take all measures as may be necessary to ensure our 
own security and the preservation and development of the structure of our social and 
economic life. 


We are convinced that there can be no military solution to the problem of East Bengal. 
A political solution must be brought about by those who have the power to do so. World 
opinion is a great force. It can influence even the most powerful. The Great powers have 
a special responsibility. If they exercise their power rightly and expeditiously then only 
we can look forward to durable peace on our sub-continent. But if they fail—and I sincerely 
hope that they will not—then this suppression of human rights, the uprooting of people, | 
and the continued homelessness of vast numbers of human beings will threaten peace. 


This situation cannot be tackled in a partisan spirit or in terms of party politics. The 
issue involved concern every citizen. I hope that this Parliament, our country and our people 
will be ready to accept the necessary hardships so that we can discharge our responsibilities 
to our own people as well as to the millions, who have fled from a reign of terror to take 
temporary refuge here. 

All this imposes on us heavy obligations and the need for stern national discipline.We 
shall have to make many sacrifices. Our factories and farms must produce more. Our 
railways and our entire transport and communication system must work uninterruptedly. 
This is no time for any interplay of regional or sectional interests. Everything must be 
subordinated to sustain our economic, social and political fabric and to reinforce national 
solidarity. I appeal to every citizen, every man, woman and child to be imbued with the 
spirit of service and sacrifice of which, I know, this nation is capable.* 


* An identical Statement was made by the Prime Minister Smt. Indira Gandhi in Rajya Sabha also. os 
(R.S. Deb., 24 May, 1971, cc. 220-23.) a 


Independence Movement in Bangladesh* 


Mr. Speaker, Sir, may I express my deep appreciation of the sentiments voiced on all 
sides of the House in regard to the struggle of Bangladesh? I fully realise that even though 
some hon. Members have used harsh words, they have done so out of deep emotion and 
feelings of concern. They have reflected the anguish which we and the entire country feels 
at the tragic and heart rending happenings in Bangladesh. My Government and I share 
that anguish with deep concern. 


It is only natural that with our own tradition of love of freedom, our involvement with 
the values of democracy and human rights, we should feel deeply concerned when these 
values are crushed. 


We have heard much talk of democracy. The Allies claimed that the Second World 
War was fought to save democracy. But when democracy is so flagrantly and so brutally 
being destroyed, we do not hear much comment, nor do we see the sort of spontaneous 
strong responses which the situation warrants. Could there be a greater or a clearer 
expression of democracy than the one we witnessed in the elections in Pakistan? Let me 
remind the House that although the elections were held under the rules formulated by the 
military regime, immediately afterwards military repression was used mercilessly to halt 
the process leading to the formation of a democratically elected Government in Pakistan. 


We are told by some countries that while they may disapprove of what is being done 
by the military rulers, they cannot be a party to the disintegration of Pakistan. Is it suggested 
that we wish the disintegration of Pakistan ? Have we not, as many Members have pointed 
out, at every step tried not only for propriety in our relationship but also for friendship ? 


If there is a struggle between the two parts of Pakistan, it is certainly not of our making 
but of the rulers of Pakistan. Is it anybody’s contention that the methods being used today 
can achieve any integration or stability, worth the name, now or in the future? 


The question of secession is also raised, if I may say so. This is a distortion of facts. It 
is conveniently forgotten that the majority of Pakistan’s people live in the eastern region. 
In a democratic system, the majority does have certain rights. They cannot be accused of 
secession if they assert those rights. However, if today there 15 such strong feeling amongst 
our people, it is not merely because the democratic rights and liberties of 75 million people 


* Replying to the discussion on influx of refugees from East Bengal to India, LS. Deb., 26 May, 1971, cc. 219-26. 


SNe ge ah 8 Sn allel wile कि 8 सा ech! Bee mea 


are being crushed but because of the damaging effect which this cruel tragedy is having 
op our entire country, economically, politically and socially. 


This is the reality of the situation. It is not propaganda or the figment of anyone’s 
imagination. Our experience of the influx of refugees and the preposterous propaganda 
by Pakistan has reinforced the fact that what is happening in Bangladesh does have many 
sided repercussions on our internal affairs. That is why I have said that this cannot be 
considered merely as an internal problem of Pakistan. It is an Indian problem. More, it is 
a world-wide problem. The international community must appreciate the very critical 
character of the situation that has now developed. 


Any failure to do so may well lead to disastrous consequences. For what is happening 
in Bangladesh is not just a political or an economic problem. It is a problem of the very 
survival of the people of that whole area, the peoples of Bangladesh. 


It is a problem created by calculated genocide that is resulting not only in the murder 
of tens of thousands of men, women and children but also forcing many more to seek refuge 
and shelter in India. It 1s a problem that threatens the peace and security of India and, 
indeed, of South-East Asia. The world must intervene to see that peace and security is re- 
established and maintained. 


As hon. Members know, yesterday, there was a similar debate in the other House. | 
had to sit there also for a part of the time and, so, I could not listen to all the speeches 
which were made here. I was sorry, however, to hear some hon. Members take even this 
Opportunity to cast aspersions on our Foreign Office. I must deplore this tendency to try 
and find an easy way out by blaming the services. I do not say that we have not made 
mistakes or that all our representatives are always upto the mark. When there is a mistake, 
we should certainly find fault. But constant criticism is disheartening and demoralising. 
We should not blunt the instruments with which we have to function. Our work here and 
abroad has to continue. We do realise that any help given to the rulers of Pakistan will be 
used against the innocent people of Bangladesh. 


On this occasion, our representatives abroad have worked hard and have done excellent 
work. They have been as effective as they could possibly be ॥ the prevailing circumstances. 
Some Governments have set views, and even if their sympathies are roused, they are not 
often willing to take a stand on a matter such as this. I would like to say that all our services 
engaged in dealing with the present situation have shown fortitude and a sense of dedication. 


If it gives some solace to hon. Members to abuse the Government and blame them for 
lack of courage, for lack of direction and even of understanding, I certainly do not want 
to deprive them of this comfort. To some Members, guts are equated with voice-power 
and the use of passionate words. I wish life were so simple. 


Now, this Government may have many faults; but it does not lack courage nor 18 it 
afraid of taking a risk if it is a necessary risk. As I have said many times over, we are not 
merely concerned with the legal aspect of this situation or, indeed of any situation. We are 
concerned with one thing and one thing and only—our own national interest and security, 


Pah eo 


Ree) 
mee, 


0528 


and naturally that of the heroic people of Bangladesh, that is why it is important to act 
calmly. The situation is far too grave for anything else. 


The word ‘recognition’ has echoed from every side as if recognition by itself could 
solve the many difficulties which confront the people of Bangladesh or the many difficulties 
which our country faces, especially our States on the border, that is, West Bengal, Assam, 
Tripura and Meghalaya. We have given deep and anxious thought to all aspects of this 
question. It is, as my colleague has said, constantly under view. We are not writing to see 
that what other countries will do in the matter. Whatever decision we take in this, or other 
issues is guided by our own independent assessment of the situation and how our interests 
in the broadest sense are served. 


Yesterday I spoke deliberately in very measured words of our present difficulties and 
of the likely dangers and burdens, not because I am or ever have been afraid of burdens 
or of danger but because I want hon. Members to think deeply about all these matters. 


Danger can be faced only when one is prepared for it. This, —as I said previously and I 
should like to repeat,—is no time for party rivalry. We must stand together; we must help 
one another in the economic and other tasks which confront us. Communal tendencies must 
be curbed. All parties, I think, must help to ensure that the question of Bangladesh and of 
the refugees is not reduced to a communal level but is kept on its true level, which is a 
national and an interntional one. 


I shall continue to keep in touch with the Leaders of the Opposition and with other 
Members of this hon. House on these questions and developments. I hope that Members 
will feel free to come to see me to express their view or whatever knowledge they have 
on the subject. In the meantime-there is not much else that I can say. 


I would only say, let us not lose heart. Let us have faith in ourselves and in our people. 
Let us have faith in the courageous people of Bangladesh and in their determination to 
fight for their nghts. No great task is achieved without sacrifice. There is an old saying 


“Is experience gained with a song? 
No, it takes all that a man has.” 


Sacrifice and hardship there must be, for all who fight for freedom or for justice or for 
a great cause. But I have no doubt that the spirit of man and the spirit of freedom cannot 
be vanquished. We must face this entire problem with confidence, and as I said, do what 
we have to do with calm and deep thought and with unity amongst ourselves. 


ae 2k ok ae ak ak a a ak 


*It is true that there was an intrusion in part of Assam, and the Chief Minister has 
phoned to me. But we sent immediate help, and the intruders were driven out. The situation 
is under control. They were driven out by five o’clock the day before yesterday. 


af ak मर मर ae a मंजर मर 


* Responding to the clarification sought by Shri Indrajit Gupta about the Pakistani intrusion into Assamese and 
Meghalyan territory. 


. Any case of spying* is always treated with the utmost seriousness, whether in Assam = 
or anywhere else in the country. eee 


ae के ak मं के के ak ak pee 

So far as I know, always all such entrants are being registered except some who manage a 
to avoid registration.** Although my colleague, the Minister for Rehabilitation, is doing ahs 
all he can to provide tents, tarpaulins etc., there is no doubt that we are not fully equipped 
to deal with such a large influx. So, there is. bound to be discomfort and hardship which 
we are trying to minimise to the extent possible. 


* Replying to the question of Shri Dinesh Chandra Goswami : “Is Government contemplating serious steps so that 
spying is not done in that most sensitive and strategic area of Assam?” 
** Responding to the query of Smt. Bibha Ghosh about the registration of refugees from Bangladesh. 


Relief to Refugees from Bangladesh* 


I am glad that my colleague, Shri Khadilkar, has been able to satisfy the hon. Shri 
Arjun Arora. 


Sir, [had not expected to intervene in this discussion because we have made our policy 
very clear. I was rather astonished to hear from one of the Members that our policy is not 
clear. I think our policy is quite clear. I am astonished at the lack of confidence in our 
people of our country, which our Members are constantly displaying. Are we citizens of a 
great country? Are we citizens who have confidence in ourselves or not? Listening to this 
debate, it seems to me that this is a far more important question than the question of what 
is happening to the refugees from Bangladesh. Because if we have no confidence in 
ourselves, it doesn’t matter what we say, we will not be able to implement it. 


I speak here with a temendous confidence in my people and in my Government. I 
have no doubt at all that we can face the problem which has come upon us. What does 
this mean ? Does it mean that no refugee will suffer? It cannot possibly mean that. When 
any country has to face a large influx—not an influx over a long period, but a sudden influx 
within a few weeks, of nearly six million people-it is not a joke; it is not a small thing. I 
would like to know from hon. Members : do they know any country in the world which 
has faced even one-tenth of this situation before ? It 1s very easy to sit in this House and 
just criticize and critisize instead of trying to assess the realities of the situation. If even 
ten thousand refugees arrive in any European country, the whole Continent of Europe will 
be afire, all the newspapers, the Governments and everybody will be aroused. We are trying 
to deal with nearly 6 million human beings who have fled from a region of terror, who 
have come wounded, with disease, with illness, hunger and exhaustion. And they have 
come to our country, which is one of the poorest in the world. We certainly have the fullest 
sympathy with these war evacuees or refugees, or whatever you would like to call them. 


We are going to do our very best to look after them. Even if we have to sacrifice, even 
if we have to go hungry, I hope the hon. Members will be the first to initiate a movement 
of missing a meal. But at the same time we have to see that our own poor people do not 
suffer, do not die. We have a double responsibility: a responsibility to our people and a 
responsibility to our friends from across the border. 


One hon. Member spoke of our taking a begging bow! to other countries. Sir, | am not 
in the habit of begging. I have never begged. I am not begging now. And I have no intention 


* While replying to the Short Duration Discussion on the situation arising out of the influx of millions of refugees 
from Bangladesh into India, RS. Deb., 15 June, 1971, cc. 242-48. 


. of begging. If our emissaries go from this country to other countries, they are not speaking 
with a voice of weakness; they are not begging. We are sending them because this is an 
international responsibility. And we are not going to 16 the international community get 
away with it. They cannot avoid their responsibility. They may give help, or they may not 
give help. But they will certainly suffer from the consequences of whatever happens in 
this part of the world. We must put this problem to them 1n its proper perspective. We 
certainly want help, and the more help we get, the better we shall be able to look after the 
refugees. But so far this help has been pitiable in proportion to what is needed, it is about 
one-tenth of what is actually needed so far as we have been able to assess. I hope that this 
help will increase. This is very important from the point of view of saving lives, of giving 
better nourishment to children and of giving better treatment to those who are suffering 
from cholera and other diseases. But the point is not the quantity of help. Our appeal is 
even more important from the point of view of putting this problem in perspective. What 
are we concerned about ? We are concerned about the lives and the comforts of the refugees, 
but we are even more concerned about the problem of democracy, the problem of Human 
Rights, the problem of human dignity, which have now been brought into focus before us 
and the whole world in such a poignant and heartrending manner. And if our representatives 
have gone, whether they are members of the Council of Ministers, whether they are non- 
official people or other people, it is with this end in view, namely that all the countries 
should be told about the reality of the situation, I think that our efforts have succeeded in 
this in some measure. Today the world press is reacting more sharply and is devoting greater 
space to this question. I think that we have had some thing to do with this change of attitude. 
So, we should not sneeze at all the efforts that are being made. As I said on a previous 
occasion I can understand the emotionalism and the sense of sorrow and of helplessness 
which hon. Members and many people outside feel. It is understandable and I sympathise 
with it. But it should lead us to something more. It should not lead us to a dead end, to a 


feeling that nothing is being done, that nothing can be done and that we are going to be . 


engulfed. We are bearing a tremendous burden and as I said—I do not know whether the 
word is parliamentary or not; if it is not please strike it out, Sir—-as I said in my meetings 
with the people even in the camps where J had gone, we will have to go through hell to 
meet this situation. But I have no doubt that we can emerge, and we will. It will hurt us in 
many ways, economically and in other ways, but we will get through if we have the 
courage, the determination and the endurance. I personally believe that our people do have 
these qualities and therefore we will be able to handle this situation. But it cannot be done 
on cheaply either as regards the financial effort or the physical effort. The effect may hurt 
all sections of the people, all along the line. It may even effect some of our essential 
programmes. But this is something which we cannot avoid because, as I have said on an 
earlier occasion, what happens in Bangladesh will have an impact on India. We are 
concerned with the general principle of democracy but we are more concerned here because 
Bangladesh is so close to our border that its impact will be very much greater than if such 
a thing had happened in a distant place. 


My colleague just now mentioned about the much publicised reception centres opened 
by the West Pakistan Government in Bandladesh. I do not know what these reception 
centres are going to do. So far nobody has returned from any of our refugee camps except 


892 हर 


a small number—about two thousand—who are reported to have gone back from a part of 
northern India for various reasons which had nothing to do with the opening of the reception 
centres in East Bengal. 


So far as I remember, it was Shni Goray, or may be one of the other hon. Members— 
who asked something about what we meant by political settlement. I think he will excuse 
me; he has put rather an extraordinary interpretation on that word. Does he for a moment 
believe that we would accept a political settlement which means the death of Bangladesh, 
which means the ending of democracy or of those who are fighting for their nghts ? India 
could never accept such a state of affairs. When we talked of political settlement, we meant 
that a political setthement must be arrived at with those people who are today being 
suppressed. I am not expressing a view whether such a settlement is possible or not, but 
clarifying what we have said at an earlier stage. If international pressure through whatever 
means available to the big powers and to other countries were exerted, I think that a political 
settlement would have been possible at an earlier stage. Now, of course, with each passing 
day this possibility becomes more remote. 


We are looking after the refugees on a temporary basis. We have no intention of 
allowing them to settle here nor can we allow them to go back merely to be butchered. 


ate 2k मर ae 2 a aie कं मं 


One hon. Member” said something about China having become free after us. I have 
not quite understood what this means. So far as I know, China has not been under foreign 
rule in the way that we have been. It has always been a free country. It is true that earlier 
it did not have a communist government, and now it has one. But it was a free country all 
along. 


There is some confusion in the minds of hon. Members whether refugees are being 
removed or whether they are to be kept where they are. It is not easy to be clear on this 
matter because of the magnitude of the problem. Even if we want to remove the refugees, 
it is physically not possible to do so. Each train carries about 1,200; or it may be a little 
more. But with the best will in the world we can only move a small portion of them. We 
are trying to move them specially to land which belongs to the Central Government in 
different States but it 1s not an easy matter to do and however we may try to move them 
there still will be a tremendous burden on the States where they are today. And specially 
as you must have heard from Shri Khadilkar.... 


ae afc ak मै मर मं ae ate मर 


We have used trucks; we are using planes; we are using railway trains; we are using 
goods trains. But with all that-they are six million people—you cannot remove them easily 
or quickly.** 


* Shri B.N. Mandal. 
** Responding to Shri Kalyan Roy’s suggestion, “You are depending only on railways. Fleets of trucks may be used 
to shift them to other places.” 


893 


_ In this country we have a shortage of practically everything which they need. We have 
a shortage of tarpaulins; we have a shortage of corrugated iron sheets; we have a shortage 
of every possible thing you can think of. We have tried to round up these items from every 
part of the country; we are rushing them to the camps. But no matter what we do-I am 
sorry to say—we cannot keep the refugees on anything remotely resembling comfort because 
of the nature of the problem. And I am glad to say that wherever I have been the spirit in 
these camps has really been magnificent. They are living under extremely difficult 
conditions but they understand and appreciate our difficulties. So, we should continue to 
try and do our best but we should always keep in view the long term aspect of the problem 
and specially the aspect that it will mean tremendous hardship for all of us and for our 
people. We must all, as leaders or members of political parties, as citizens of this country 

_prepare our people for this period of hardship because without it we can neither help the 
refugees nor deal with the larger problem. This House has always shown a great deal of 
understanding. J know that it is necessary from time to time to have an opportunity to 
blow off steam and to work off emotions. This is natural and understandable but when all 
is said, I am grateful to the House for the understanding it has showed and for the co- 
operation which it gives. Thank you. 


Trial of Sheikh Mujibur Rahman* 


Mr. Speaker, Sir, I can fully appreciate the deep concern, anxiety and, indeed, agony 
of the mind of the hon. Members with regard to the news which has been coming across 
from West Pakistan. 


I can only say that the Government shares this agony and anxiety. I do not agree with 
the last sentence of the hon. Member** that the freedom movement in Bangladesh will 
die. Because we all know that martyrdom gives immortality. We all know, that far from 
weakening a movement, it strengthens it. Everywhere in the world, freedom struggles have 
gone from strength to strength, the more the authority has tried to suppress them. 


Sir, we have tried to get some news. This is from the United Press International—the 
hon. Members can take it or leave it. 


“But the Pakistani officials to-day refused to say whether the trial of the Awami League 
leader Sheikh Muyibur Rahman started on schedule yesterday.” 


There has been no other news. No mention on any of the Pakistan Radio broadcasts. 


Just now we have been discussing the natural calamities of drought and floods which 
cause hardship and suffering to our people year after year. But, here there is a calamity of 
great magnitude, not caused by nature but by man and one which is quite unnecessary. As 
I have said on previous occasions, we are concerned not only because of the ideals of 
freedom and human dignity and human suffering but also because this tragedy has a direct 
effect and impact on our own country. 


I can understand the desire of the Members for greater effort on our part. Many 
Members have sent telegrams to various organizations and Parliaments abroad. The 
Government of India also has approached the Secretary-General of the U.N., U Thant. I 
myself have written on more than one occasion to the Heads of States and Prime Ministers 
to try their best to save the life of Sheikh Mujibur Rahman. I know that there is a feeling 
in Parliament that Parliament itself should move a resolution. I have no objection to such 
a resolution, but I feel that 1t would not serve much purpose except to reiterate our own 
strong feelings. We know that the sort of military regime which exists in Pakistan is not 
going to pay any heed to our resolution or even to the opinion of other peoples of the 


* Statement regarding the reported trial of Sheikh Mujibur Rahman by the Military Regime of Pakistan, LS. Deb., 
12 August, 1971, cc. 368-72. 
** Sbri S.M. Banerjee. 


895 


ra | 


Nr 


world. Perhaps it could be pressurised by certain Governments and we are doing our best 
that such pressure should be exercised. 


We have also to take into account the fact that anything we do could harm the cause. 
We know that there is an effort on the part of the military regime to propagate the view 
that Sheikh Mujibur Rahman’s actions are activated by India and that India is encouraging 
him. All kinds of other allegations which have no foundation whatsoever are being made... 


A कु eR me a ae 


They are lies, but we should not do anything which could encourage this propaganda 


and might go against him.* 3 

One more point I should like to make to the hon. Members. Sometimes in our speeches, | 

we tend to talk about West Pakistan. At all times we should make a distinction between oe 

the people of West Pakistan with whom we have no quarrel whatsoever. .(/nterruptions) eee 

and the military regime which is responsible for the atrocities in Bangladesh and which is : 5 

suppressing the legitimate political nghts of the people even in the different provinces of cs 

West Pakistan. Now we come to the end of the session. As we do So, we reiterate our 2228 

strong feelings about Sheikh Muyibur Rahman and all that is happening to the long-suffering 2 

people of the Bangladesh. They are a gifted people who have perhaps given more : था 

revolutionaries in this sub-continent than any other part of the region. To-day they are 

undergoing great hardship. | 

As I said earlier, Sheikh Mujib is not just an individual. We should be concerned about —s 

the liberty and the rights even of an individual and a revolutionary. But, to-day, he has ee 

become the embodiment... (/nterruptions) of the aspirations and urges of the people of ss 

Bangladesh and of the suffering and spirit of sacrifice which they are enduring with such i 

courage and fortitude. 

This is a good note on which to end the session. It is very sad note but such are the ः 

circumstances of the situation.... 8 

ats a मर Hk मै रा 

Several have written to us that they are taking up this matter or that they have taken a 

up the matter.** S. 

मं 1 मे dO ae के : 2 

Sea 

The hon. Member must have seen the statement issued by U Thant.*** It appeared in 
the morning papers. I don’t know whether it is the full statement or not. But, that it will ; 

give the hon. Member some idea of the difficulties of the situation. We are aware of the ae 

weaknesses of the U.N. which have been obvious in other situations also. ae 

a hk rE a eae g 

* Responding to Shri S.M. Banerjee’s Remark, “It is all lies.” oe 

** Replying to Shri Shyamnandan Mishra’s question, ‘What are the reactions of other countries to your approach to oe 

the trial of Sheikh Mujibur Rehman ?” ee 

*** Replying to Shri Shyamnandan Mishra who asked, “U Thant has no initiative in this matter so far ?” i : 


Another question is what will help Sheikh Mujibur Rahman at this particular moment. 
I am glad that the House has shown such unity and solidarity in this matter, because, this 
is a source of strength to us in this situation. We are interested not merely because of our 
opinion about Sheikh Mujibur Rahman, but, because we think that the action proposed by 
the military regime of West Pakistan will have an impact, not only on Bangladesh and on 
our country, but we feel, that will have a much wider impact all over the world. Nor will 
it help even those countries who think they are helping the military Government of West 
Pakistan. Even that end will not be served. 


ae 2 2k मैर मंद मे ae भर ok 


*Sir, this is one of the occasions when the entire House has one feeling and one voice. 
I share the agony which hon. Members have expressed and 1 appreciate the attitude of 
solidarity which some hon. Members of the Opposition have expressed. We are in a very 
difficult situation. Several suggestions have been made all of which are suggestions to which 
we have no objection at all. If we have a Resolution or I ask U Thant to go to Islamabad, 
I see no objection in it but the only question that comes to my mind is will it be effective, 
what will be the result ? As some hon. Members have said here, with a military regime 
which has been acting in the way that we have all seen and heard about, 10 will only 
disregard our Resolution or any feelings we may express with impunity. Whether U Thant 
will be willing to go after the sort of statement which he had issued is another question 
which comes to mind. 


ak a ak 2k मंद मंद a 24 मर 


I have no objection to asking him** to go; the only question in my mind is whether it 
will have any effect, whether in fact he will go as a result of my letter. We have also to 
contend with the fact that whatever we do further irritates the military regime in West 
Pakistan so that whether we are the best people to be in the forefront of any of this 
movement is also a question to be considered. This is why, if sometimes we have not spoken 
as loudly or as strongly as hon. Members have wished, it is not because we do not feel 
about this matter acutely but because of the thought as to what would be the effect. Would 
it create the opposite effect—in the minds or increase certain-I do not want to use the word 
stubborn—that kind of thing; if these people are saying this that is all the more reason why 
we Shall go ahead with that. It can create that kind of reaction. These are some of the 
questions which we must all consider before we decide what we do. We have not left a 
single stone unturned 1n trying to bring to the notice of the World Governments what is 
happening, the results it can have in this entire area, specially our assessment of the future 
of that region and that we do think that what has happened in Bangladesh cannot be 
reversed. Something is happening and we all know from history that the sort of action 
that the Government of West Pakistan is contemplating will not have the sort of results 
which they hope it will have; it will have the opposite result. As hon. Members have 


* While replying to a Calling Attention Notice regarding the trial of Sheikh Mujibur Rahman by the military authorities 
of Pakistan R.S. Deb., 12 August, 1971, cc. 166-69. 
** Shri U. Thant. 


897 


mentioned here martyrdom does not end something; it begins something. It makes the man 

immortal and it is always bound to strengthen his cause. These are some of the questions 

which arise and which we must keep in mind. If hon. Members of the Opposition like, we 

can sit together and further talk about this matter. As I said, I personally, or the Government 

has no objection to any of the suggestions that have been made here and I would like to 
share with them the anxiety which arises in my mind. 


Now, hon. Members have rightly pointed out that Sheikh Mujibur Rahman today is 
not just an individual. Whatever his good qualities or otherwise-I do not know him 
personally—he has become a symbol of the aspirations, the urges and the hopes of the 
people of Bangladesh. He is the embodiment of the suffering and the spirit of sacrifice of 
a very long suffering people, a people who are extraordinarily gifted, sensitive and who 
have generally been of a more revolutionary mould than many others. So while we must 
continue all our efforts, if we can think of anything that will have actual effect then we 
should certainly do it. Nobody can be satisfied with what is happening. 


Now, many Members asked about the replies that we got from the various Governments 
of the world. Most Governments do not want to say exactly what they are doing. They 
only give an indication that they have taken up this matter or they want to pursue this 
matter. For them also it is a question not merely of writing to President Yahya Khan or 
expressing their views, but of trying to find a way which will be effective. We believe 
that a large number of Governments have taken up this matter, but how effective it is we 
just do not know. It does not seem to be very effective however much be the pressure. 
Some Governments are in a position to exert pressure, but whether, 1n the present 
circumstances of Pakistan the military regime will want to yield to that pressure, whether 
they can expect them to yield to that pressure, these are also questions which perhaps they 
will take into account and make up their mind again. 


I would like to make only one point to hon. Members—not strictly concerned with 
Sheikh Mujibur Rahman or this matter—which is that at all tmes we should differentiate 
between the people of Pakistan—Bangladesh, of course, people even who live in the 
different provinces of West Pakistan—with whom we have no quarrel whatsoever and the 
military regime which is committing the atrocities in Bangladesh and which is also 
responsible for the suppression of all political nghts of the people of West Pakistan. I do 
not think I can say very much now. We are aware that the United Nations has not done 
what it could have. We are aware of its many weaknesses not only on this occasion, but 
on many other occasions and in other situations, and at that time we have always said that 
it is only a weakness. Yet we supported it as a body because it is a forum and perhaps 
there is no other such forum. These are questions of long-term assessment on which views 
have to be taken. Hon. friend, Shr Gurupadaswamy, nightly mentioned Joan of Arc, 
where after a summary trial of this sort, after her being burnt at the stake, finally she 
was practically declared a Saint and then definitely a national heroine. I do not think 
ultimatums or threats would serve any purpose. If they would serve any purpose we 
certainly would not hesitate to deliver an ultimatum or to threaten anybody; we will do 
this, that and the other, but it 18 for the House to decide whether an ultimatum will achieve 
any result, whether we could do it to the USA or we could do it to the United Nations or 


898 


3 
a 
me) 
ee, 
5 
poner nnd 
E my 
777 :5%2...२ 
‘5 Aaa) 
es 
SOO 
. sy) 
=o 
and 
i 
55८2 
as) 
ons 
22027 
nd हब 
eens 
८८ 
(५३५०/८/22८४४| 
20:22 aa) 
2:272:2 
५२277220 
ie ard 
27777777777 
iceman 
ees 
‘% 
, 
eke vee Aa) 


we could do it to the Commonwealth. However strongly, however acutely, however 
agonisingly we feel over this question, we have to see that it is not one certainly of using 
any language and it is not a question of having a constitutional or legal feeling on this 
question. The only point is what will be effective in trying to save the life of a person 
whom we feel is today much more than just an individual, even much more, as has been 
' said, than a revolutionary or a fighter for freedom. He has come to symbolise something 
and the great tragedy of the situation is that it is not merely a tragedy 07 Bangladesh, which 
is indeed very grave-the sufferings of the people—but the real tragedy, I think, is the apathy 
which we see of the other nations to what is happening there. So, I would like to support 
those Members who have said that on this grave issue we should remain united and have 
a feeling of solidarity and certainly we should sit together and see 1f anything more can 
be done. 


899 


ae era 
वीर अ दी 


India Symbolises the Urge for Peace, 
Freedom and Justice* 


Mr. Deputy Chairman; Sir, I have just returned from a tour of Belgium, Austria, the 
United Kingdom, the United States of America, France and the Federal Republic of 
Germany. 


The decision to pay official visits to these countries was taken much earlier in response 
to repeated invitations and in consonance with the practice of reciprocity. The House will 
remember that President Nixon and Prime Minister Heath had visited our county in 1970. 
Chancellor Kiesinger in 1969 and President Pompidou when he was Prime Minister. But 
owing to our general elections, my visit had to be postponed. 


In spite of the grave situation in Bangladesh and along our borders in the West Pakistan, 
I undertook this visit as an earnest of our desire to leave nothing unexplored which might 
lead to an easing of the burdens imposed upon us and to discourage those who are bent 
upon finding excuses to threaten our security. It is the complete self-assurance of our people 
and the unity of all our parties which gave me the confidence to undertake the visit at a 
time of national danger. 


My visit enabled me to exchange ideas with the Heads of Governments and leaders of 
public opinion at a point of time when important changes were taking place in the world 
and to put across to them our point of view on matters of world interest, bilateral relations, 
and more especially on the situation in East Bengal and the threat it is posing to our social, 
political and economic structure and to peace in this region. Our discussions helped to 
remove certain misgivings and to focus attention on the root cause of the problem, that is 
the refusal of the Pakistan military regime to respect the verdict of their own people, the 
reign of terror let loose by them in Bangladesh and the consequent influx of refugees into 
India. I think that these countries as well as others realise that it will not help to deal with 
peripheral problems without finding a political solution in Bangladesh through negotiations 
with the already elected leaders of the people of East Bengal and 1n accordance with their 
legitimate wishes. Most countries also realise that the release of Sheikh Mujibur Rahman 
is essential and intend to impress this upon military regime of Pakistan. 


After a long period of tragic indifference and sheltering behind the thinly disguised 
legalistic formulation that it was merely an internal affair of Pakistan, there is now a 
growing sense of urgency in seeking a solution. 


* Statement on Prime Minister’s visit abroad, R.S:Deb., 15 November, 1971, cc. 213-17. 


pee eae 


Pakistan’s efforts to side-track and cloud the basic issue by seeking to involve the United 
Nations and to transform the struggle of the people of Bangladesh into an Indo-Pakistan 
confrontation and conflict have been exposed. It is now well understood that India will 
not be misled by Pakistan’s moves and that the military junta in Pakistan must come to 
terms with the people whom they have treated with such injustices and cruelty. It is also 
widely appreciated that no country has any right to impose a solution on the people of 
East Bengal and that force could not suppress the spirit of freedom and nationalism with 
which they are inspired. 


During my visit to the United States, I was informed that a decision had been taken to 
stop further shipments of arms to Pakistan. A formal announcement has since been made. 
I was given to understand that no arms are being supplied from the U.K., France and the 
F.R.G. 


It is my earnest hope that joint or several efforts of the stastesmen whom I met will 
make the military regime in Pakistan realise that no good can come of sabre-rattling or 
by forcing a military conflict on India. I hope it is not too late for sane counsel to prevail 
for one cannot go on ignoring hard facts. The just and legitimate aspirations of the people 
of Bangladesh, indeed of West Pakistan also cannot be ignored and trampled upon. 


There was general sympathy for the manner in which we are bearing the heavy burden 
of looking after over nine million refugees. There have been indications of additions to 
the funds for giving relief to the refugees. All these countries agree that conditions must 
be created inside East Bengal to stop the further influx of refugees and to facilitate the 
return to their homeland in safety and human dignity of those in India. 


Having said this I must make it clear that we cannot depend on the inernational 
community, or even the countries which I visited, to solve our problems for us. We 
appreciate their sympathy and moral and political support, but the burnt of the burden has 
to be borne by us and by the people of Bangladesh who have our fullest sympathy and 
support. 


So far as the threat to our security is concerned, we must be prepared—and we are 
prepared-to the last man and woman, to safeguard our freedom and territorial intergrity. 
Obviously we cannot take risks such as the withdrawal of our forces from the border unless 
the situation in Bangladesh is resolved satisfactorily as it poses a serious threat to our 
security. 


Solutions have been found or initiated even to seemingly insoluble peoblmes—as for 
instance in Europe and between the United States and China—by a wise impulse in men of 
wisdom and vision. But these developments should not lull us into complacency or wishful 
thinking. 

In Europe there is a welcome spirit of detente, which we hope will soon lead to stable 
security in that continent. This should have a stabilising influence in Asia and other parts 
of the world. There was a realisation that political detente should be combined with 
outword-looking economic policies, especially in regard to the needs of the developing 
world. 


901 


Bilateral economic relations were also discussed with these countries. There was a 
sympathetic response. Belgium, France and the FRG have shown understanding that there 
should be a broad outlook in approaching the relations between India and European 
Economic Community. There are new possibilities of our collaboration in the industrial, 
technological and scientific fields. 


In brief, these are the impressions which I should like to share with hon. Members. I 
am deliberately not mentioning the leaders of individual countries by name because they 
were all full of sympathy and friendship for India. 


I think my visit also helped to restore our relations with Britian which had suffered a 
serious setback in 1965. 


I should also like to express, on behalf of the Government and the people of India, my 
sincere thanks to the Governments and peoples of the countries I visited for the warm and 
friendly reception I received everywhere. I should further like to record my appreciation 
of the world Press which, by and large, has given a fair and objective account of the events 
in Bangladesh, of the inexpressible horror let lose upon the people, of the heroic struggle 
which they are waging in defence of the most elementary democratic rights and liberties. 


May I take this opportunity of thanking my people and all the political parties who 
have shown wisdom and restraint and kept the nation united against any external threat. 


...L conclude this statement with a reminder that in the community of nations our 
country symbolises the urge for peace, freedom and justice. There was a time when ours 
was a lone voice in a world which was in grip of the cold war. Even in the midst of the 
grave crisis which the military rulers of Pakistan have created for us, our people, our 
country, and this great Parliament of the largest democracy in the world have maintained 
the spirit of peace and of self-restraint. We have refused to be excited by threat or 
provocation from across our borders. Let us then continue to conduct ourselves with quiet 
confidence in ourselves so that the world should see and know that India cannot be 
browbeaten or lulled into a false sense of security. Calmness of spirit and strength go 
together. India 15 calm and we are capable of taking decisions in defence of our security 
and stability.* 


mH के ee कर कं मं के 


**Mr. Deputy Chairman, Sir, I am not talking about my Statement even though that is 
the main matter under consideration, because most of the hon’ble Members who spoke, 
rightly spoke about the question which is uppermost in our minds and which was 
uppermost in my mind when I went abroad. Whatever I have to say about my tour, I have 
already stated in my Statement and 1 do not think any new questions have arisen on that 
account, Here in this House I see a basic unity of outlook on this issue and I think there is 


* An identical Statement was made by the Prime Minister, Smt. Indira Gandhi, in Lok Sabha also. 
(LS. Deb., 15 November, 1971, cc. 242-46.) 
** While replying to the discussion on her Statement in the Rajya Sabha on 15 November, 1971 regarding ber visit 
abroad, R.S. Deb., 30 November, 1971, cc. 230-336. 


general support also. I should like to thank the hon. Members for the manner in which 
they have spoken. I should specially like to thank my old friend, Shri Babubhai Chinai 
and Shri Pranab Kumar Mukherjee who spoke just now. with such understanding of the 
situation. Professor Ruthnaswamy was kind but of course he expressed the typical 
Swatantra point of view. Shri Mani also—of course I must not forget to mention him. 


11 मंधभर मं fk fk के 


° 
बा 


Dr. Bhai Mahavir not unexpectedly made some rather carping remarks, which were 
typical of him. I seem to irritate him and his Party as much as I irritate President Yahya 
Khan and who does not even—I am not talking of Dr. Mahavir but the other gentleman— 
like to take my name when he refers to me. Dr. Bhai Mahavir spoke about my projecting 
a personal image. Now, when one goes abroad, especially as Prime Minister one goes as a 
representative of the people—any honour that is done to an Indian is an honour to the country 
and usually another country can only honour a country through somebody, whether he is 
a scientist or even if he is an ordinary citizen. So, I do not think that if an honour 1s done 
to me or if I have been able to project an image, it is certainly not to a person isolated 
from a country, but as I have said on a previous occasion, it 18 an honour to the country 
and what they think the county stands for. So, from that point of view, any houour I received 
is aS important as paying tribute to the country direct. Another remark made by Bhai 
Mahavir was about our showing restraint at the wrong time. I think some hon. Members 
were not listening to him as quietly as they should have and he remarked that they were 
not being patient when they should be patient and the Government was patient when it 
should not be patient. I agree with him that hon. Members could occasionally show greater 
patience but I think the Government should always show restraint and patience especially 
a Government which is sure of itself and sure of its people. I do not think that our friends 
from across the border have gained much by their lack of patience and by the tone of their 
statements, their threats and provocations and I think we have gained a great deal by putting 
all these threats, all these abusive words, if I can put it that way, in their proper perspective; 
that is, they do not ruffle us, they do not divert us from what we are going to do, what we 
think is right for our country and they do not rouse our anger in that sense. Of course one 
is angry, not because of words used; one is angry at what is happening in Bangladesh; 
One is angry because it seems to us such an unnecessary tragedy. It has taken the lives of 
millions of people and have uprooted millions of people from their homes . It is not only 
those who have come to our refugee camps who are uprooted but from what one hears 
form foreign correspondents and those who have been to Dacca and other parts of 
Bangladesh the entire country is like a refugee camp; that is, vast masses of the population 
are moving from village to village, nobody knows who belongs to which village. When 
they are harassed in one area and when they see an empty village or part of an empty 
village they may settle down there or they may find that they cannot live there and they 
move on. So the conditions there are quite chaotic but I would only like to say that the 


Jan Sangh has its own manner of functioning. They are welcome to it. They have seen I 


think in the past whether it has brought them honour or success. We have a different way 
of functioning and we are going to stick to our way which I think is certainly more dignified 
and gets us better results also. 


cate oa eels 


Now there was one point. I think it was Prof. Ruthnaswamy who said something about 
the Indo-Soviet Treaty being a handicap in the Prime Minister's baggage. I do not know 
who is handicapped, it certainly did not handicap me. No foreign official or head of State 
or head of Government whom I met even mentioned the Treaty. The question was asked 
at press conferences. Nobody else was at all concerned. I think they understood the 
situation; people may use these phrases but I do not think anybody really thinks that-India 
has changed her policy or is going to change her policy. In fact my own guess is part of 
the reason why we irritate other people so much 18 just this that they find it irritating that 
here is a Government and people who are not willing to change at their request or at their 
hint or whatever it is . 


Mr. Chatterjee spoke of my concentrating on seeking financial aid for the refugees. 
This also I explained everywhere I have never asked for financial aid. It was again in reply 
to questions at Press Conferences that I have said that the help from the international 
community has been negligible which it has been and I can hardly not answer a simple 
question like that. I have never asked for help of this kind or another. Neither have I given 
any advice to foreign Governments. I have said, it is for you to decide what is in your 
national interests; we cannot expect you to do something which is not in your national 
interests but we think what is happening here on the sub-continent and its likely 
consequences will affect peace in Asia and therefore peace in the world. I think all the 
countries will be affected by it in the long run and it is better they realised the situation 
and faced up to it now rather than make changes in their policy later on, 


Something else Mr. Chatterjee said. I do not know whether I misunderstood him. Did 
he say that I had said either the Mukti Bahini or those who are fighting were seeking a 
solution within Pakistan ? 


मंच a he कु me ae कु 


I am harping on political solution because ultimately the solution when it comes will 
be a political one. It is not for me anyway. I think you* did say something about my giving 
advice to the Bangladesh people... | 


ek मे ae he के ee मं 


My point has been that it is only the people of Bangladesh who have the authority to 
say what they want; I mean they know what they want. I do not think I have the authority 
to say on their behalf that this is what should be the solution. So far as I am concerned I 
Can give my view, as I did, give my view that they would not now settle for anything less 
than liberation. I told them very clearly that if any talks are to be held, it should be with 
the people who have been elected by the public of Bangladesh. By that I did not mean 
these new people who have come in unopposed by any means. So, we have all along 
stressed the main and the basic issues involved and tried to draw people’s attention to it. 
Now, it has been Pakistan’s consistent effort to try to internationalise the issue and to try 
to turn it into an Indo-Pak dispute. This is what I had to face everywhere. Everywhere they 


* Shri AP. Chatterjee. 


8 oy ee eal 


said: If only you will agree to talk to General Yahya Khan, if only your foreign Minister 
can go or your representative can go, then things will be solved. It is in answer to them 
that I had to say that they will not be solved because this is not our country and it is only 
the people of that country who can solve their problems or who can state it. Naturally I 
had to say that Sheikh Mujibur Rahman is their undisputed leader and he is the person 
who is the most authorised to speak on their behalf, but I did add that in order to voice the 
opinion of the people of Bangladesh , he must be free. He must be able to know what is 
happening in Bangladesh. He cannot express an opinion if he has had no knowledge of 
what has happened and what 1s happening, as is to be the case. So, this attempt to bring 
the whole matter to the Security Council, I think, is part of the same game that is, to confuse 
the realities of the situation and those who are moving in this direction cannot but, be 
suspect in the eyes of the Indian people. 


Kashmir, of course, is as much a part of India as Gujarat or Maharashtra or any other 
part of the country and any attack there, as any attack anywhere else, will be repulsed and 
fought with all the strength at our command. The hon. Member* who spoke just before 
me, has given you, in brief, an account of what happened in the earlier periods, that in 
both the wars which we have had on the borders of Kashmir in 1947 and in 1965 we did 
not have adequate forces there, for good reasons. The people, the common people, the 
Gujjars, the nomadic tribes, the peasants or the other people stood so solidly with us. They 
brought the first news that the people were coming and doing propaganda against us. They 
gave all this news. They were the first in the line of resistance and we were able to stand 
up to those invasions which in the beginning were not obvious invasions. They were hidden 
because they were infiltrators. Today also aggression is committed on India. As I said in 
my speeches, there was a new kind of aggression. The Pakistani armies may not have 
massed on our soil, but it was an invasion, when we have such a large proportion of the 
population of another country coming on to our soil. It is a kind of invasion. Now, many 
of them are genuine refugees in diffculties. Nevertheless, the problem that their coming 
has created does threaten the security of our country and the stability of our country. 
Amongst them are people who are not genuine refugees. So, from all these points of view, 
they are threatening our security and, therefore, it is a kind of aggression. Now, we have 
remained restrained. But we have silenced some Pakistani guns, we have dealt with their 
tanks and we have brought down some of their intruding aircraft. But we have not poised 
a counter-threat in any sense of the word. But we cannot allow the annihilation of the people 
nextdoor to us. I mean, this is what has to be very clearly understood by the world and 
which I did speak to them. It is not like two equal armies fighting there, the Mukti Bahini 
and the West Pakistan troops. It is a fully equipped army fighting with the people, some 
of whom have been trained in the East Pakistani Rifles and the East Bangalee Regiment, 
some of whom have been trained very quickly in the various camps run by the leaders of 
these two para-military forces. But nevertheless, they are not equal in that way to the army. 
And it is not in our national interest that an entire people, not just the Mukti Bahini, but 
the entire unarmed population of Bangladesh should be annihilated. Although the threat is 


* Shri Syed Husain. 


905 


already great, anything like this happening or even happening partially would increase the 
thréat to our security immediately and also for the future 


On the western side, our armed forces were deployed sometime after the Pakistani 
troops moved up to our borders . We have not taken any initiative there. But as I said, we 
shall meet and threat to our freedom or our security and, of course, we feel that the present 
threat just is not merely threat but a threat to the very foundation on which India is built 
and on which India is surviving. 


Now, there are suggestions you have heard about the withdrawal of troops. I have 
already explained in the other forum why we cannot withdraw our troops in the west 
because our lines of communication, the cantonments and so on are so placed that Pakistan 
has a very great advantage, and having twice been taken unawares by Pakistan in this 
very area, in Kashmir and so on, we cannot afford that risk. But I would certainly welcome 
the withdrawal of troops and I think the troops that should be withdrawn straightaway are 
the Pakistani troops in Bangladesh. They are far from their homes, they are also suffering 
and I think that they should be taken back to rejoin their families and friends in West 
Pakistan. And this would be a positive response from Pakistan to show that they do want 
a solution in Bangladesh. It would be a gesture for peace. And I do feel that in today’s 
circumstances, the very presence of Pakistani troops in Bangladesh, as I said earlier, is a 
threat to our own security. 


I think that I have answered most of the points. So far as the present situation is 
concerned, as you know, the Mukti Bahini is facing very courageously, it is a very difficult 
fight they are fighting very bravely, and they have our good wishes, and they have our 
support also. Nobody can predict what the future will bring but as I have said on an earlier 
occasion, nothing is going to ease the situation immediately. No matter what happens, what 
steps we take, the next month will be of very great difficulty to us and also to the people 
of Bangladesh. I mean we have to know there is no solution, which is a magic solution, 
which will end the suffering of the refugees or end the burdens on us. This just cannot 
happen with the best will in the world. I am glad that this unity has been shown. Shni 
Chatterjee spoke something about our singling out his party and so on. I can assure him 
that it is not at all our intention. But certain things had happened in West Bengal. I am 
glad that the situation has improved greatly and once there is peace there will be no course 
for anybody to be poised against anybody else, and this is the time when all parties should 
unite, because, as I said, the burden on the Indian people is very great and the challenge 
and the difficulties we face are extremely difficult, and they will need all the strength we 
have, all the resources we have and all the unity and determination which we can bring to 
bear upon. I have full confidence that all parties will respond to this challenge and together 
we will be able to come out of what is a dark period for us and for the people of Bangladesh 
. We will come out of it and they will be able to make a new life for themselves. Thank 
you. 


Recognition to Bangladesh* 


The valiant struggle of the people of Bangladesh in the face of tremendous odds has 
opened a new chapter of heroism in the histroy. of freedom movements. 


Earlier, they had recorded a great democratic victory in thier elections and even the 
President of Pakistan had conceded the right of Sheikh Muyjibur Rahman to become Prime 
Minister of Pakistan. We shall never know what intervened to transform this benevolent 
mood and realistic approach, if it really was that, to deception and the posture of open 
hatred. 


We are told that Sheikh Muyibur Rahman and his party , the Awami League, had planned 
a non-violent movement of resistance to the Government of West Pakistan. But they were 
caught unawares and overtaken by a brutal military assault. They had no alternative but to 
declare for imdependence. The East Pakistan Rifles and East Bengal Regiment became 
the Mukti fauj and later the Mukti Bahini, which was joined by thousands of young East 
Bengalies, determined to sacrifice their lives for freedom and the right to fashion their 
future. The unity, determination and courage with which the entire population of Bangladesh 
is fighting have been recorded by the world press. 


These events on our doorstep and the resulting flood of refugees into our territory could 
not but have far-reaching repercussions on our country. It was natural that our sympathy 
should be with the people of Bangladesh in their just struggle. But we did not act 
precipitately in the matter of recognition. Our decisions were not guided merely by emotion 
but by an assessment of prevailing and future realities. 


With the unanimous revolt of the entire people of Bangladesh and the success of their 
struggle it has become increasingly apparent that the so called mother State of Pakistan 
is totally incapable of bringing the people of Bangladesh back under its control. As for 
the legitimacy of the Government of Bangladesh, the whole world is now aware that it 
reflects the will of the overwhelming majority of the people, which not many governments 
can Claim to represent. In Jefferson’s famous words to Governor Morris, the Government 
of Bangladesh is supported by the “will of the nation, substantially expressed”. Applying 
this criterion, the Military regime in Pakistan, whom some States are so anxious to buttress, 
is hardly representative of its people even in West Pakistan. 


Now that Pakistan is waging war against India, the normal hesitation on our part not 
to do anything which could come in the way of a peaceful solution, or which might be 


* Statement regarding recognition to Bangladesh, L.S.Deb., 6 December, 1971, cc.16-19. 


907 


- construed as intervention, has lost significance. The people of Bangladesh battling for their 
véry existence and the people of India fighting to defeat aggression now find themselves 
partisans in the same cause. 


I am glad to inform the House that in the light of the existing situation and in response ee 
to the repeated requests of the Government of Bangladesh, the Government of India have as 
after the most careful consideration. decided to grant recognition to the Gana Praja Tantrik oe 
Bangladesh. a 

It is our hope that with the passage of time more nations will grant recognition and | 
that the Gana Praja Tantrik Bangladesh will soon form part of the family of nations. 


Our thoughts at this moment are with the father of this new State—-Sheikh Mujibur 
Rahman. I am sure that this house would wish me to convey to thier Excellencies the Acting 
President of Bangladesh and the Prime Minister and to their colleagues, our greetings and 
warm felicitations. 


I am placing on the Table of the House copies of the communications* which we have 
received from the Government of Bangladesh. Hon. Members will be glad to know that 
the Government of Bangladesh have proclaimed their basic principles of State policy to 
be democracy, socialism, secularism and the establishment of an egalitarian society in 
which there would be no discrimination on the basis of race, religion, sex or creed. In 
regard to foreign relations, the Bangladesh Government have expressed their determination 
to follow a policy of non-alignment, peaceful co-existence and opposition to colonialism, 
racialism and imperialism वा all its manifestations. These are the ideals to which India also 
is dedicated. 


The Bangladesh Government have reiterated their anxiety to organise the expeditious 
return of their citizens who have found temporary refuge in our country, and to restore ~ 
their lands and belongings to them. We shall naturally help in every way in these 
arrangements. 


I am confident that in future the Government and the peoples of India and Bangladesh, 
who share common ideals and sacrifices, will forge a relationship based on the principles 
of mutual respect for each other’s sovereignty and territorial integrity, non-interference in 
internal affairs, equality and mutual benefit. Thus working together for freedom and 
democracy, we shall set an example of good neighbourliness which alone can ensure peace, 
stability and progress in this region. Our good wishes to Bangladesh.** 


* 1. Letter dated 24 April, 1971 from Mr. Syed Nazrul Islam, Acting President of the People’s Republic of Bangladesh 
to the President of the Republic of India alongwith a copy of the Proclamation of Independence, Laws Continuance 
Enforcement Order and a list of Cabinet members; and 
2. Letters dated 15 October, 1971, 23 November, 1971 and 4 December, 1971 from Government of the People’s ०27४ 
Republic of Bangladesh to the Prime Minister of India. ne 
** The Prime Minister, Smt. Indira Gandhi made an identical Statement in Rajya Sabha also. (R.S. Deb., 6 December, 
1971, cc. 23-26.) 


anaes eae आर 


ve fae 
Se we ee 


Friendship, Co-operation and Peace 
Between India and Bangladesh“ 


I have the honour to lay on the Table of the House texts of the Treaty of Friendship, 
Cooperation and Peace and of the Joint Declaration which Sheikh Mujibur Rahman, Prime 
Minister of the People’s Republic of Bangladesh and I signed at Dacca on 19 March, 
1972. 


I should like to emphasise that the Treaty embodies the will of the two Governments 
to pursue common policies in matters of interest to both countries and solemnises the close 
ties friendship between our two countries and peoples cemented through blood and sacrifice. 
The Treaty and the Declaration will guide us on our journey into the future in quest of 
peace, good neighbourliness and the well being of our two peoples. 


The joint Declaration emphasises the importance of close coordination and cooperation 
between the two countries in trade and payments, economic development and transit. I 
should like to invite the attention of hon. Members to that portion of the Declaration which 
deals with the exciting prospect of harnessing the waters of Brahmaputra, Meghna and 
Ganga to the benefit of the two peoples. 


It is our earnest hope that the Treaty which affirms our common goals and ideals and 
reiterates our firm adherence to the policy of non-alignment and peaceful co-existence, 
will lead to lasting peace and co-operation not only between India and Bangladesh but in 
the sub-continent and the region as a whole. 


* Statement regarding the ‘Treaty of Friendship, Cooperation and Peace with Bangladesh” and the Joint Declaration 
of the Prime Ministers of India and Bangladesh, LS. Deb., 20 March, 1972, cc. 239-40. 


Crisis in East Bengal* 


Mr. Deputy Chairman, Sir, we have watched the happenings in Pakistan earlier, that 
is, the election in East Bengal with great admiration and hope; hope that it was the 
.beginning of a new future for the whole country, a future which would make them more 
united and strong. But, as my colleague, Sardar Saheb, has said, far from leading into this 
brightness they have turned along a dark path, a-tragic path, bringing suffering—in fact, 
perhaps. suffering is too small a word—to an entire people. I am sure hon. Members will 
appreciate that however heavy our hearts may be, however deeply we may be sharing the 
agony of the people there, it is not possible for the Government to speak in the same words 
as hon. Members can do. In fact, it is because we are so deeply conscious of the historic 
importance of this moment that we are, at the same time, aware of the seriousness of the 
Situation when a wrong step, a wrong word, can have an effect entirely different form the 
one which we all just intend. The House is aware that we have to act within certain 
international norms. 


It is good to see that the Parties here have expressed certain views. For instance, the 
Swatantra Party has expressed admiration for the socialist programme of Shri Mujibur 
Rahman. The Jan Sangh has supported his secular policy and have also said that the people 
of East Bengal are their brothers. I hope they will extend the same sympathy to all the 
people of our own country too. As I said earlier, we are not unaware of what is taking 
place in East Bengal and of what it means to the people there and also of the danger that 
it holds for us, not for any one part cf our country, but for the entire country. So we are 
interested in this matter for many reasons, firstly as one Member** has said, that Shn 
Mupibur Rahman has stood for the values which we ourselves cherish, the values of 
democracy, the values of secularism and the values of socialism. We are also concerned 
with the truly wonderful and unique way in which the people there had stood behind him 
and supported these values. We are no less full of sorrow and grave concern and even 
agony at what is happening in East Bengal, but I can only appeal to the hon. Members 
that this is not the moment when the Government can say anything more. Whateve: the 
Government may or may not be able to do, it would not be wise for this to become a matter 
for public debate. I do not think that hon. Members expect us to give replies to the various 
questions which were asked. I think the purpose of this discussion was more for us to know 


* Replying to clarifications sought by Members on the Statement made by Sardar Swaran Singh, Minister of External 
Affairs on developments in Pakistan, R.S. Deb., 27 March, 19772, cc. 148-49. 


** Shri Chitta Basu. 


910 


their minds and hear their suggestions. As hon. Members know, I held a meeting this 
morning with the Leaders of the Opposition parties, which practice, I hope, to continue. 
We are as closely in touch with the happenings in East Bengal as 1s possible in the present 
situation. I hope to kcep closely in touch with the Leaders of the Opposition as well as 
other Members who would like to come and meet me so that we can know their mind. We 
cannot always, I must admit, give our mind but we will certainly tell them as much as is 
possible to do. 


911 


indo-Soviet Friendship“ 


Mr. Deputy Chairman, Sir, the Chairman of the Presidium of the Supreme Soviet of 
USSR, General Secretary of the Communist Party of Soviet Union His Excellency Mr. 
Leonid Ilyich Brezhnev visited India from December 8-11. This was a visit to which both 
India and the USSR attached great importance and one which was in response to an 
invitation which he had extended to him in Belgrade last May. The visit was significant 
also because of international and regional situations. I had several opportunities of having 
detailed talks with the Soviet leader on various matters of mutual interest. At the end of 
the visit we signed a Joint Declaration. A copy of that declaration has already been placed 
on the Table of the House. 


We in India value our friendship with the Soviet Union which goes to even before our 
Independence. I participated in the celebrations of the 500 anniversary of the October 
Revolution in Moscow. Years earlier my father had gone to the Soviet Union as a 
representative of the Indian National Congress at its 10th anniversary. The friendship which 
has since developed is a multifaceted one which has benefited: the peoples of the two 
countnies and has contributed to world peace and stability. The socio-economic systems 
of our two countries are different but we do share a common and abiding commitment to 
the strengthening of world peace. 


It was a good augury that the Soviet President should visit India in a year which marks 
the silver jubilee of Indo-Soviet economic cooperation. President Brezhnev is an old fnend 
of India and has been here in 1961 and 1973. In many ways he has been the architect of 
the edifice of Indo-Soviet Friendship. President Brezhnev was accompanied by a 
distinguished delegation amongst whom were Foreign Minister Gromyko and First Deputy 
Prime Minister Arkhipov, who are also our friends of long standing. 


We discussed a large number of questions especially those of direct concern to our 
countries. We both agreed on the need for a climate of peace and co-operation in our 
neighbourhood and for making determined efforts towards this end by all concerned. For, 
indeed, Indo-Soviet relations are not against any third country. It is a fnendship that we 
both value greatly and in our pursuit of good neighbourly relations, we ensure that Indo- 
Soviet relations are not adversely affected. More than words, our deeds bear out the truth 
of this assertion. 


* Statement on the visit to India of Mr. 1.1. Brezhnev, General Secretary of the Central Committee of the CPSU and 
Chairman of the Presidium of the Supreme Soviet of the USSR, R.S. Deb., 15 December, 1980, cc. 313- 20. 


912 


On the bilateral side our discussions were focussed on the further strengthening of the 
co-operation between our two countries. An agreement on Economic and Technical 
Cooperation which I signed with President Brezhnev provides a framework for this. The 
Soviet Union has agreed to cooperate with India in three very important sectors—power, 
coal mining and oil exploration. This is over and above the traditional cooperation in ferrous 
metallurgy, more specifically the expansion of Bhilai and Bokaro and the erection of a 
new integrated steel plant at Vishakhapatnam. The two sides have identified some specific 
projects which were left out of the 6th Plan because of lack of resources. Thanks to an 
offer of Soviet credit of Roubles 520 million—Slightly under Rs. 520 crore—these will 
now be taken up during the next 4 to 6 years. They will contribute significantly to the 
further strengthening of India’s industrial sinews. Three more Agreements were signed 
during the visit:— 


(1) Trade Agreement. 
(2) Protocol on Co-operation in the field of cinematography. 


(3) Programme of Cultural, Scientific and Educational Exchanges for the years 1981- 
82. 


Hon. Members will be glad to hear that in response to our request the Soviet Union 
has agreed to increase its supplies of crude oil to India from the current level of 1.5 million 
tonnes to 2.5 million tonnes annually and of oil products from 1.9 million tonnes to 2.25 
million tonnes annually for the next five years. This will be against additional exports from 
India and will suvstantially boost our two-way trade. We appreciate this friendly gesture. 


Our discussions on international relations covered the world situation in general and 
affairs in our region in some detail. On the Indian Ocean and on the continuing conflict 
between Iran and Iraq, there was a close proximity of views. 


On Afghanistan the views of the Soviet Union with which the hon. Members are already 
familiar, were reiterated by President Brezhnev. On our part we made our perceptions clear 
and conveyed our serious concern. We expressed our opposition to all forms of outside 
interference in the internal affairs of other countries whether through the induction of regular 
troops or through infiltration and our view that all such interference should stop in order 
to make possible a political solution. 


Both sides agreed that there is no alternative to a peaceful political solution to the 
problems in South West Asia as well as to other situations wherever they may arise. The 
Soviet leader expressed the hope that India would continue to play her constructive role 
in defusing the situation and था helping to find peaceful political solutions. 


Continuing tensions and growing conflicts in our region have given outside forces an 
opportunity to exploit these tensions to their advantage. Recent years have seen a revival 
of efforts by certain non-littoral great powers to increase or consolidate their military 
presences in the Indian Ocean. There is much activity in building existing bases and 1n 
acquiring new bases and facilities. We have ourselves been demanding that the entire Indian 


913 


_ Ocean should be freed of great power presences so that it can become a zone of peace. 
Fhe people of Asia and Africa can ill-afford embroilment in this international power game 
which seems to be the beginning of a new cold war. We have shared our concern frankly 
with our Soviet friends. 


We have not looked upon the situation in South-West Asia in isolation, either as a 
situation affecting this or that country or only a group of countries. These tensions are 
related to regional and global situations. The great powers have special responsibility in 
bringing about general and positive improvement in relations on a global scale and in this 
context the proposals made by President Brezhnev in his address to the hon. Member appear 
constructive and worthy of careful consideration. 


The soviet leaders made no secret of their concern with the new escalating tensions in 
Europe and the stalemate in Central European disarmament negotiations. Hon. Members 
will recall that the two World Wars the most devastating conflicts mankind has ever known 
began on the continent of Europe. It is, therefore, imperative that peace prevails in Europe. 
The process of detente in Europe contributed to the acceptance of post-war realities and 
the promotion of mutual confidence and cooperation. We hope that this process will recover 
from its recent setbacks and will be strengthened and extended to other regions of the globe. 


The visit of the Soviet President has afforded us a valuable opportunity of reaffirming 
the strength and vitality of Indo-Soviet relations. These relations are based on trust and 
mutuality of interest and have therefore stood the test of tme. Even though we may 
occasionally have different perceptions on some specific event our friendship will prosper 
and we can continue to cooperate between ourselves and with other like-minded countries 
in our dedication to the maintenance and strengthening of world peace.* 


eh me af ae के ae oe के 


The hon. Member who spoke just now, Shrimati Purabi Mukherjee seems to have 
replied on my behalf.** I appreciate it. As she said, in joint declaration we usually mention 
the areas of agreement. We have made our view on Afghanistan clear on all occasions, 
and again in the statement which I have just read out I have clarified the slight difference 
of opinion. I do not think that the presence or absence of a particular word means anything. 
Interference and intervention, as you know, are more or less the same. I think our meaning 
is Clear to them and to us. 


President Brezhnev did clarify the Soviet view on Poland. This matter came up later 
when the Foreign Minister spoke here. A Soviet spokesman has denied reports that Soviet 
troops marched into Poland. 


So far as the geographical position of South West Asia is concerned, one has only to 
look at the map. The southern part of West Asia is South West Asia. We use this phrase 
rather than the Western phrase, Middle East. Middle East has no meaning. It just depends 


* An identical Statement was made by the Prime Minister, Smt. Indira Gandhi in Lok Sabha also. (LS. Deb., 
15 December, 1980, cc. 326-30.) 


** Replies were sought by Shri Jaswant Singh. 


914 


from where you look. If you take Asia you know what is on the west and what is on the 
east. That is why we have used this phrase. 


So far as the question of the language I used is concerned,* had the function been held 
in the Red Fort I would have spoken in Hindi. On looking at the audience it seemed that a 
large part of the audience did not know Hindi. As there was another Hindi speech there, I 
thought it would be better for me to speak in English. 


My views on Hindi are well known. While I am all for the propagation of Hindi, I am 
not for its imposition on anybody. 


* Referring to the suggestion in this regard by Shri Shiv Chandra Jha. 


915 


Situation in Lebanon* 


Mr. Deputy Chairman, Sir, the House is aware of the tragic situation that has developed 
in West Asia. Our Government have consistently reaffirmed their stand through the years. 
We have always supported the cause of the Palestinians and, in fact, even when Mahatma 
Gandhi was there, he and my father and other leaders had realised the consequences of 
displacing the Palestinians from their homeland. . 


Well, that was almost before my ttme**. So our stand continues to be the same. Now 
the situation has become much more dangerous and much more threatening to us as well 
as to the values and the ideals and the policies for which we have stood and for which we 
have worked. Now I shall read the statement. 


The unprovoked Israeli invasion of Lebanon and the brutal killing of thousands of 
Lebanese and Palestinian civilians has aroused deep anguish and revulsion in the entire 
world community. This Israeli action is a flagrant violation of all canons of international 
law and behaviour. It is indicative of an arrogance which has shown callous disregard for 
the nights of other nations and peoples. 


Since the invasion on June 6, the efforts of the International Community to secure 
vacation of aggression have made no progress, as Israel continues to defy counsels of 
restraint. It has callously ignored the unanimous Resolutions adopted by the Security 
Council and the Resolution adopted by the Special Session of the United Nations General 
Assembly. 


The Israeli blockade of West Beirut is now being further ughtened. Many hundred 
thousand residents are totally deprived of essential supplies of water, electricity, food and 
medical assistance. The entire civilian population is being starved out. The cease-fire, such 
as it is, is fragile and precarious. Beirut could well be totally destroyed and its population 
annihilated. This unabashed use of force is totally contrary to all norms and tenets of 
international behaviour. Israel’s cynical and contemptuous disregard of international 
opinion, its continuing aggression and its use of military means to seek political objective 
provide a very sad precedent for the future. 


At a time when there were hopes for some progress in the resolution of the Palestinian 
problem, Israel has chosen to exacerbate it, thus imperilling the possibilities of long-term 


* Making a Statement regarding the crisis in Lebanon, R.S. Deb., 9 July 1982, cc 288-90, 298-302. 
** Responding to Shri Ramamurthi’s remark, “As early as in 1919 we raised it”. 


COLL ९४ 


916 


stability in the sensitive and strategic West Asian region. Israeli attempts to wipe out the 
Palestinian Movement cannot succeed in the long run. A popular movement, based on the 
legitimate aspirations of the Palestinian people, cannot be put down by use of arms. History 
is replete with instances of the failure of military force to crush popular movements. Israel 
will be well advised to pay heed to the growing world-wide vocal concern, including the 
voices of thousands of its own people who have demonstrated against this invasion of 
Lebanon. 


On behalf of my Government, I should like to call upon nations who are in a position 
to influence Israel to take immediate steps to lift the siege of West Beirut and withdraw 
its troops to its own territory. After this immediate objective is achieved, negotiations must 
begin for a just, comprehensive and durable solution acceptable to all concerned. Such a 
solution must ensure the sovereignty, independence and territonal integrity of Lebanon 
and the inalienable nghts of the Palestinian people, including their right to an independent 
nation-state. * 


a a a मर he मे मई ae और 


Mr. Deputy Chairman, I am glad that all hon. Members who have spoken have 
supported the statement. Some of them have asked to me to name the instigator. Now, 
frankly, Sir, I do not think that Israel needs to be instigated. They have their hawks. We 
know their policy and we know how they have been proceeding. It is true that they are 
emboldened by the support they get from powerful elements outside. 


ak fe और ak a और ae oe मु 


America, certainly**. Some weeks ago I wrote to President Reagon on this issue. I 
have written also to President Brezhnev and to President Mitterand, I thought that these 
people could do something about the matter. We are also in touch with other Heads of 
State and our Foreign Minister is in touch, through diplomatic channels, with others. The 
non-aligned group is as active as it can be. They are having a ministerial level meeting, 
for which the date, the venue, etc. are being discussed. This 1s a situation when I feel sorry 
that we are not more powerful. We are doing whatever we can, what 1s in our power to 
do. We were the first, and may be, even the only country which immediately sent a medical 
team, aS soon as we learnt about the casualties and injured. But already, at that time, it 
was difficult for the team to enter the areas of Beirut where medical help was most needed. 
However, they were able to render service to the wounded who were just outside Beirut 
or who had been evacuated to Syria and to other parts. We also sent, to the extent of our 
capacity, blankets and medicines which the PLO had asked for. We have heard that the 
International Red Cross is not allowed to go there. There is nothing much more that we 
can do except to approach and persuade, and this we have been doing. The Indian Red 
Cross has sent a gift of 10 surgical units, each comprising 3 to 5 tonnes of equipment. 


* An identical Statement was made by the Prime Minister, Smt. Indira Gandhi in Lok Sabha also, (LS. Deb., 9 July, 
1982, cc. 347-48.) 
** Responding to Shri Shiv Chandra 28 8 query, “America”? 


917 


54०20 
ey 


“These are being airlifted to Geneva and to Cyprus from where they will go to Lebanon. 
These gifts are made over to the Palestinian Red Cross and the Lebanese Red Cross for 
use by their medical teams. 


It is true that the non-aligned movement and the United Nations itself have not been 
as effective as we would have hoped to be. All we can do is to keep urging them to try to 
achieve unity amongst.the developing countries, amongst the Group of 77 and amongst 
all these people who believe in the same ideals. In this particular matter, we need unity 
amongst those who are supporting the cause of the Palestinians. Unfortunately disunity is 
lessening our effectiveness. Even if we were united, the powers that are against us would 
still be much stronger. What is emerging—it is still very much at an initial stage—is world 
opinion. The general public must be...aroused in al] countries. This matter does not concern 
just the Arabs or the Muslims. Some people have said that our policy is dictated by sectional 
interests. We are not pressurised by anybody. We have looked at this question from the 
larger perspective and our party, the Congress Party, and we as individuals were deeply 
concermed with the plight of the Jews in Europe and for what they had suffered throughout 
their long history and especially the worst part of it in Hitler’s Germany, when millions of 
Jews were exterminated. They had our fullest sympathy and also admiration, because in 
spite of that hardship and harassment, so many of them rose to the top in every field of 
activity. When Israel was formed, our Leaders, Mahatmaji, my father and others, 
sympathised fully with the Jews. But they realised that the manner in which Israel was 
brought into being could only lead to conflict and tension. The problem had been a purely 
European problem. There was no Palestinian problem. The Jews, the Arabs and the 
Christians were living peacefully and in harmony for hundreds of years in Jerusalem and 
Palestine. The problem was European one. It existed even before Hitler. The Jews were 
thrown out of their homes and villages. They were killed and harassed. Suddenly, ‘the 
powers to be picked this problem up from Europe and transplanted it in an area where 
there had hitherto been peace and harmony. Now, the Jewish problem has disappeared from 
Europe but is critical on Palestine, since hundreds and thousands of people were displaced 
and forced to seek refuge elsewhere. This has created hardship, bitterness and hatred. 
Mahatmaji and others realized this. The hon. Member opposite has reminded us. I was 
only one and half year’s old at that time. The reason why we did not support the United 
Nations resolution was that while sympathising with the plight of the Jews, we felt that it 
was not possible to solve the problem of one group of people by creating a similar problem 
for another group. So, we are trying to do whatever we can by speaking to people and by 
meeting people. The Ambassador of the P.L.O. here is keeping us in touch with 
developments. 


An hon. Member has spoken about Indians fighting in Lebanon. Perhaps hon. Members 
have seen the contradiction that was issued immediately. There are Indians in Lebanon. 
So far as we are aware they are not involved in the fighting. They have gone there for 
work. 


he मे मम मे मंप्क॑ के 


918 


कक की 


कम gr अंक हक 


Thi ht 
SSNs 
८.४५: 
SEBO 
पक eel ot 
Se RET Pea 
Seis 
ee 


em 


४ कर otters 
«शक 1१७ 
LRGs oe aan 
Blotter ate. 
कान 
tht it oe ee 
oat als 
होना, फल, 
मी ete ete 
नल. बटन न, 
Fea 


कक अप] 
ae ieee 


It is not a question of wrong or right*. So far as our information goes, there are no 
Indian soldiers. But the hon. Member knows that much of the aerial bombing was an 
civilian quarters. The bombs have fallen on hospitals, on schools, on the living quarters 
of workers and others. So, if some Indians have fought in self-defence—this is a guess 
work on my part—that is an understandable situation. 


An hon. Member has remarked on his visit to the socialist countries and informed the 
House that they were all looking to me to do something. I should like to remind him that 
the socialist countries are much stronger than we are militarily and technologically. In any 
move to solve this critical problem, we shall be glad to help in whatever way it is possible 
for us. But the socialist countries themselves should know that while they are looking to 
me, their friends and allies in India are looking the other way and doing their best to prevent 
me from functioning effectively. 


* Replying to Shri Kalyan Roy's observation, “What is wrong there ? We have fought in the Spanish Civil War 7" 


919 


ह हनन, 


हक eee 


Boe 


3,०८५ ५५५४१ 
wee ey 


बुर 
ee ee 


४22०8 1 2१०7 
20006 7270 y 
अमर जार 
2] 
५ अर 


Aone ata 
we ० 
Ca en 


israeli Invasion of Lebanon* 


Sir, no event in recent years has pained and shocked humankind as the Israeli invasion 
of Lebanon, atrocities committed there, specially brutal, heartless and merciless massacre 
of the civilian population. 


What is a matter of even greater shame ts the state of helplessness of the international 
community in dealing with a Member of the United Nations who has unabashedly invaded 
another Member State. The Security Council has passed unanimous resolution calling for 
a ceasefire and withdrawal. These have been arrogantly ignored. World leaders have 
condemned these actions. This has had no impact on Israel. While withdrawing its military 
presence from West Beirut, the PLO was guaranteed protection of the Palestinian civilian 
population. Nevertheless, over 1000 defenseless men, women and children were massacred 
in a manner reminiscent of atrocities committed during World War II. Even those who 
have been sympathetic to Israel and people in Israel itself are protesting against such deeds. 
We have heard of PLO prisoners being tortured in Israel. 


As hon. Members are well aware, there has been massive public sympathy in India 
for the unimaginable sufferings of the Palestinian people. Our hearts and sympathies go 
out to them. Their lands were forcibly occupied. They are homeless, having been driven 
out of their hearths and homes. For over three decades theirs has been a life of humiliation, * 
misery and sufferings. 


We view this Israeli aggression and their acts of genocide with abhorrence. We have 
made our views known in public, at the United Nations, and in many chancelleries of the 
world. I have written to several world leaders. I have personally spoken to others whom I 
have met since the Israeli aggression. If universally accepted norms of international law 
and behaviour are to be observed and respected as they must be, then due value must be 
placed on human life and property whether in Europe, America, Africa or Asia and global 
peace, stability and security must not be further jeopardised. We have to work collectively 
for a just, equitable and durable solution. 


A sense of urgency is also involved. A very heavy price has been paid in the form of 
military destruction, loss of human lives and sufferings of hundreds of thousands of helpless 
human beings. Even today the atmosphere in West Asia is increasingly surcharged with 
emotions of anger and hatred, of revenge and reprisals. All this must be ended. The use of 
force never brought any lasting solution. Destruction and killing is self-defeating. The 


* Making a Statement regarding the Isracli invasion of Lebanon, R.S. Deb, 5 October, 1982, cc. 317-20, 328-31. 


interest of all people is to live in an atmosphere of cooperation and friendship. We cannot 
covet or retain what does not belong to us. We must not deny to others their rights and 
what is theirs. Lands forcibly occupied must, therefore, be vacated. Peoples who have been 
uprooted and rendered homeless must be rehabilitated and provided a state of their own. 
Countries in the region must be assured of their security within internationally recognised 
frontiers. 


Therefore we appeal to all, particularly those in a position to influence Israel, to spare 
no effort in prevailing upon Israel to withdraw from Lebanon without delay. This must be 
the first step in a long process of finding a solution to the larger problem. Our foremost 
priority must be to work collectively in initiating a new peace process towards a 
comprehensive and final settlement. 


The tragedy of Lebanon has been grafted on the tragedy of Palestine. The UN Peace 
Keeping Forces and others are there. There exist several resolutions of the United Nations 
Security Council and General Assembly and lately we have also had some noteworthy plans 
and proposals. We welcome any effort towards a peaceful settlement. We have to initiate 
and encourage trends of conciliation and negotiations. The parties directly involved, which 
must include the PLO, need to play a major role. These efforts should also have the full 
involvement and support of the super powers. I should like to assure hon. Members that 
India will not be found wanting in this regard*. 


2 hak ape a मै Hea ak 


Sir, first of all I Shall deal with the last question which is about the Non-aligned 
Conference schedule to be held here**. The question was whether in this Conference we 
would take some positive steps. I am sure hon. Members will realise that it would not be 
proper for me to commit the Conference to any stand now. I think we can guess what the 
unanimous view would be, but it would still not be nght for me to speak of it before the 
countries express their own views at the Conference. As Chairman of the Conference it 
has to be our task to keep the movement cohesive and strong, and to try to take it in the 
direction which we consider correct, but we have to consider the views of others also. 


Sir, we do not equate all the Powers. If the hon. Member will recall my statement, 
when I say “full involvement and support” I do not mean that both the super powers are 
involved in what is happening in West Asia, but that without the support no steps or efforts 
for peace can succeed and this applies not only to them, but to the whole world. However, 


* An identical Statement was made by the Prime Minister, Smt. Indira Gandhi in Lok Sabha also, (LS. Deb., 5 
October, 1982, cc 426-28) 

** Replying to the questions asked/clarifications sought by the members. Some of these were as follows : Shni P. 
Ramamurti blamed United States of America for Israeli invasion of Palestine. Shri Shridhar Wasudeo Dhabe 
enquired about the steps taken by the Indian Government to protect Indian prisoners in Israel. Shri Dinesh Goswami 
felt that the atrocities could not be properly reflected in our media. He suggested that Government might do 
something so that these things would be adequately projected by the media. Shri Gulam Mohi-ud-din Shaw! 
wanted to know about the positive steps that the Government proposed to suggest to the non-aligned forum. Shri 
Sourendra Bhattacharjee referring to the concluding portion of the statement said that the super-powers had been 
placed at the same level in the statement and suggested that there should be a specific and categorical pronouncement. 


921 


. being the bigger powers with greater strength, the support of the Super Powers to any peace 
mtoye is essential. We do know that Israel has received considerable help and encouragement 
from the United States but at least now the United States is condemning Israel’s latest 
actions. We can only hope that they will take some action on this. 


I believe that when the news of the capture of Indians appeared in our newspapers, it 
was contradicted. So far as I know, no Indians were involved in the fighting. There were 
some civilian detenues. I have not heard of any U.S. personnel manning Israel’s aircraft. 


aR के eh के wR कं ae 


Hon. Members know that we ourselves are supporters of the Palestinian cause from 
the very beginning. Hon. Member, Shri Ramamurti has drawn attention to an earlier time. 
The Congress was loudest in its support to the sufferings of the Jews and we have raised 
our voice against their oppression and persecution in Europe, but we had clearly pointed 
out that the manner in which the State of Israel was created, establishing a new State in 
the place of an existing one, displacing a large population, would not only give rise to 
problems and sufferings for those who were displaced, but would create very serious 
problems for the whole world, and this is what, in fact, has happened. We gave our full 
support to the P.L.O. cause bilaterally and m international organisations. When the present 
trouble started, we sent a medical team. One team went on behalf of the Government. 
Another was planned by our party but when we heard that they would not be allowed into 
Beirut, it did not leave. Our team stayed for two months. We gave financial assistance as 
well as medicines, medical equipment, blankets and so on, for about Rs. 30 lakh. Apart 
from that we have contributed to the U.N. Fund for Relief and Works Agency (UNRWA) 
for refugees. 


In fact, we gave whatever we were asked for. We were in touch with Mr. Arafat, and - 
what we could give, we gave. They have expressed appreciation of our support in quite 
Clear terms. 


Somebody spoke about Indian M.Ps. going to Israel. I have not heard of this. I believe 
you all know that there is one M.P. who takes such a stand. He does not belong to our 
party. If you have any influence, you should exert it on him not to go to Israel. 


So far as sanctions or boycott of Israel is concerned, as you know we have no 
connection with them at all. So the question of boycott does not arise. 


I think I have answered all the questions. 


कं के के कं के के मं कं के 


I am sorry to say that I do not watch it*. I am not at all aware of this. But you have 
raised a valid point and perhaps even now it is not too late for our media to get hold of a 


* Replying to Shri Dinesh Goswami's intervention, “I spoke about our media 


film and show it. I will suggest this to them. We have done our utmost to mobilise world 
opinion on this matter. As I said earlier, wherever I have been, I have spoken, and I have 
written letters not only on the issue of Lebanon and the Paletinians but on the larger aspect 
of world peace. This is a high ideal which we believe is an Indian ideal. It is also a practical 
necessity for us to enable us to get ahead with our development plans, to serve our people 
and to give them better standards of living. 


rtd 


alate eal 


का 


ws tes 
orate tat 


नह अप 
1 
ae 


$%.९,९., ५ 
हज ४! 


oe 
eae 

ae 
2050 618 
% 1०1०७) 
४-० 

विश के न 
wR कल | 
निनाण पन 
Petar old 
i Sar tat 
ates 
Sly 
ISSN tent 
Rata oe 
erat 
tate मच 

peels 
RSet 
"न 
ee sate 

मकान 


Visit to Libya and Tunisia‘ 


Mr. Speaker, Sir, Hon. Members know of the proposal for my visits to Libya, Tunisia, 
Algeria and Egypt. This was in response to invitations which had been extended and 
accepted a long time ago. Libya and Tunisia have not been visited by any Indian President 
or Prime Minister, and they have been reminding us that such visits were overdue. 


These four are important members of the world community and prominent in the Non- 
Aligned Movement. We have had always close relations with them and have shared 
assessments with them on important international developments. We also have increasing 
mutually advantageous economic relations with these countries. The object of my visits 
was to strengthen our bilateral relations as also to discuss course of action regarding the 
deterioration of the situation in West Asia and elsewhere. Inspite of the importance of the 
subjects to be discussed, since the House is in session and events in our country need close 
watch, the stay in each country was anyhow to be very short, a day or two in each capital. 


Owing to the situation in Punjab, we did consider postponment of these visits. However, 
it was felt that it was too late to cancel the visits to Libya and Tunisia which are to begin 
tomorrow. It has now been decided to visit these two countries from the 7th to 9th 571 
and to postpone the visits to Algeria and Egypt for the time being. 


The Governments of Algeria and Egypt have been most understanding and have agreed 
to my coming at a later date soon. We are grateful to them for their helpfulness. 


The House knows that wherever I am, I am kept in constant touch with developments 
at home and receive all essential papers. It is my sincere hope that all sections of the people 
of Punjab will work together for countering the distrust and violence. 


It will be my privilege to carry the greetings and good wishes of the Indian people 
and of their elected representatives in this august House to the Governments and peoples 
of Socialist People’s Libyan Arab Jamahiriya and the Republic of Tunisia. 


* Making a Statement regarding her forthcoming visit to certain foreign countries, 1.5. Deb., 6 April, 1984, 
cc. 5337-39. 


Freedom of the Press* 


Mr. Speaker, Sir, I am glad to see the widespread interest in this measure. Wherever 
I have gone in the last few weeks, I have been questioned about it. Most of the newspapers 
have commented on it editorially, and the fact that the government of India have brought 
back the Bill, which was shelved ten years ago, is indicative of the great importance which 
we attach to it. 


In the long debate which took place in the Rajya Sabha, many opposing viewpoints 
were put forward and criticisms were made of some of the provisions of the Bill but, so 
for as [can remember, not a single Member opposed the Bill. 


The setting up of a Press Council was an important, perhaps the most crucial, 
recommendation of the Press Commission. It was felt at that time that the sooner the Press 
Commission was set up the better it would be for the profession of journalism, for the 
newspapers themselves and for the democratic process to which we all attach so much 
importance. Democracy, as we know, entails the balancing of the rights and privileges with 
duties and responsibilities. In a totalitarian set up the people and press are regulated by 
Government, but in a democracy the society must regulate itself. So, ideally, a code of 
conduct should grow from within and should be sustained by internal sanctions. But, so 
far as I know, neither on the part of the profession of journalism, nor of the newspaper 
industry, have we witnessed any such attempt at self-regulation. Nor have we noticed any 
move towards a code of conduct, especially in curbing restrictive and unfair practices. 


I hope hon. Members will not misunderstand me. I have had my share of bouquets 
and brick-bats from newspapers of the nght, the left and the centre, as well as from those 
who are not supposed to have any politics at all. 1 bear them no grudge and I would like 
to give credit where it is due. As newspapers go, our newspapers in India are of a high 
level, but cases do occur of breaches of accepted standards. So, the need for some machinery 
of self-regulation is self-evident. 


I am not unaware of the dangers inherent in this situation. Freedom of expression is a 
fundamental right but it is also one which can be easily abused. Lamartine said : 


When the press is the echo of sages and reformers, it works well; when it is the echo 
of turbulent cynics, it merely feeds political excitement. 


* Participating (as the Minister of Information and Broadcasting) in the discussion on the Motion regarding the Joint 
Committee on the Press Council Bill, 1963, L.S. Deb., 30 September, 1964, cc. 4588-92. 


927 


Similarly, Benjamin Franklin wrote : 


"If by the liberty of the press, we understand merely the liberty of discussing the 

propriety of public measures and political opinions, let us have as much of it as you 

please; but, if it means the liberty of affronting, calumniating, and defaming one another, 

I own myself willing to part with my share of it whenever our legislators shall please 

to alter the law; and shall cheerfully consent to exchange my liberty of abusing others 
for the privilege of not being abused myself. 


Some newspapers, while writing about this Bill, have commented that the regulations 
can be misinterpreted in the wrong hands. But that is true of any law or regulation. Yet, 
we cannot do without laws; Civilization consists of the individual’s voluntary acceptance 
of certain curbs on his behaviour and his desires. No civilized society can exist, or live an 
ordered life without regulations. For, while each man wants to be free, it is society’s duty 
to see that his freedom does not impinge on the freedom of others. 


In this Bill an effort has been made to safeguard the rights of the press and to protect 
its freedom of expression. We do hope that the new law will promote healthy traditions of 
journalism. If there are any lacunae or wrong trends, the proposed Joint Committee will 
no doubt look into them and correct them. Government have no other desire than to provide 
the best possible and the most carefully devised machinery for self-regulation. 


An important question is how freedom of the press and of the journalistic profession 
can operate within the framework of an industry. The Press Council will have to deal with 
both these aspects: with professional matters as well as with the future of the industry. 


Some hon. Members have spoken of the growing concentration and the monopolistic 
tendencies. These tendencies are not good anywhere. But in India, where most of the large 
newspapers are not only in a foreign language but emanate from cities which are . 
unrepresentative of the vast majority of our population, there is the grave danger that the 
viewpoint and self-interest of an exceedingly small section of society may be presented 
authoritatively as the voice of the people. These tendencies can be checked only by assuring 
free and fair competition and by lending a helping hand to small and medium-size papers. 
The other day there was a conference in Delhi of such newspapers and a long list of 
demands was presented. I certainly hope that Shri Diwakar’s Committee which is dealing 
with this matter, will go into these problems thoroughly and give us practicable suggestions 
for ameliorating the difficulties of the smaller newspapers. 


Sir, I do not wish to go into details. But one thing is certain, that to serve any useful 
purpose, the Press Council must be invested with dignity and authonity, so that it cannot 
be brought into contempt and so that it is respected by the Press as a whole. The 
recommendation that the Chief Justice of India should nominate the Chairman 15 to ensure 
that the Chairman should be a person of high integrity and impartiality and preferably of 
high judicial experience and expertise in assessing evidence. 


In the difficult times through which our country is passing the press has to remember 
its vast social responsibility. It is my fervent hope that the proposed Press Council will be 


a means to that end. It is with this desire that Government have introduced this Bill and 
seek to carry it through with whatever changes may be deemed necessary by the Joint 
Committee. 


Personally, I should like the tremendous powers of the press to be used to reveal the 
true voice of India, to urge and encourage our national efforts, to help in forging national 
unity and to achieve an identity of purpose with national policy. Thus, it could play a truly 
significant role in winning public co-operation and strengthening public participation in 
the great and challenging tasks which await us. 


Streamlining of Information and Broadcasting Ministry* 


Mr. Deputy-Speaker, Sir. Shri Nath Pai has delivered a very eloquent and moving 
speech. If he will allow me to say so, it was not correct in all its aspects. Most of the 
questions he asked were answered to the best of our ability in the statement which I had 
placed on the Table of the House. As the hon. Member has himself pointed out, in that 
statement, I admitted that much could be done to improve AIR as well as other sections 
of the Ministry. But perfection is a state which few of us, if any at all, can hope to attain. I 
know that none of the sections of my Ministry will ever say that they are perfect; no matter 
what we do, how much we do, there is always room for more to be done and for greater 
perfection. 


Having said that—Shri Nath Pai himself has read out from my statement—I do believe 
that there is room for improvement, and we are going into this matter very, very thoroughly, 
and that is why it has taken a little more time than we had anticipated. I shall first deal 
with some of the particular questions. The question of staff artistes has been mentioned. 
The number of staff artistes working there are 1,800 and not 13,000. 


मं मंध और eK कं मेक कं 


More decisions are adopted by the Committee in which non-officials are included. There | 
were various committees of enquiry. There was one departmental enquiry sometime ago, 
which made some recommendations, and many of those recommendations have already 
been implemented. It is also true that all staff artistes were not satisfied with the Committee 
or its recommendations, because they were not represented on the Committee itself although 
they were sent for and their viewpoint was taken. I have myself agreed to meet all those 
who are now dissatisfied and to see what complaints they have and as far as possible we 
shall try to meet those complaints. 


With regard to the allegations which have been made regarding the way in which the 
funeral was dealt with, I am sure you will appreciate, I was not in a position to hear these 
programmes myself and, therefore, I cannot express my personal opinion. These matters 
are very much a question of one’s personal taste. Views have been expressed even in this 
very short time both for and against the programme, as hon. Members have noticed. This 
is the state even in the public. There are a large number of people who appreciate the 
programme and there are people who do not like the way that it was done. But it was 


* Replying (as the Minister of Information and Broadcasting) to the Half-an-Hour Discussion on the proposals for 
streamlining of the work of Information and Broadcasting Ministry, L.S. Deb., 1 October, 1964, cc. 5014-22. 


930 


also, I think, Members should appreciate, in extremely difficult conditions that the AIR 
was functioning, because due to enormous crowds they were not able to get through 
everywhere they wanted to go, they were not able to get the people they wanted for 
commentary and there were many other difficulties in their way. 


With regard to the President’s programme, this was entirely up to the President when 
he will speak. As messages were received of the speech they were announced. 


me कं a ah ae के mie af के 


I am glad Shri Nath Pai has his own spies there*. What information the Ministry got 
finally they had to relay; they were not listening round the corners.... 


mK मं ae ae at मं He 2c 


I had already admitted right at the beginning that we are not claiming to be perfect or 
that no mistakes were made. I said that right at the beginning and I had have said it several 
times publicly, privately and in every possible way. 


shee मर ek के ak af a 


Some charges about nepotism and so on were made. I do not believe in this kind of 
general charge. If the hon. Member has any specific case in view, I think he should intimate 
it to me and I will certainly look into it. 


As far as the Director General’s right of appointing people is concerned, he can appoint 
people who have a fee up to Rs. 500 only. 


ak मर मर af af ae ae a 


Committees have been appointed to assist him.** 


Then, I am afraid, I do not have the exact amount of time that was devoted to Karnatic 
music. But we do have Karnatic music in regular broadcasts, in the National Programme 
and also in Vividh Bharati. 


I am sorry, I have no information of what happened in the other House regarding spies 
from Pakistan, but I can assure the hon. Member that there is no Russian propaganda being 
carried on the AIR, or indeed propaganda for any other country. 


me भर मर a 3 ak ao ok 


The most important question which Shri Nath Pai and some others have raised is with 
regard to the Committee of Enquiry which I have talked about myself. As I said, it is taking 
a little long time because we want to do a thorough job. We are in communication with 
experts who are advising us how to proceed with it. We hope that this matter will get under 


* Replying to Shri Nath Pai's remark, “The President was ready with bis speech at 3 O'clock”. 
** Replying to Shri Nath Pai's question, “Any Committee to assist him 7’ 


931 


ommittee could report in three months, but I am a 
time that is suggested is six months. We have : 
s of reference, but we do want this to be, as I 


हु way very soon. I had hoped that such a ० 
told that it would not be possible and the 


not yet finalized either the names or the term , . hs 
have myself stated on the floor of the House, as thorough as possible and we ant to wor. 
at two levels: that is, to tell us the things which we can do immediately while they are 


thinking of bigger changes which may take more time. With regard to the question whether 
there should be a corporation or not this is something which has got to be considered at 
the Cabinet level, although this Committee may give its views on this. 


It depends upon what view the Committee takes.* I personally do not think that just 
having a corporation will necessarily improve anything, because it is a question of having 
the right person in the right place, and that will be just as well in the present circumstances 


as in a corporation. 
We will make an attempt to do so.** 


Having said all this, I must also put another fact before the Members, which is this, 
that all the departments of the Ministry are working under a very difficult circumstance, 
which is lack of resources, lack of finance. At every stage we are told to cut down at a 
time when I personally feel that the Ministry should expand. By expansion I do not mean 
the personnel necessarily. 


eK की eK ae ae और कै 


Most of the discontent of the staff artistes are about their emoluments. We cannot 
increase them until we have larger funds at our disposal. With regard to staff artistes, there 
are two kinds—regular artistes and artistes engaged on contracts. As far as regular staff 
are concemed, their emoluments and conditions of service were reviewed by the Second 
Pay Commission and they are governed by the same rules and procedures as are applicable . 
to all other Government servants. 


ee मु HK मर ae He के 


Even the non-regular artistes have the usual benefits like medical aid, allotment of 
government residential accommodation, ordinary and maternity leave, travelling allowance 
and so on. 


ah a के me ah कं के के 


They have no associations.*** 


If hon. Members want any other information, I could let them have it later on. I do not 
have the figures with me. But I want to assure them, as I have done barely a week ago, 


* Replying to Shri Hem Barua's question : “Have you suggested to the Cabinet the idea of a corporation.” 
** Replying to Shri Hem Barua’s remark, “But you do not have the right people at the right places now.” 
*** Replying to Shri Hem Barua’s remark, “But you do not allow them to engage in trade union activities.” 


: TEE PE 
2०717 


a “te 22 ee rs 
2. 2222 :.. 


932 


that though we were thinking of forming this Committee, as I said, nothing has been 
finalized yet. But we are in touch with experts, and we certainly hope that this work will 
soon be under way. 


But it is not fair to compare the A.LR. with the B.B.C. The B.B.C. is not only a very 
big organisation with enormous funds at its disposal; it functions in a very small country. 
Here in India we are a vast country with many official Janguages—very many other 
languages which are not recognised, but which have to be recognised for our purposes. 


कं ak ak aK 9 मर ae कं: अर 


We have many programmes in tribal dialects and so on. Programmes have to be beamed 
at quite different levels. Shri Nath Pai found some of the programmes boring; but we have 
had reports from experts, not only Indian experts but people who come from U.N. and 
other places, that our radio forums are working exceedingly well, that the village people 
are taking great interest in them, and that there is a demand for more of them. And we are 
Certainly trying to extend the service. There are already 8,555 of them, whereas in 1959 
there were, I think, only about 400-385 or something like that. 


And there are farmers forums and many other rural programmes. I think those are the 
most important programmes. 


Another thing, a weakness which I have seen and which has been mentioned by the 
committee headed by Shn Vidyalankar, is the lack of coordination with some of the other 
Ministries. That is, that even those programmes which are effective are then blocked, 
because the information that the villager wants immediately afterwards is not available, 
whether on family planning or where to get better seed or something which has to be 
followed up in that particular district or in that particular region. We are also working on 
that, and we hope that all these deficiencies will be removed soon. 


I only hope that the hon. Members will show a little patience and that they will not 
attribute personal motives to anybody in this thing. Very many suggestions are coming, 
and we are all trying to work together to do a better job. It does not help if all kinds of 
motives are attributed to the people who are working there. That is not conducive either 
to greater unity or better working. 


933 


way very soon. I had hoped that such a committee could report in three months, but I am 
toid that 1t would not be possible and the time that is suggested is six months. We have 
not yet finalized either the names or the terms of reference, but we do want this to be, as I 
have myself stated on the floor of the House, as thorough as possible and we want to work 
at two levels; that is, to tell us the things which we can do immediately while they are 
thinking of bigger changes which may take more time. With regard to the question whether 
there should be a corporation or not this is something which has got to be considered at 
the Cabinet level, although this Committee may give its views on this. 


It depends upon what view the Committee takes.* I personally do not think that just 
having a corporation will necessarily improve anything, because it 1s a question of having 
the right person in the right place, and that will be just as well in the present circumstances 
as in a corporation. 


We will make an attempt to do so.** 


Having said all this, I must also put another fact before the Members, which 1s this, 
that all the departments of the Ministry are working under a very difficult circumstance, 
which is lack of resources, lack of finance. At every stage we are told to cut down at a 
time when I personally feel that the Ministry should expand. By expansion I do not mean 
the personnel necessarily. 


! मं mR और मं के a a के ok 


Most of the discontent of the staff artistes are about their emoluments. We cannot 
increase them until we have larger funds at our disposal. With regard to staff artistes, there 
are two kinds—regular artistes and artistes engaged on contracts. As far as regular staff 
are concemed, their emoluments and conditions of service were reviewed by the Second 
Pay Commission and they are governed by the same rules and procedures as are applicable 
to all other Government servants. 


के मं के eK मर We A oe 
Even the non-regular artistes have the usual benefits like medical aid, allotment of 


government residential accommodation, ordinary and maternity leave, travelling allowance 
and so on. 


a he मं के AK मु कं के के 
They have no associations. *** 


If hon. Members want any other information, I could let them have it later on. I do not 
have the figures with me. But I want to assure them, as I have done barely a week ago, 


* Replying to Shri Hem Barua’s question : “Have you suggested to the Cabinet the idea of a corporation.” 
** Replying to Shri Hem Barua’s remark, “But you do not have the right people at the right places now.” 
*** Replying to Shri Hem Barua’s remark, ‘But you do not allow them to engage in trade union activities.” 


932 


that though we were thinking of forming this Committee, as I said, nothing has been 
finalized yet. But we are in touch with experts, and we certainly hope that this work will 
soon be under way. 


But it is not fair to compare the A.LR. with the B.B.C. The B.B.C. is not only a very 
big organisation with enormous funds at its disposal; it functions in a very small country. 
Here in India we are a vast country with many official languages—very many other 
languages which are not recognised, but which have to be recognised for our purposes. 


me मं! a मं: के गुर कं oie के 


We have many programmes in tribal dialects and so on. Programmes have to be beamed 
at quite different levels. Shri Nath Pai found some of the programmes boring; but we have 
had reports from experts, not only Indian experts but people who come from U.N. and 
other places, that our radio forums are working exceedingly well, that the village people 
are taking great interest in them, and that there is a demand for more of them. And we are 
certainly trying to extend the service. There are already 8,555 of them, whereas in 1959 
there were, I think, only about 400-385 or something like that. 


And there are farmers forums and many other rural programmes. I think those are the 
most important programmes. 


Another thing, a weakness which I have seen and which has been mentioned by the 
committee headed by Shri Vidyalankar, is the lack of coordination with some of the other 
Ministries. That is, that even those programmes which are effective are then blocked, 
because the information that the villager wants immediately afterwards is not available, 
whether on family planning or where to get better seed or something which has to be 
followed up in that particular district or in that particular region. We are also working on 
that, and we hope that all these deficiencies will be removed soon. 


I only hope that the hon. Members will show a little patience and that they will not 
attribute personal motives to anybody in this thing. Very many suggestions are coming, 
and we are all trying to work together to do a better job. It does not help if all kinds of 
motives are attributed to the people who are working there. That is not conducive either 
to greater unity or better working. 


tate nee 


ee aap! 


933 


A Glance at the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting* 


Shri Hem Barua, in opening this debate, compared the Ministry of Information and 
Broadcasting to an empire. It is certainly true that through our mass media we are in 
constant touch with a very large number of people all over the country. The UNESCO 
Constitution says that wars begin in the minds of men, but so do all other ideas like love 
of country, the urge to work, the necessity for mutual understanding, the determination 
for unity. Therefore, the task before the Ministry is not only one of giving information to 
the public or putting specific problems before it, but also of creating a mental atmosphere. 
Here I must hasten to assure the hon. Members that we do not believe in having any kind 
of conformity, we believe in trying to encourage mature thought which can come only 
through flexibility of mind and awakening of curiosity. 


A developing country, especially one of the size of India, faces enormous problems, 
difficulties and pressures, and therefore needs to have a new approach in its mass media. 
Family planning, the food problem, the need for greater production etc., must all be dealt 
with taking into account the mental blockages, superstitions and traditions of the people 
which exist in different parts of the country. To gain the trust of the people, we must keep 
in touch with the thoughts which stir them. The Ministry is there to project the policies of 


the Government and to elucidate them. But I am very conscious of the fact that the media 


units should not become mere purveyors of Government bulletins. They must face the 
challenge of becoming live and imaginative communication links between our far-flung 
and diverse people and to try to draw the people into the process of the growth of the 
country, to help to make them more constructive and more informed participants in nation- 
building activities. We must try and create intellectual cement which will hold the people 
together no matter what the crisis, no matter what the provocation. 


The view that my Ministry has a role to play in the shaping of the national mind 1s 
one which has been voiced by many hon. Members, and by Shn Vidyalankar who has 
special knowledge of the Ministry because of the hard work put in by his committee and 
the very valuable suggestions made by it. Many of these suggestions have already been 
implemented, others are in the process of being implemented, and the few remaining ones 
are under consideration. 


I shall now try to deal with some of the points raised in the debate, but in the short 
time at my disposal, it may not be possible to mention every item. However, I should like 


* Replying to the debate (as the Minister of Information and Broadcasting) on the Demands for Grants, Ministry of 
Information and Broadcasting, LS. Deb., 9 April, 1965, cc. 8715-26. 


to assure the hon. Members that I have noted all the points, and shall look into them 
carefully, and also that we are always available for further suggestions. 


The need for increased import of newsprint and for better conditions for staff artistes 
and others are matters about which we ourselves have been deeply anxious. Regarding 
newsprint, nobody would be happier than if it were possible to ensure satisfaction to all 
the demands for additional quotas. However, hon. Members are well aware of our foreign 
exchange difficulties, and also the fact that neither the allocation of foreign exchange nor 
the import of newsprint lies within the purview of this Ministry. The newspaper industry 
itself can help in easing the situation by voluntary co-operation in two directions. 


Firstly, representative organisations of the industry can help to reduce, if not eliminate, 
misuse of newsprint. I do not know whether this is true or not, but Members themselves 
are aware that there is a wide belief, which has been expressed in this House and the other 
House also, 11 the existence of this malpractice. This kind of rumour going around vitiates 
the atmosphere. 


Secondly, the industry can help by voluntary adoption of the price page schedule which 
was based on the formula submitted by the industry itself. Such co-operation would 
considerably strengthen the case of the press. 


We are unhappy about the persistence of monopolies in the newspaper industry, and 
believe that this is harmful to the growth of a truly free and representative press. The 
Monopolies Commission is being asked to consider this matter and to advise us. 


Newspapers have become a big industry requiring enormous financial outlay even at 
the initial stages. This raises difficulties for the small and the regional newspapers. However, 
regional backwardness is also responsible for hampering the growth of such papers. The 
Ministry is doing what it can to help, and we are awaiting the report of the Diwakar 
Committee in August for further guidance in this matter. 


Regarding staff artistes, some steps have already been taken which should go a long 
way in alleviating their hardships. All new appointments after 1st October, 1964, are on a 
five-year basis; action is being taken to apply the same rule to those who were in service 
earlier. There are over 1,800 staff artistes, and it will take a little tme to execute the new 
contracts formally. All the allowances admissible to Government servants are being paid 
to them. 


The formation and recognition of the Staff Artistes Association was viewed 
sympathetically by my Ministry. However, according to a new order, we have to await the 
finalisation of rules by the Ministry of Home Affairs for the recognition of Service 
Associations. There are other associations such as the Class I Engineering Officers and 
the Association of Ministerial Staff of All India Radio which are in the same position. Many 
hon. Members pointed out, and we ourselves are fully aware of our dependence on the 
staff artistes, and we are grateful to them for the many years of loyal service which they 
have put in. 


We are also considering proposals for improving the scales of pay of the monitoring 
" service which some hon. Members mentioned. An hon. Member mentioned the discrepancy 
in the pay scales of Hindi and English typists and stenographers. I have found out on 
enquiry at the Ministry that there is no such discrimination. 


Specific quotas for members of the Scheduled Castes in various categories of staff are 
prescribed by Government and these are reflected in the staffing pattern of AIR’s regular 
services. Sometimes we are unable to find the right persons and in this case we keep the 
posts vacant. 


There was some criticism of our Publications Division. On checking our Publications 
Division, we found that there was a physical verification in 1961 and again in 1963-64. 
The percentage of shortage comes to less than half per cent which is considered rather 
low since the publishers make an allowance up to five per cent shortage for an edition. 
We found on checking that the Publications Division is in an extremely cramped position. 
I would very much like to invite hon. Members to go and see this for themselves, and if 
possible, to help us to obtain greater accommodation. 


ah ae ae i मे मैप कं मै 


I am not justifying it.* I have already said that we have had a physical verification 
and that the shortage is less than half percent. But it is true that efficiency suffers in all 
directions when you are so cramped for space, both working space and storage space. 


मैः गंध कै मं मं कै मे ak 


...An hon. Member from the South mentioned that Tamil and Telugu programmes are 
being announced in Hindi. This is not quite correct. All programmes are announced 1n the 
regional language of the relevant broadcast. The only exception is Vividh Bharati, which . 
is an All-India service and in which the items are very briefly introduced in simple Hindi. 
Shri Prakash Vir Shastri’s concern for Hindi is genuine and valid. While he can urge us to 
move faster in having more Hindi programmes, I think it is unfair of him to accuse us of 
not implementing Government’s policies in this regard. The Ministry is fortunate that 
besides other officials, it has a Secretary and a Joint Secretary who are both scholars and 
well-versed in Hindi and Sanskrit. 


Yesterday, we had the amusing spectacle of Congress Members accusing All India Radio 
of giving more time to the Opposition and the Opposition saying that it is being ignored 
by All India Radio. I think this in itself goes to prove that we are taking a balanced view. 


hh मे मैप मंद मे मै मर ae 


The House will probably remember that 11 1957, the AIR had offered the leaders of 
the Opposition parties to broadcast before the elections, and this offer was rejected by them. 
However, soon after my assuming charge of this Ministry, I issued orders that we should 


* Replying to Shri Hem Barua's remark, “That is no justification.” 


936 “ 


have debates and discussions on both controversial and other matters by people of differing 
viewpoints. I believe some such programmes have already taken place and others are being 
planned. Instructions were also issued—I am mentioning this because this point was also 
raised by hon. Members—that we should not publicise individual Ministers unless their 
statements were of national importance of real news value. 


There has been criticism both of the inadequacy of our internal stations and the 
weakness of our external services. In both these respects, the Ministry has perhaps not 
done as much as it should have or as much as we would like to do. But it is doing its best 
now to strengthen our internal and external programmes both by improving the programmes 
and by installing new stations and additional auxiliary centres as well as low-power 
medium-wave transmitters which will cover a number of cities all over the country. Some 
hon. Members mentioned Calicut and also Kutch. Calicut was already commissioned some 
time ago and should be put in soon. Kutch is included in the new programme. I am sure 
that hon. Members who have asked for other towns will realise that first importance must 
be given to the border areas. 


One hon. Member called the International Film Festival a fiasco and wondered why 
this was not cancelled as was the Music Festival. The reason is quite simple. The invitations 
were issued before I became Minister, and as this was an international event it was not 
possible to withdraw it. It is true that in the film festival there was some confusion. This 
was due partly to certain genuine mistakes on our part and partly to causes beyond our 
control. However, whatever else this film festival could be called, it can certainly not be 
called a fiasco. i do not have the time to go into the details here but the House will be 
interested to know that the Britisher who spoke here was not trying to be sarcastic. I have 
met him since and he has spoken to film audiences in England. Similar praise has been 
given by other distinguished people from the film world who have long experience of 
international film events. Not only have these people written to us, to the Ministry, and to 
me personally, but they have printed their comments in journals in their own countries. 
The latest one that I saw just a few days ago was a cutting from a Japanese periodical, 
recommending this type of festival to 15 own film industry. 


Shri Karan Singhji mentioned films on family planning. We have made eight films 
and one of these—it was a colour cartoon—was adjudged the best documentary in the 
Commonwealth Awards, 1964, recently held by the Royal Society of Arts, in London. Six 
more short films are under production. Those interested in the Films Division will be glad 
to know that we are trying to revitalise the whole division and are expecting an expert 
from UNESCO to help us in this. 


Shrimati Yashoda Reddy’s praise was rather embarrassing. 


Wi oe मर we a भर ae मर afc 


With regard to her suggestions that some films should be shown free to children, I 
must tell her that the showing of feature films in the States comes within the purview of 
the State Governments and we have no Say in this matter. I would like to assure the House 
that we are taking considerable measures to revitalise the whole Ministry and all our media 


937 


AY Pp diptnne’p 


units. I would like to tell them now something about our future programmes. For 
strengthening the external services, two high-power shortwave transmitters will be in service 
in Delhi early next year, and one, 1,000 kw medium-wave transmitter will be provided 
for night-time coverage to countries in North and South-East Asia. 


Here again, I think it was Shri Hem Barua who said that it is like a case where one 
who was going to marry a girl of 16, was offered two girls of eight years each or some 
such thing. 


ae ah ak ae af ak Lt. 


I would like to assure him that this suggestion that we shall have two transmitters of 
500 kw each was given by our own technical men because they thought that they would 
not only be equally powerful and effective as the other, but, at the same time, since the 
parts would be interchangeable, if one went out of order, the other one could be kept going, 
and so, it would be easier. 


के ae के मे ae मु ae कं a 


We left this to the experts and their advice was that we should ask for two 500 KW 
transmitters.* Those was have offered us the transmitters are willing to give us one or the 
other. They are not making any demands about this. 


We have decided to set up a Directorate of Farm and Home Broadcasting and a 
Directorate of Listener Research. Additional foreign exchange will be released, I may assure 
the House, for the manufacture of a large number of low-cost transistor sets. The possibility 
of charging a lower licence fee of Rs. 5 on low-cost radio and transistor sets is being 
investigated by the Finance Ministry. 35 per cent of new radio sets are now being 
manufactured by cottage industry here. The third plan target of 0.8 million sets is likely to 
be reached before long. 


With regard to the News Section, we have decided to set up six new regional News 
units. Our endeavour is to build up a news unit at each radio station. Bureaux of Information 
are being set up—one in the west for Himachal Pradesh and Punjab and one 1n the East 
for Assam, NEFA and Nagaland Border publicity is being strengthened by additional mobile 
field publicity and increased activity, including 7 training centres of our song and drama 
unit. Community Radio schemes should be extended to cities and bigger towns, especially 
to cover the poorer localities. In Delhi, we have found that the wire broadcasting service 
has been useful for the lower middle-class sector. 


It is only through radio that people living in isolated areas can come directly into 
contact with the more dynamic minds of the country and it is this idea which 1s prompting 
our interest in television also, that is, to make available the best teaching, especially in 


* Replying to the argument made by Shri Hem Barua that when we wanted a 1000 KW mediumwave transmitter, 
two 500 KW transmitters could not serve our original purpose of counteracting the Chinese propaganda in the 
regions where our voices were not heard. 


en 
avert ance’ ay 


wr te! 
ne 
eerste 
peepee 
an 


Peace हब कह 


हद 3 # 5 32 8 
31०1० ५,०३- 
बनाता, 
«71, १ - » 
४१० ० kee aes 
हु 1०77० ००५४५ 


weet मे 2५ 


७,००० ०. 
Me पक आओ कर 


those subjects which may require expensive equipment, to municipal and other average 
schools. 


As I said earlier, we hope to extend it also to farm programmes and family planning 
programmes. 


We should very much like to have the active participation of young people in our work 
and are planning special youth programmes to introduce young scientists, artists, writers, 
farmers and as Shrimati Ramdulari Sinha suggested, trade union workers. We believe that 
artists should be drawn from as wide a sector as possible, and that utmost encouragement 
should be given for free discussion. A more meaningful democracy can be built up through 
broadcast discussions on local issues by village leaders. Progressive farmers and other local 
personalities from throughout the district could provide effective stimulus to agricultural 
improvement. We are also exploring the possibility of a national system of district 
broadcasting. 


Hon. Members are aware that we have decided to expand the Delhi television to provide 
a daily service for about two hours. This 1s in addition to the services which are now in 
operation. For this, we have accepted the West German Government’s offer to set up a 
complete television studio and to give training facilities. The West German Government 
will also supply the necessary technicians until our own people are fully trained. There is 
a proposal now under consideration to set up four other centres—Bombay, Calcutta, Madras 
and one other city which will perhaps be Kanpur. 


We propose to reorganise and rationalise the pay scales and service conditions of the 
Central Information Service. It has been decided to upgrade certain senior posts to attract 
better and more efficient people. Hon. Members also evinced considerable interest in 
training facilities. They will be glad to know that by August 1965, we propose to start the 
work of the National Institute of Mass Communication with 70 trainees—one each from 
the States and Union territories and the rest from the Central Information Service. This 
Institute will ultimately find a place in the campus of the proposed Nehru University. 


It is unfortunately true that for many reasons—the 72119 of government rules and 
regulations and the higher pay given by private agencies—the government is not often 
able to attract or to keep the best talent. Our task is to attempt to bring this talent into play 
and to help it to enrich our media of communication. 


As government servants, our staff get more security than they would in private 
employment, but at the same time they are also exposed to far greater scrutiny and criticism. 


Distinguished and knowledgeable foreign visitors have been amazed at the quality and 
the amount of work achieved within our extremely limited resources of trained personnel, 
of equipment, of funds and accommodation. 


To the hon. Members of this House, I am especially grateful for the interest which 
they have always taken and the guidance they have always given to the different 
departments of my Ministry. But I should like to take this occasion to make a plea to them. 


939 


- In India, we expect too much too soon from any project. Criticism begins almost before 
the project is under way. If we are to get out of our grooves, and yesterday’s debate showed 
that this is what most hon. Members would like us to do, if we are to give our young 
people the chance to think original thoughts or to evolve new techniques, we must be 
prepared for them also to make honest mistakes and to show a certain amount of sympathy 
to them. Too often do we seize upon an error with such alacrity that initiative and talent 
are frightened out of existence. The progress of this country has been no mean achievement 
by any standards. This we could attain because we stood determinedly by our declared 
policy of socialist development at home and non-alignment abroad, in spite of persistent 
attempts by our opponents, ever since independence, to side-track us from our goals and 
to involve us with power groups inside or outside the country. While the Government has 
chartered the course, it is for the people themselves at their posts, officials and non-officials, 
peasants and workers, all citizens who have supported the Government and who have 
struggled, in the face of endless difficulties, to advance step by step. 


It is true that Government’s policies and actions and their projections give direction 
and create an image, of the country, but I should like to remind hon. Members that their 
utterances and their criticism also influence the thinking of our people and are apt to be 
quoted against our own country abroad. Let us, therefore, be careful that for the sake of 
scoring points or gaining some other advantage, we do not tarnish the image of India for 
our own people or for people abroad. I believe that if we can keep faith in the Indian people, 
if we can give them faith in themselves, we shall strengthen the country and renew our 
sense of national pride. 


Press Council Bill* 


Mr. Vice-Chairman, I want to make it clear that I am not replying to the debate. Since 
the hon. Deputy Minister is in charge of the Press in my Ministry, he will do so whatever 
he gets the chance, and I have no doubt that he will deal with all the amendments that 
have been tabled. However, I have got up now to direct the attention of the House to certain 
broad principles and objectives of this Bill, for unless we keep these in mind we may lose 
ourselves in a mass of details—as we have lost ourselves for a considerable ttme—which 
are of lesser significance. 


First of all, let us remember that by sponsoring this Bill, the Government of India 1s 
breaking fresh ground in a new field and in a manner which has not been done so far 
anywhere else in the world. Both in Parliament and outside, this matter has been viewed 
from two differing points of view. On one side, it is strongly felt that the Press Council 
should be essentially a measure of self-regulation not only for the profession of journalism 
but also on the pari of the newspaper industry. Considering the structure and the aims of 
our Indian democracy, and the character and composition of the Indian Press, hon. Members 
will agree that it is by no means easy to reconcile the interests and functions of the industry 
and the profession with our national objectives. On the other hand is the view that the 
Press Council should be constituted and used as an instrument for curing the industry as 
well as the profession of all inadequacies and weaknesses. In this context, it is expected 
that the Press Council should directly carry out many positive measures of reform, of 
improvement of and assistance to the industry and working journalists. There was even 
an amendment before the Joint Select Committee suggesting that the Press Council might 
deal with the question of newsprint. Now it is obvious that the Press Council cannot be 
expected to take up and deal efficiently with such a wide range of administrative and 
executive duties. The measure before the House has inevitably to have a limited purpose. 
The Bill is thus a compromise, a practical compromise, between the idea of self-regulation 
by the profession and the industry and a desirable minimum element of regulation by way 
of assistance of a statutory character without which the self-regulation may not be effective, 
as the Deputy Minister and others have pointed out by citing the Gunn case in England. 
Had the industry and the profession been able to exercise the necessary self-regulation, 
there would have been no need to bring in this Bill before Parliament. 


* Participating (as the Minister of Information and Broadcasting) in the debate on the Motion for the consideration 
of the Press Council Bill, 1963, R.S. Deb., 24 August, 1965, cc. 1160-64. 


ee te a 
wre! Te are en 


~~ 


I am glad to find that, on the whole, there is a large measure of agreement expressed 


‘by all sections of the House. Many hon. Members have tabléd amendments and we shall 


certainly look at them very carefully. Two similar bodies which have been mentioned here 
time and again are the Medical Council and the Bar Council. I am neither a lawyer nor a 
medical person but I have heard it said that the task of the lawyer is to get his client 
acquitted and to find loop-holes in the case against him, irrespective of whether the man 
is guilty or not, whcther he had committed the crime or not. Similarly a medical man, it is 
said, may pronounce an operation to be successful even if the patient dies afterwards. Now, 
being a lay person, I see things from a slightly different angle. I must confess that while 
fully believing in the freedom of the Press, I do also believe in the freedom of the individual, 
provided, of course, that he or she does not commit any anti-social or anti-national act. 


While the general level of our newspapers is quite high, we all know that there are 
exceptions, that there have been and still are cases where innocent persons are harmed, 
where passions are inflamed and a tense atmosphere aggrevated to the detriment of public 
interest. I should like to quote from a famous case which has been quoted in the Report of 
the Press Commission : 


“In Gitlow v. New York, 1925 S.C. 13, the Supreme Court had to pronounce— 


It is a fundamental principle long established that the freedom of speech and of the 
Press which is secured by the Constitution does not confer an absolute right to speak 
or publish without responsibility whatever one may choose, or an unrestricted and 
unbridled licence that gives immunity for every possible use of language, prevents the 
punishment of those who abuse this freedom. 


This has happened in our country time and again and that is the reason why the 
Government was so anxious to bring forward this Bill to the House and to have the proposed 
Press Council. Mr. Bhupesh Gupta has asked me to do many things which I think are 
beyond my power but not beyond the powers of the Press Council and the very reason for 
proposing that Council is that it would tackle some of the problems concerning the Press 
which are before the country. The Press suffers from many ills and monopoly ownership 
is certainly one of them and that is why if Mr. Bhupesh Gupta studies the 8111, he will see 
that this is one of the items brought within the purview of the Press Council. Mr. Gupta 
has been objecting to our helping big papers. Now, we have certain rules and regulations 
and we try to follow them to the best of our ability. Advertisements to the papers are given 
according to the circulation of the newspapers. Now, it does happen that the bigger 
newspapers have a bigger circulation and from that point of view they get more 
advertisements but may I point out, Sir, that Mr. Bhupesh Gupta himself is guilty of giving 
more publicity to the “Ananda Bazar Patrika” than I could ever do. I have hardly seen a 
day pass by when the name of this newspaper and its editor or the editor’s father has not 
been mentioned. 


He मं He कम के हुए he मे 


942 ३ 


Both big newspapers, I do agree with some of the points made by Mr. Bhupesh Gupta*. 
‘One of them is regarding the basic purpose, namely, that our newspapers should put 
important issues before the public and try to explain all aspects of the problem, so that 
people get a fuller view—both sides of the question of what is happening. However, this 
cannot be forced upon newspapers; it can come only by public demand and I hope Mr. 
Bhupesh Gupta will create this demand in the people, not by decrying other people but by 
trying to build up good news editors and others concerned. 


a 2c मर ie he 3c aK a ah 


As I said, I do not wish to go into the amendments as the Deputy Minister will deal 
with them at the end of the debate. The purpose of my getting up was merely to suggest 
that we should not forget the basic fact of the situation in India today and the necessity 
for agreement on the broad policy of the Bill which is essentially to meet that situation 
and at the same time to maintain the unique measure of freedom which the Press enjoys 
in our country. I feel that some of the amendments, if accepted, would prove restrictive of 
this freedom and I am afraid that if the Press Council were to be charged with tasks far 
beyond its competence and its natural functioning, we would be defeating the very purpose 
of the measure before us. It is certainly not our claim that this is a perfect measure. In the 
present context and at this stage of the legislation, it would be difficult to seek perfection. 
I would merely suggest to the House to allow the Press Council to be constituted and to 
let it function for sometime within the framework of the Bill as amended by us. There 
will be enough time to consider, in the light of future experience, how best to remove any 
inadequacy thai may be felt in the course of its working. Thank you. 


* Responding to Shri A.D. Mani’s remark, ‘The ‘Amrit Bazar Patrika’ also, both.” 


Newsprint Policy* 


Madam Deputy Chairman, | wish to express my thanks for the appreciation which the 
hon. Members have shown for this report. I am fully aware that the report is not perfect 
and that we have still to improve in many directions and specially in the two matters that 
seem to be of the deepest concer to the Members : one is control of concentration of 
ownership and the second is with regard to the amount of newsprint available. 


If we take the term “monopohes’”’ in its legal sense, we are told that monopolies do 
not exist in the newspaper industry. But I fully realise that we have to look at this matter 
from a much wider point of view. In fact I should like to quote Mr. Felix Frankfurter, a 
Judge of the Supreme Court of the United States—which is quoted in the Press Commission 
Report—when he remarks, ‘‘the fact that the shrinkage in the number of newspaper owners 
is not the product of evil design but largely attributable to economic and technological 
influences does not lessen the implications of the trend.” “Concentration of press 
ownership’, he says, “is a world-wide trend, which attests the complexity of the problem 
and the obduracy of its solution”. This matter was referred to the Monopolies Commission 
but they have refused to deal with it saying that it does not come within their purview. 
Now within the restrictions of the Constitution we are trying to do whatever we can and, 
as had been stated on the floor of the House on an earlier occasion, we hope that the 
proposed Press Council will be able to deal with this matter more successfully than we- 
have been able to do. 


Many questions have been raised by hon. Members. One was about the allotment of 
newsprint to some of these bigger newspapers. We have with considerable difficulty been 
trying at least to sec that they do not expand any further. It would of course have been 
better if we had curbed them more, but I think this by itself 1s a step in the nght direction. 
For instance, I am told that the Chittor Edition of the “Indian Express” was transferred 
partly to Madras and partly to Bangalore. We did not give any additional quota of newsprint 
for either of these editions. 


me ak ae ake मं ek ae 
So it seems.** We have no power to stop a person changing his place of business. 
me i eto he मे 


* Participating (as the Minister of Information and Broadcasting) in the discussion on the Motion regarding the 
Report of the Registrar of Newspapers for India, R.S. Deb., 17 November, 1965, cc. 1736-47. 


** Answering the Deputy Chairman’s query, “Can they do so’? 


They are obviously playing with newsprint.* About the same newspaper I am told that 
they failed to bring out eight more dailies in 1962 owing to our refusal to sanction extra 
newsprint. - 


ah a ah TT" nt 


Let us hope that the Press Council will be able to go into these matters in greater 
detail.** 


eK मर a ae ae Me oh 


We do not prosecute any paper for failure to supply copies to us, as one Member, Shri 
Arjun Arora, I think, mentioned. But we do not made a reduction in the entitlement of 
newsprint if the paper fails to satisfy us: with the information that is wanted in regard to 
its regularity of publication. Prosecution takes place only if the paper fails to supply the 
annual statement in regard to ownership, circulation, etc. This is a statutory obligation under 
the PRB Act. Even here, the papers are dealt with very leniently and after a show-cause 
notice is given. 


Another Member—I think Shri Bhargava, but I am not sure—made a point about 
Government journals being printed on newsprint. Now, it is only one journal in 15 
languages—which is a journal of the All India Radio; ‘Akash Vani’ it is called—which is 
printed in newsprint. All the rest of our publications are on white paper. Even in regard to 
these journals, we have now been told that newsprint will not be available, which will, of 
course, make it more expensive for their publication. 


Now, the other points made are mainly about the small newspaper. This matter has 
been under consideration for a fairly long time and the Mimustry is deeply concerned and 
wishes to do whatever it can to encourage the smaller newspapers, realising that these are 
the newspapers which will serve the common people and which should ultimately have 
the largest circulation. It is true that their circulation is not large at present and certainly 
we want to help any way we can. The House is aware that a Committee was formed of 
which Shri Mani is a distinguished member, and their Report has come in. But it is still 
being considered. And we shall certainly look into it in great detail and see what could be 
done because we realise that the small newspaper is not merely an industry, but it is essential 
to the effective functioning of our democracy. We also feel that it will help to encourage 
opinions and it can play a very useful part in forming public opinion in the rural areas 
especially, to which all of you have given so much importance. 


I would like just to say a few words about newsprint. I know that there is great criticism 
about newsprint but due to the foreign exchange shortage, I am afraid, we can not do very 
much about this except to try to cut out and have as fair a distribution as possible in the 


* Replying to Shri Arjun Arora’s observation, “You could check the bifurcation, one paper becoming two papers by 
shifting to two places”, and also Shri Gurudev Gupta’s observation “.......That shows that they have not only 
transferred the quota of their edition to the other edition but they have pooled from other sources....... 

** Responding to Shri Gurudev Gupta’s remarks, ‘Their attitude seems to be, let the Government of India do what 
they like. That is an open challenge.” 


circumstances. The import has to be kept strictly within the ceiling sanctioned every year 
and this year particularly the situation is very grave indeed. Newspaper with an annual 
‘ entitlement of 40 metric tonnes or less are exempted from the payment of licence fee, 
production of income-tax verification number. Those with a circulation of less than 2,000 
copies are also exempted from the production of Chartered Accountant’s Certificate in 
regard to their circulation. We were given a ceiling for the import of 99,450 metric tonnes 
of newsprint which is 2,000 metric tonnes more than the last year. Out of this, 41,000 
metric tonnes are to come from the rupee area the balance from Canada, Finland and the 
Scandinavian countries. About 15,000 metric tonnes are expected from the NEPA Mills. 
The Ministry of Industry has made available to us 31,000 metric tonnes including 5,000 
metric tonnes specially sanctioned to meet the increased demand of newspapers during 
the time of Pakistani aggression and I am glad to mention—and the House will appreciate— 
the very good work which the newspapers did during this period. 


Shri Gujral pointed out that at least nine of the newspapers had lost newsprint which 
has been ordered from various parts of the world and which has been kept back by Pakistan. 
Now, this seizure of newsprint is going to cause.considerable difficulty to the newspapers. 
And towards the beginning of the next financial year, I am afraid that unless steps are 
taken for the conservation of newsprint to the greatest extent possible, the situation will 
be an extremely difficult one. This indicates the need for some immediate voluntary cuts 
in the consumption by newspapers and periodicals. As the Minister mentioned at the time 
of the Press Council Bill, many of these things cannot be imposed by Government; it is a 
question of the Press people themselves getting together and seeing what is in their own 
larger interests and in the interests of the country. We are allotting additional quantities of 
white printing paper to fill in the gap. But, as you all know, this is very much more 
expensive than newsprint and therefore we try to give more newsprint to the smaller 
newspapers and allot the white printing paper to the larger newspapers. 


Some complaints have been made about the allotment of white printing paper and also 
about the delay or rather the complete absence of replies. I am sorry, but the person 
concerned in our Ministry says that applications for quota are often incomplete and 
unaccompanied by the necessary documents. This contributes to the delay in sanctioning 
the quotas. So, I hope, if you know of any cases where a reply has not gone, you would 
check up; and we will also look into them and see what can be done. 


With regard to the probe, as hon. Members have pointed out, this is again a difficult 
problem because of the lack of information which is willingly given. It is quite true, as 
Shn Bhargava said, that having only two teams is a disadvantage, and we should certainly 
do whatever we can to try and increase this number. And as the Deputy Minister points 
out to me during the recent circulation probe we have been able to save Rs. 12 lakh in 
foreign exchange by cutting down the quota of newsprint given to certain newspapers. 
But there is a need for further tightening up of this work and procedure. 


Much was said as to whether the word ‘monopoly’ should be used or the word 
‘concentration’ should be used. This morning a friend who belongs to the newspaper world 


ome 


2202९ 
tee 
0 

2 


has suggested a new word—I am not quite sure whether it exists in the dictionary—it is 
‘oligopoly’ which means a few people or a group having the same interests.... 


कं a ok me ac जंध ate ie oh 


It does not matter;* by whatever name you call it, we should not have that disease. 


Some hon. Members made points about advertisements and so on. This does not really 
come within the purview of the Registrar of Newspapers, it is quite another Department 
of the Ministry. 


me मंद aK He a a He मं 


Also, we have really nothing to do with the DIR, which hon. Members appreciate. While 
I am fully in favour of granting freedom of expression, I think that everybody should 
appreciate that in times of war or national emergency; one should not try to create a point 
of view which might create confusion in the public mind or which would weaken the unity 
of the people about which the hon. Member was speaking, I am told that certain newspapers 
adopted a line which created disturbance in the public. I know that I myself have received 
many letters from the South complaining about some of the view points expressed in these 
newspapers. 


One very good point made by Mr. Thengari is about the encouragement of co-operatives 
and trusts of newspapers. Members will perhaps remember that this form of ownership 
was suggested by the Press Commission also, and certainly the Ministry will encourage 
this. I think this is the best way of avoiding concentration because it is extremely difficult 
in the present circumstances for an individual to bring out a successful paper because such 
large funds are required. The same applies to party newspapers. 


Somebody made a comment about the large number of Congress Party newspapers. 
They mostly suffer from lack of funds and lack of organisation which today the newspaper 
industry seems to find necessary. 


The percentage of the form of ownership by individuals is 57.3 and of societies and 
associations 20.2. 


मंच मं मेरे me मर और मु मं: मर 


There are certain rules with regard to advertisements and the Government have been 
following those rules**. It may be that those rules are not satisfactory and we need to go 
into them again. I mentioned earlier that the Diwakar Enquiry Committee went into the 
question of small newspapers. A report has come. But we have not yet had time to fully 
study it. It is under consideration of the Government. As soon as we go into it, I think we 
will have better answers to some of these questions that have been asked with regard to 
small newspapers. It would not be fair on my part to mention it now. 


* Responding to Shri A.D. Mani’s remark, “Heavy concentration is better.” 
** Shri M.M. Dharia wanted to know the views of the Minister regarding Government advertisements which could be 
given to small newspapers. 


With regard to the quota of the Indian Express group, it is roughly between 800 and 
_ 1,000 tonnes. But the matter is still sub judice. 


ae ah ah ae ae a म॑ः मंध के 


Unfortunately, the white printing paper is also not available in unlimited quantities.* 
As far as any kind of paper is concerned, we are in a difficult situation. 


With regard to the price-page schedule I have expressed my views on the floor of this 
House on an earlier occasion. 


As you know, this was struck down by the Supreme Court, I believe, the Diwakar 
Committee has suggested this again. I would make a suggestion. It was struck down on 
the ground that it was introduced by the Government. But if it is taken up as a voluntary 
measure or on the advice of the Press Council, perhaps it would be possible for this to go 
thorough. But many of the bigger newspapers are very much against it as I am sure Mr. 
Mani is aware. ह 


I के HK कै hm 


Actually the newspapers have themselves supported the move during the last war. But 
for some reason afterwards they went back on this. However, as I said, I hope these matters 
can be taken up by the Press Council when it is formed. 


KH wm अं गुर ae और कर 


The difficulty is the question of fundamental rights.** As I said earlier, it was the 
Supreme Court which struck down this introduction of the price-page schedule by the 
Government. Now in these changed circumstances, we can perhaps approach all the 
newspapers and try to persuade them. But as we. have seen in many other directions, 
persuasion has not got us far. In this matter I think it is best to leave it to the Press Council 
and if they can get something done, probably it can come again in some form to the House. 
(Interruptions) 


मु मै: के KH mh मु 


Madam Deputy Chairman, I have really met all the points which hon. Members have 
raised except one point which, again, was a little irrelevant to the issue here. It was about 
my remarks regarding foreign correspondents. As usual, I was not quoted quite correctly 
in the newspapers. I did not absolve every foreign correspondent from this. But I did say 
that it was not fair to blame every one either. Some have tried to send objective reports, 
some have not. Also it was a question of taking action against them. 1 said that this matter 


* Replying to Shri Gurudev Gupta who wanted to know the opinion of the Minister on the proposal that the big 
papers whose circulation was so to say, above 50,000 copies and whose annual profits ran into lakhs be asked to 
use cent per cent white printing paper instead of newsprint in order to save foreign exchange. 

** Replying to Shri Gurudev Gupta who wanted to know why the newspaper owners were not ready to cooperate 
with the Government in accepting the price-page schedule : and what was the difficulty in bringing forward a Bill. 


had to be watched and considered now from the long-term interest of the country. Does it 
help us to throw somebody out ? Will that give us better propaganda coverage in his country, 
or will it not ? We have to look at it from a much wider point of view. This was the remark 
which I had made. Naturally individual cases are taken up and if somebody’s behaviour is 
considered objectionable enough for him to be sent out of the country or penalised in any 
other manner, certainly that matter should be looked into. 


I think I have made most of the points made by hon. Members, I can see somebody 
getting very impatient also. So I will close now. I once again thank Members for the interest 
which they have taken in this matter and indeed in matters concerned with the Ministry. I 
want also to assure them that the suggestions which they have given or are likely to give 
in the future will always be welcomed and given the coolest consideration. 


Thank you. 


949 


11 


PERSONALITIES 


Felicitations to Shri N. Sanjiva Reddy“ 


Sir, we are the proud members of one of the leading Parliaments of the world. The 
Speaker is the custodian of the dignity and power of this august House. Not only does the 
Speaker regulate the business of this Lok Sabha but he must safeguard the rights of each 
individual Member since the Member themselves derive their mandate from the people 
through free and open elections, the Speaker is in effect the conscience of the electorate. 
That is why he ranks with the Chief Justice in the dignity accorded to him in our country. 


The Speaker must at all time be alert and sensitive to the rights of M.Ps. All matters 
which are of national interest, or are deemed to be so, must naturally be allowed. But I 
am sure that the Speaker will use his firm and fair control to keep up the dignity and 
decorum of the House.... 


ai she oft aie और oe ae अंध ae 


Naturally,** Sir according to the rules and regulations, provided under our Constitution 
at the same time, I think it is necessary to persuade hon. Members from all sides of the 
House to avoid passion and prejudice. We, the Members of this House on our part, must 
help you, Sir, by exercising on ourselves restraint and responsibility. 


Sir, you have been closely connected with our party but the party fully appreciates the 
role of the Speaker and realises that the Speaker must not be a political person... 


ae ak भर मंध् मंध् मं aK ak भर 


...and that he must sever his political connections. Contest for the Speakership is not 
unusual or abnormal, but once chosen, the Speaker belongs to all sections of the House. 
His office makes him so. He must naturally win the confidence all parties and Members 
by his impartiality, and fairness in his decisions and rulings. An equal responsibility 
devolves on the rest of us to help in defending the rights of the chair and in upholding the 
highest standards of conduct in this House. 


On behalf of this House, may I felicitate you, Sir, and offer you our full support in the 
discharge of the onerous duties and burdens which you have taken upon yourself? 


* Relicitating Shri N. Sanjiva Reddy on his election to the Office of Speaker, Lok Sabha, L.S. Deb., 17 March, 1967, 
cc. 54-55. 
** Responding to Dr. Rammanohar Lohia’s remark, “You always talk high but have you ever thought of justice?” 


Felicitations to Shri V.V. Giri* 


Mr. Chairman, Sir, may I, on behalf of all of us extend a hearty welcome to you? In 
your case, Sir, it is really a question of welcoming you back to the precincts of Parliament. 
You are not stranger to this building, having had a long and distinguished career, a 
Parliamentary career, yourself. With your nich and varied background as one of our leading 
freedom fighters, a veteran labour leader, a Minister, a Governor and an elder statesman 
in the post Independence years, you will no doubt bring to bear on your high and exalted 
office the valuable experience of a long and dedicated political career. We look forward 
to your wise guidance in the conduct of the deliberations of this House. 


I should like to take this opportunity, on behalf of the government, to assure you, Sir, 
that you will at all times have our fullest support and co-operation in your task and of 
upholding the dignity of this august House, its privileges and the privileges of each of the 
hon. Members here. 


Once again, I welcome you most heartily. 


* Felicitating Shri V.V. Giri on his election as Chairman, Rajya Sabha, R.S. Deb., 22 May, 1967. cc. 107-08. 


Felicitations to Shri G.S. Dhillon* 


Mr. Speaker, Sir, May I welcome you to your august office not only on my own behalf 
and on behalf of the Government and the Party, but also, if I may, on behalf of all sections 
of this House. 


Sir, it is a happy augury that your election to this high office should have been 
unanimous, and thus met with the approval of all sections of this House. I say so because 
the Speaker, at least from the moment of his election, belongs to the entire House and sits 
above all Parties and above all differences. 


To this distinguished Chair you bring long years of valuable experience as Presiding 
Officer. But you also bring to it the rich past of a varied public life as a political worker, 
as a social worker, as a journalist and, last but not least, as a keen sportsman. I hope that 
under your stewardship the House will imbibe the spirit which is normally expected in 
the sphere of sports that is, regard for the rules of the game, the conduct of every debate 
and every contest in a friendly and sportsmanlike spirit and, at all times and under all 
circumstances, unquestioned acceptance of any ruling or decision that you might be pleased 
to give from the Chair as the umpire. 


Sir , the House of Parliament are indeed meant for free and even for fierce debate on 
every important issue facing the country. And occasionally, a touch of heat and passion 
will inevitably be injected into such debate. But I am sure my colleagues on all sides of 
the House will agree that there is need for us to join hands and make a determined and 
collective effort to preserve and foster the decorum and dignity of this house. The primary 
burden of this will devolve on you, Sir; but let us all on this occasion pledge to be solidly 
behind you in this task. 


I have no doubt that the rights of all sides of the House and every hon. Member will 
be secure in your hands. 


I extend our hearty felicitations to you and also our assurance that you shall at all times 
have our fullest co-operation in the discharge of the difficult duties upon which you are 


about to embark. 


ae a ak ae i ac eae ak 


* Felicitating Shri G.S. Dhillon on his election to the Office of Speaker, Lok Sabha, LS. Deb., 8 August, 1969, 
cc, 210-11. 


955 


*It is a privilege, as Leader of the House, to offer felicitations to the Speaker, Shri 
Dhillon. 


i am sure that every fellow-Member of the new Lok Sabha, irrespective of party 
affiliation, will join me in assuring Shri Dhillon of the fullest co-operation in maintaining 
the honour and high traditions of the House. 


In electing Shri Dhillon, we are not merely following the convention that the Speaker 
should be re-elected. We are expressing our regard for a person of great conscientiousness 
and courtesy. 


The last two years in the House could hardly be called placid. There were storms, big 
and small, difficult constitutional issues, battles of procedure, some points of order 
threatening disorder. Shri Dhillon steered the House ably through all these troubles, always 
upholding the basic principles of parliamentary conduct, never losing the affability and 
candour, which are characteristic of him. 


Students of constitutional history are aware that in the long conflict between Parliament 
and monarch, the Speaker was the spokesman of the citizenry. When the supremacy of 
Parliament was established, he became the symbol and respository of self-restraint, which 
is the basis of self-government. So, when we obey the Speaker, we are obeying a part of 
our own conscience. 


In our own national life, the Speaker has been accorded an eminent position. By his 
temperament and personal qualities, Shri Dhillon is worthy of his office. 


Mr. Speaker, I offer you greetings and good wishes. We know that your Chair is not 
one of roses. It will be the endeavour of this House not to make it one of thorns. 


* Felicitating Shri 0.5. Dhillon on his re-election to the Office of Speaker, Lok Sabha, L.S. Deb., 22 
March, 1971, cc. 4-5. 


Foote 


Felicitations to Prof. G.G. Swell* 


May I, on behalf of this august House and on my personal behalf, offer our sincere 
congratulations to Prof. Swell on his election to the office of Deputy Speaker, which is 
next in importance, in this House, only to your own high office. 


Prof. Swell is not a stranger to us or to this House. He has been a distinguished Member 
since 1962 and many hon. Members will agree that he is amongst those effective 
Parliamentarians who made their mark almost from the beginning of their association with 
Parliament. 


Prof. Swell is also amongst those for whom politics has not been the only field of 
interest, certainly not an obsession. His reputation as a professor and a man of letters is 
well known. 


If I may say so Sir, in spite of his relatively youthful 45 years he carries a wise head 
om his shoulders. We value his gentleness, sobriety and the larger vision which he brings 
to bear on his observations here in this House. We are confident that Prof. Swell will bring 
dignity to the Chair which he will occupy and that he will conduct the not so easy 


proceedings of this House with fairness and absolute impartiality as well as the requisite _ 


degree of firmness. 


We have elected Prof. Swell as an able Indian, but we do take special satisfaction from 
the fortunate circumstance that he is also an illustrious member of the tribal communities 
which are important and valuable constituents of the great Indian people. 


We should like to congratulate him again, and to extend to him an assurance of our 
full co-operation and also our best wishes for success in the arduous duties upon which 
he is about to embark. 


mK fe ac me ae मर मे मं a 


**Mr. Speaker, may | in a very few words offer our hearty congratulations to Professor 
Swell on his re-election as Deputy Speaker. We are specially glad that we find him restored 
to full health after a long illness and able to take up his normal schedule of work which , 


* Congratulating Prof. 0.0. Swell on his election to the Office of Deputy Speaker, Lok Sabha, L.S. Deb, 9 December, 
1969, cc. 212-13. 
** Congratulating Pof. G.G. Swell on his re-election to the Office of Deputy Speaker, Lok Sabha, LS. Deb., 
27 March, 1971, ८.4. 


957 


as you all know, is by no means a light load. A fine parliamentarian himself, he has made 
a mark as Deputy—Speaker in a comparatively short time through his earnestness, devotion 

* and deep concern for upholding the privileges and responsibilities of individual members. 
as well as of the House as a whole. He has proved to be a fine guardian of the parliamentary 
process and has been able to inspire wide-spread feeling of friendship and respect in the 
House. I assure him of the fullest co-operation from all Members of this House. 


Felicitations to Dr. G.S. Dhillon and Shri S. L. Shakdher* 


Sir, before you proceed with the business of the House, I have another pleasant task to 
perform—one which has been entrusted to me by the entire House, all parties. It is to warmly 
congratulate our Speaker, Dr. Dhillon on his election as President of the World Inter— 
Parliamentary Union. The Inter—Parliamentary Union is an International Partiamentary 
Organisation whose aim 1s to promote personal contacts between Members of all 
Parliaments and to unite them in common action to secure and maintain the full participation 
of their respective countries in the firm establishment and development of representative 
institutions and in the advancement of the work of international peace and cooperation. 
The honour is a richly deserved one. It is in recognition of Dr. Dhillon’s personal qualities 
and of his hard and conscientious work for the Council. Dr. Dhillon has guided the 
deliberations of this House with dignity and good honour. We are conscious of the honour 
to our country and to this Parliament. 


I should also like to take this opportunity to warmly congratulate Shri. S.L. Shakdher 
on his unanimous election as President of the Association of Secretaries— General of the 
Parliaments of the world for a three-year term. The objective of the Association is to carry 
out studies concerning parliamentary law, practice and procedure and to propose measures 
for improving the methods of work of the various Parliaments of the world and for ensuring 
collaboration between their services. Shn Shakdher’s election is a tribute to India and to 
the work which he has been doing for the Association over the last two decades. All of us 
here are aware of his knowledge and his deep interest in parliamentary procedures, on 
which he is a recognised authority. 


* Congratulating Dr. G.S. Dhillon, Speaker, Lok Sabha on his election as the President of the I.P.U., and Shri S.L. 
Shakdher, Secretary, Lok Sabha on his election as President of the A.S.G.P,, LS. Deb., 12 November, 1973, 


cc. 15-16. 


959 


Soya! 2८ wi 
RS 


23442 tenes 
ee 20022 57722 BSS . 
7922४ See 2 
PERE 


& 
ee Narre 


Pal 
41 

Rests 
Oy 
१८, 
ae 
me 
= 
27722 
wer 
at 
2:72 
Spo 
Sty 
pa 
22:22 
a), 
Be ne "9 
25252 
रा 

oe 

ba Ne 

BS 

we ‘at 


Felicitations to Shri B.R. Bhagat* 


As the Leader of the House, I warmly congratulate Shri B.R. Bhagat on his elevation 
to this high office. 


Shri Bhagat has spent most of his adult life in the service of the people. He has 
distinguished himself as a parliamentarian and as a Minister who has held charge of a large 
range of Departments. He has earned respect for his straight forwardness, his capacity, his 
grasp of principles and details. His amiability and tact have won, a wide circle of friends. 
His talents have been वा evidence in intemational forums also. 


The Lok Sabha is twenty-five years old. But it is only after the first General Elections 
under the Constitution that it became the repository of the expressed democratic will of 
our people. The Lok Sabha inherits the legacy of the Central Legislative Assembly and 
the Provisional Parliament both of which counted amongst its Members some of the most 
eminent personages in our recent history. 


The Speaker is the custodian of these noble traditions. His foremost task is to upho!d 
the dignity of the House and in doing so, defend the Independence, and inviolable unity 
of the nation itself. It is an axiom to say that the Speaker should be fair and impartial to 


all sections of the House. Is it not also necessary that all sections of the House should 


help him to be so ? 


Parliament’s supremacy is the reflection of the people’s sovereignty. This sovereignty 
is not an abstract concept. As a living institution, Parliament should mirror the evolving 
aspirations of the people and find solutions to various old and newly emerging problems. 
It has been our constant endeavour to preserve Parliament’s authority and to enlarge its 
Capacity to deal with problems. 


I am constrained to say that some sections of the House have abused the protection 
offered by legislative privileges and, as a result, have weakened Parliament. Strength grows 
through self-restraint. Men and institution decay if they neglect their responsibilities and 
think only of rights. This morning, one of our MPs showed me a quotation from Gandhiji 
who said to Mr. H.G. Wells, “You should begin with duties and the nghts will follow as 
the rainy season follows the summer.” Unfortunately, in many walks of our national life, 
the responsibility has been pushed to the background. Even in Parliament, we have allowed 
our own rules to be slackened in an effort to buy peace with obstreperous elements. 


* Congratulating Shri B.R. Bhagat on his election to the Office of Speaker, Lok Sabha., L.S. Deb., 5 January, 1976, 
cc. 37-38. 


In the last six months, a national effort has been made to regain discipline and self- 
restraint. It should be the endeavour of all sections and parties in this House to improve 
the functions of Parliament so that it is able to devote greater attention to the basic problems 
of our people and our country. In this task, a great burden will rest on the shoulders of the 
Speaker. I hope that each one of us in the House will try not to add to the burden but 
Strive in every way to lighten it. 


I should like to take this opportunity to express our appreciation to Dr. G.S. Dhillon 
for his services to the House, for the good humour with which he bore the strain and stress 
and for the consideration and fair-play he showed to all sections of the House. 


Once again, on behalf of the House and on my own behalf I offer good wishes to the 
new Speaker and assure him of our fullest cooperation. 


961 


a ०7 


७४.७५ 


Felicitations to Shri Bal Ram Jakhar* 


Mr. Speaker, Sir, 1 congratulate you on your assumption of the high office of Speaker. 
May I also take this opportunity of extending my congratulations to all hon. Members of 
the House on their elections ? 


Sir, traditionally today 15 the first day of spring, a day of new beginnings, a day devoted 
to learning and to culture. It is a comcidence that your election, Mr. Speaker, has taken 
place today. But that does not detract from the day or the event; rather it gives it added 
significance. 

India is known for its adherence to the ancient. Yet, it is ever ready to meet new 


situations and new challenges. In a fast-changing world, the need is for a fresh outlook, 
not just periodical or occasional but constant and continuing. 


You, Sir, are a son of the soil with personal experience of the difficulties of the largest 
section of our people, one on which we are all dependent for our survival. The Indian farmer 
is known not only for his sound common sense and practical approach but also for his 
devotion to our land. You have also wide knowledge of men and matters and are known 
for your culture and your courtesy. The present task is new to you just as membership of 
this august House is new to many of us. 


I am sure you will soon find your way amongst the maze of rules and regulations and 
conventions and give fair and impartial treatment to all sections of the House. But let us 
not lose sight of two facts, one, that the rules are there not for themselves but to facilitate 
the functioning of the House; and secondly, that the purpose of this House is not merely 
to have discussions and debates, or indulge in verbal battles but to serve the people by 
attempting sincerely to find solutions for their multifarious and pressing problems. 


The Speaker is the custodian of the noble traditions of the House. It is his task to uphold 
the dignity of this august House. Although my Party has the great privilege of enjoying a 
large majority, we expect no favours. We realise the importance of the Opposition. The 
Opposition must have its due. But I do hope that this does not mean obstructing the 
Government from discharging its onerous duties. We are here to do a job which has no 
parallel in size or complexity anywhere in the wide world. We seek the cooperation of all. 


Once again, on behalf of the House and on my own behalf, I offer good wishes to the 
Speaker and assure him of our fullest cooperation. 


* Congratulating Shri Bal Ram Jakhar on his election to the Office of Speaker, Lok Sabha, L.S. Deb., 22 January, 
1980, cc. 4-5. 


962 ‘ 


Felicitations to Shri M. Hidayatullah* 


Mr. Chairman, Sir, I offer my sincere congratulations to you on behalf of the Members 
of this House and on my own behalf. A wise provision in our Constitution requires the 
Vice-President to be the Chairman of the Rajya Sabha. It is our good fortune to have had 
men of the highest character and standing as our Vice-Presidents—scholars with vast 
experience in different spheres of national activity. You Sir, are a jurist of great distinction 
and have held the highest judicial office in our country. To you, law is not merely a set of 
decrees to be enforced and obeyed, but the articulate conscience of our nation. It is well 
known that your concern was to ensure that laws fully reflect the imperatives of human 
justice no less than the eternal varieties of truth and freedom. Your pronouncements from 
the Bench have taken note of the aspirations of our people. We can be sure that your rulings 
from the Chair in this august House will be imbued with unswerving devotion to principles 
and proprieties. The two Houses of our Parliament are like two halves of the country’s 
legislative heart. Members may be elected to the two Houses in different ways but in 
dedication to national welfare and the desire to redress the common people’s difficulties, 
neither House would yield to the other. The Council of States is perennial while the House 
of the People is subject to dissolution and re-election. Thus, between them, the two Houses 
give us the advantages of continuity and change. We are indeed privileged to have a person 
of your eminence, experience and social vision as our Presiding Officer. I assure you of 
our fullest co-operation. 


* Congratulating Shri M. Hidayatullah on his assumption of the Office of Chairman, Rajya Sabha, 
R.S. Deb., 24 January, 1980, cc. 3-4. 


Felicitations to Shri G. Lakshmanan* 


May I take this opportunity of congratulating Shri G. Lakshmanan on his election as 
Deputy Speaker. 


Shri G. Lakshmanan has wide experience of public life and also he has been a Member ae 
of the other House and this should stand him in good stead in safeguarding the rights and 
privileges of all sides of the House, of individual Members as well as in upholding the = . 
dignity and decorum of this august House. I extend a warm welcome to him and I give ioe 
him our good wishes and assure him of our co-operation. 


* Congratulating Shri G. Lakshmanan on his election to the Office of Deputy Speaker, Lok Sabha, LS. Deb., 
1 February, 1980, c. 174. 


Farewell to Dr. Zakir Husain* 


Mr. Chairman, Sir, we are assembled here today for the last day of this session of the 
Rajya Sabha. It is not an ordinary ending. Members will reassemble in May. But we shall 
miss the familiar and respected face of our distinguished Chairman. I have been privileged 
to be a Member of this House for some time and although I am no longer a Member, I 
fully share the personal sense of parliamentary loss which, I know, hon. Members from 
both sides feel. 


Sir, you have guided the deliberations of this august House for five years with great 
dignity, tact, impartiality, patience and understanding. When we have sometimes gone 
astray, you have gently brought us back to the fold. It is your manner and bearing as much 
as your rulings which have gained you our affection and our esteem. Even though you 
will not be here in this House, the traditions which you have laid down for the House will 
be cherished, remembered and followed. 


I know I express the sentiments of hon. Members from all sections of the House, Sir, 
in offering you our grateful thanks, we wish you well in whatever the future brings to 
you. The lamp of scholarship and goodness 18 never extinguished, and I am sure that you 
will light the way for us wherever you may be and in whatever you may do. 


2 He ak ek कं ae ak ok 


**Mr Speaker, Sir, I rise to speak with a heavy heart. The country has suffered a 
grievous loss, and the world has lost a man of vision and compassion. Dr. Zakir Husain 
was a wise guide to our people. He reflected the best in the heritage of civilised man. He 
was an unusual amalgam of steadfastness and gentleness, representing the finest flowering 
of the composite culture of our country. 


It is rare to find so integrated a personality as Dr. Zakir Husain’s. His life was rich 
and varied. Every visit to him, every conversation with him was an enriching experience, 
and I think, Sir, that that was the feeling of most people who met him. He was a learned 
scholar, a thinker and a writer of distinction. Interested in people and nature, he was a 
connoisseur of creative arts and had a deep and abiding interest in the finer things of life. 
With his wealth of knowledge and experience, he had a disarming simplicity. Although he 
rose to the highest positions in the land, he retained the humility of true greatness and 


* Farewell to the Chairman, Rajya Sabha, R.S. Deb., 11 April, 1967, cc. 3248-49. 
** Paying homage to Dr. Zakir Husain on his demise, L.S. Deb., 5 May, 1969, cc. 1-3. 


was proud to describe himself as a mere teacher. He was so little attracted to pomp and 

~ power that the high offices which he held had to be thrust upon him. He set the highest ee 
standards of conduct for himself, and every act and gesture of his was living proof of this 
high integrity, ennobling all around him. To the end of his days, he remained an elder 
statesman whose soft words of wisdom were heard in defence of all that is of enduring 
value in public life. 


Many influences moulded his personality, the teaching of Islam and other great religions 
of our country and the world, the inspiration of Mahatma Gandhi and other great seekers 
of freedom and fight the liberal and humane philosophies of the West and the writings of 
the great poets and authors of all lands. He had an inquiring mind, not an accepting one. 
But he was free from dogma or narrowness of any kind and bent his fastidious intellect to 
a search for harmony and in the interests of a larger purpose. 


It is two years since the nation elected him to this high office. I recall the controversy 
which was generated at that tme. But I am sure that to-day every one in the country, without 
distinction of party, region or religion, would agree that Dr. Zakir Husain adorned the office 
of President with dignity, distinction and unblemished integrity. We did not elect him 
because he was a Muslim by birth and faith. We elected him because he was the most 
eminent Indian we could think of to be the first citizen of our Republic. And in the manner 
in which he conducted himself as President and earlier as Vice-President and Chairman of 
Rajya Sabha, he vindicated India’s basic commitment to democracy and secularism. 


As President and representative of India, he made a deep impression on the statesmen 
and people of other countries, and earned greater esteem and friendship for India. 


This evening we shall lay to rest a great Indian, who belongs to the long line of sages 
and wise rulers of our ancient land. It is fitting that he should be laid to rest in an important 
centre of learning which he himself had built through his dedication and where practically 
every brick, book and tree he had chosen. He will be one with the soil, the flowers and 
the plants of the land he loved so much. Dr. Zakir Husain was a man who wanted our 
country to become a garden and a school. His gracious presence is no more but his gentle 
words of deep conviction and his example of dedication, compassion and tolerance will 
remain in our memory and become part of our conscience. 


Mr. Speaker, as the Head of the Government I naturally mourn the death of the 
President. In the many difficult crises through which the country has passed during his 
brief tenure, he was a source of strength to my Government. But I remember him from 
the olden days of our freedom struggle. I remember also his long-standing comradeship 
with my father and other eminent leaders. This was a partnership which bound together 
all classes and castes, the old and the young in a common-—cause, the unity, the freedom 
and the welfare of our people. 


In paying homage to Dr. Zakir Husain, let us rededicate ourselves to our cherished 
values and to our unfinished tasks. 


May I, Sir, on behalf of the Government and also on behalf of the whole House, request 
you to be good enough to convey to Dr. Zakir Husain’s family our sincerest condolences 
as also the assurance that we share their sorrow ? 


May I move a Resolution at this stage ? Sir, I beg to move : 


That the Lok Sabha, assembled under the shadow of a national tragedy, expresses its 
profound sense of sorrow at the sudden death of the President of India, Dr. Zakir Husain, 
and pledges itself to promote the high ideals of patriotism, national unity, secularism 
and the service of humanity which he upheld. 


Ne है५ 
Pine ta 


Farewell to Smt. Violet Alva and Shri Jaisukhial Hathi* 


Mr. Chairman, Sir, I was glad to hear that yesterday the House decided to felicitate 
the Ex-leader of the House, Shri Hathi, and the Deputy Chairman, Mrs. Violet Alva. So, I 
should like to take this opportunity to express my sincere appreciation and admiration for 
the manner in which Mrs. Alva functioned as the Deputy Chairman of this House under 
conditions which were difficult and full of tension and strain. She brought to bear upon 
the Chair a serious study of the Rules of Procedure and throughout the proceedings she 
remained firm and impartial and upheld the highest traditions of this august House. She 
was able to get through with the business of the House in good time. She jealously guarded 
the privileges of each Member and of the House as a whole.... 


ae 2 ak मै अंध् मे ae he ak 


always trying to give maximum Satisfaction and protection to each Member, She won 
the good will of the entire House. We regret that she has resigned as the Deputy Chairman 
but wherever she is and whatever task she undertakes she will be accompanied by our 
very best wishes. 


We are also sorry that Shri Hathi no longer occupies his accustomed seat. We are all , 
aware how he stood up in moments of crisis, never ruffled even when tempers were high, 
always cool in the midst of the heat which was generated in debate origin controversy. 
He always remained balanced in attitude. By training he is a lawyer and by practice a 
devoted public worker. He won the approbation of this House, always trying to 
accommodate as many points of view as possible. We give him also our best wishes. 


* Paying tributes to the Ex-Deputy Chairman of Rajya Sabha, Smt. Violet Alva and the Ex-leader of the Rajya 
Sabha, Shri Jaisukhlal Hathi, R.S. Deb., 18 November, 1969, cc. 314-15. 


Farewell to Retiring Members* 


Mr. Chairman, Sir, parting is always a matter of sorrow. Our friends who have spoken 
have been eloquent in recalling the events of past years, remembering the sacrifices and 
services, highlighting the spirit of comradeship and cooperation, of standing together in 
times good and bad. I have been—and | am sure all hon. Members who have listened have 
been—greatly moved by the sentiments expressed. Many of the hon. Members who are 
leaving the House have added to the dignity of the House and the quality of its debates. 
This is not an occasion for discussion although my senior friend, Shri T.N. Singh, has raised 
various points about planning and other matters. I should like to point out that we do not 
write on a Clean slate. Whatever we do today has to be based, whether we like it or not, 
on what has gone before, on the situation which exists in our country, on the circumstances 
which surround us and outside and what is taking place in other countries. Not only the 
population problem, but other problems also will remain with us for many years to come. 
I do not think any of us have any illusions that these problems can be removed as if by 
magic. 


Shri Singh has also mentioned something about what foreigners say. The question arises: 
Which foreigners ? The question also arises : What have these particular people said on 
other occasions ? Not only about democracy. They have questioned our fight for freedom, 
they have questioned our ability to remain independent, they have questioned our capacity 
to plan, they have questioned our ability to be democratic and they have questioned even 
our survival. I have seen headlines several inches high in Western newspapers and 
magazines : “Can India Survive ?7 We are used to such propaganda and we take it in our 
stride. We should not be unduly agitated or angry or upset. When people say anything 
pertinent to our conditions and what can be helpful to us, we certainly take note of it. 


Freedom of expression or other freedoms are not threatened. There are certain curbs. 
Those who say that democracy is not suitable know neither democracy nor do they know 
India. If democracy is not exactly as it was before, this 1s because it was being misused. 
The main question which 1 have put many times ॥ this House and outside, is : Democracy 
for whom? Justice for whom? Freedom of expression for whom ? Sometimes we are 
confused in our minds. We think that the freedom of a few journalists is more important 
than the freedom of the vast majority of Indians to go ahead. Are these two incompatible? 
A particular atmosphere developed and I hold myself guilty of allowing it to develop as it 
did. Had we taken steps in good time, the situation would not have deteriorated as it did. 


* Giving farewell to Members, R.S. Deb., 1 April, 1976, cc. 128-31. 


But now and always we must consider first the good of the Indian people. I was happy to 
-hear my friend opposite speak about the unity of India, because that is the first essential. 
And that unity had been threatened. 


Several quotations have been cited, I also should like to quote a few words from 
Mahatma Gandhi. They are from Tendulkar’s Mahatma, Vol. VIII. When a group of 
socialists full of vituperation against the Congress High Command for the situation at that 
time which was mainly regarding the partition, went to see Mahatma Gandhi, he said and 
I quote: 


Note down these words of an old man past the age of three scores and ten. In the times 
to come, people will not judge us by the creed we profess or the lable we wear or the 
slogans we shout, but by our work, industry, sacrifice, honesty and purity of character. 
They will want to know what we have actually done for them. But if you do not listen, 
if taking advantage of the prevailing misery and discontent of the people, you set about 
to accentuate and exploit it for party ends, it will recoil upon your head and even God 
will not forgive you for your betrayal of the people. 


With regard to freedom of expression also, I would like to give one small quote which 
you have probably heard before. Justice Holmes of the U.S.A. said that freedom of 
expression does not mean the freedom to shout fire in a crowded hall. Whatever we say is 
to be viewed in the context and conditions of the time. 


Sir, we have a tradition in this House and in the country of not allowing political or 
personal differences to come in the way of human relations during these years, there have 
been acrimonous speeches in the House generating an atmosphere of heat and bittermess. 
But it has been our effort not to let this affect our relationship outside. I am sorry that I 
wrote what the hon. Member opposite has called an angry letter. I thought that I did not 
get angry. But, obviously, he must have written something which agitated me and if he 
has freedom to express his views, so have I the freedom to express mine. But if this was 
anger, it was not directed against him personally, but against some words which he might 
have used. I am not willing to concede that it was an angry letter. | 


As the hon. Member, Shri Jairamdas Doltaram has remarked there is plenty of work 
to be done outside and I am sure that all our retiring Members will continue to serve in 
their different ways. Wherever they are, they will have our sincere gond wishes. Thank 
you, Sir. 


970 : 


Farewell to Shri M. Hidayatullah* 


Mr. Chairman, Shri Mukherjee, hon. Members of the Rajya Sabha, I am glad to have 
this opportunity of saying a few words to join in the sentiments of this august House, but 
I rise with some sadness. We shall all miss Justice Hidayatullah. 


Sir, you came to us after a distinguished legal and judicial career where you had attained 
the highest position. This dignity and long experience you brought to the Rajya Sabha. 
Initially you must have had a difficult time adapting to an environment of passion and 
noise, so different from the obedience of the court and the quiet companionship of Mother 
Nature on the golf course. But the training of a jurist juxtaposed with concentration and 
alertness so essential to score in golf makes an almost unflappable combination. So you 
soon found a close bond with the House. You have been not merely a distinguished 
Presiding Officer but also a guide, philosopher and friend to all of us, combining knowledge 
with humour and understanding. Even when your rulings may have been unpalatable to 
some on this side or on that side, they were readily accepted because of your fatherly and 
friendly manner. You deflated pomposity of any kind. If arguments became too heavy, you 
introduced lightheartedness, and if they were too flippant or superficial, you inducted the 
serious note which the subject deserved. Your apt quotations have enlivened the debates. 
Your witty remarks have often defused tension and brought harmony to the proceedings. 1 
hope hon. Members will appreciate and will emulate your spirit of sportsmanship. 


We all know what a store of entertaining anecdotes you had; and what a gracious host 
you have often been to us and others. I do not know if this is proper, but may I add that 
we should not under-estimate the qualities of the lady behind the scenes. Shn Hidayatullah 
has been supported ably and with grace by his charming wife and with her encouragement 
of the arts, her concern for the handicapped and other interests, adds new dimensions to 
their life and activities. 


On behalf of the Government and my party, and on my own behalf, I give our very 
best wishes to you, Sir, and to Shrimati Pushpa Hidayatullah. We hope that your gifts of 
mind and heart and your wide experience will continue to be at the service of our people. 


* Farewell to the Chairman, Rajya Sabha, on his retirement, R.S. Deb., 24 August, 1984, cc. 212-13. 


971 


12 


MISCELLANEOUS 


Celebrating Netaji’s Birthday“ 


Sir, since the hon. Member referred to my ministry and brought in the question of 
featuring Netaji’s birthday on All India Radio, I just want to say a few words. Firstly we 
have not categorised leaders. 


A decision was taken that only Mahatma Gandhi’s birthday would be celebrated every 
year. The birthday of other leaders 1s to be celebrated every five years. 


a 2 aie We 2 मर 7K मे 


I am sorry, I do not know the basis for that.** This happened, I suppose, in the 
beginning, immediately after our Independence, and this has continued. Nehru’s birthday 
happens to be celebrated as Children’s Day and it was celebrated as that. 


With regard to Netaji’s birthday, the reply we had given to Shri Kamath was that we 
had thought that his 70th birthday was next year and we were planning for it. We have no 
objection—by ‘next year’ I mean 1967—\to observing it in 1966 except that now the time 
is a little short and most radio programmes are planned a long time before. If hon. Members 
feel] that it should be done in 1966 we have no objection. 


ai oe ak OK aK ae ae ae 


We can certainly consider*** that, but the point is whether the 70th birthday is being 
observed in 1966 or 1967. [f you observe the 70th birthday in 1966, obviously you cannot 
observe it in 1967 again. 


fo भर 2k मंद ak 2 a ak 


We can consider that point****, But at that point of time it was the question of his 
70th birthday. 


I would like to say, Sir, that I do not think there is anybody in the Government who 
feels uncomfortable about Netaji’s name. We are exceedingly proud of him. Many of us 
had the privilege and honour of knowing him personally and of working with him also. I 


* Participating (as the Minister of Information and Broadcasting) in the debate on the Constitution (Amendment) 
Bill, 1965 (a Private Member, Shri Hari Vishnu Kamath’s Bill proposing amendment of the First Schedule), 
LS. Deb., 3 December, 1965, cc. 5538-40. (The Bill was later withdrawn.) 
** Replying to Shri Hari Vishnu Kamath’s remark, “What was the basis for that decision ?” 
*** Responding to suggestions of Shri Priya Gupta and Shri Hari Vishnu Kamath that a token programme would do. 
**** Replying to Shri Hari Vishnu Kamath's remark, “The point is about celebrating his birthday, his Jayanti every 
year. 


975 


do not think that we in any way want to denigrate his memory. In fact, we know that the 
‘Jai Hind” slogan has been popularised as an all India slogan, -and I hope it will continue. 
If, there is any other way in which we can honour his name we shall certainly take steps 
in that direction. 


ae a me aK मै He मर 


As this matter has only been just brought up—when I was asked to be present here 1 
had no idea as to why my presence was required* —I can assure the hon. Member that we 
will certainly consider that. Let us observe this one first and then we will consider the 
other one. 


* Shri Hari Vishnu Kamath wanted to know the Government's position on having a special broadcast on Netaji’s 
Jayanti day every year and not merely every five years. 


976 ° 


Drought and Famine Conditions in Orissa* 


Sir, I returned yesterday afternoon from a two-day tour of the areas acutely affected 
by drought and scarcity in Orissa. On the eve of my departure, I extended my stay in the 
State as originally proposed, by an extra day so as to have a fuller idea of the prevailing 
situation. I had occasion to visit ten villages in the three worst affected districts of 
Kalahandi, Sambalpur and Bolangir, including some which were not on schedule and which 
were selected on the spot, for surprise visits. At my request my colleagues Shn Jaganatha 
Rao and Shrimati Nandini Satpathy, who accompanied me, went to another three villages 
for which I could not myself find time; Shrimati Satpathy went to two villages to which I 
was to go, while I went to two others which were not on schedule. 


Apart from addressing large gatherings at Senapalli, Khariar and Padampur, I had the 
opportunity to meet and talk to a large number of villagers, wherever I went specially 
Adivasis and Harijans—and to visit their homes and see their families and children. I visited 
many gratutions relief and free feeding centres, school centres for feeding children, sites 
where relief works were in progress and centres for the distribution of loans and seed. I 
also had occasion to meet the honourable Member of this House from this area, and some 
Members of the State Legislature including those of the Opposition Party, local officials, 
Panchayat leaders, representatives of voluntary agencies working in the area, students and 
youth representatives, as well as others. 


I was naturally distressed to see conditions in these affected areas. It was obvious that 
the people had suffered considerable hardships. There is unprecedented drought and scarcity, 
and an acute lack of purchasing power. At the same time I was somewhat relieved to find 
that the situation is under control as a result of the energetic measures taken by the State 
Government. But there is no room whatsoever for complacency. On the contrary, there is 
great need for administering the relief programme with the utmost possible efficiency and 
despatch and for a very vigilant eye on the situation. 


My colleague, the Food Minister, apprised the House the other day of various measures 
taken to provide relief in the affected areas. The State Government have already 
strengthened the relief machinery at various levels and appointed a senior officer as Special 
Relief Commissioner to co-ordinate and direct relief work; he accompanied us during the 
tour. The relief programme has now been revised upwards to provide for an outlay of nearly 
9 crore. Asum of Rs. 1.35 crore was made available to the Orissa Government some time 
ago for expenditure on relief, and a further sum of Rs. 2 crore is being released today to 


* Making a Statement regarding her visit to Orissa, LS. Deb., 16 May, 1966, cc. 17139-143, 148-152. 


977 


provide ways and means support for further expenditure. I have emphasised that neither 


. figidity of procedure or formality, nor lack of resources should be allowed to come in the 


way of the programme, and such further needs as arise and are agreed upon will be similarly 
met. 


As the Food Minister announced the other day, the number of people covered under 
gratuitous relief which is meant for the old, the disabled and the infirm is being increased 
by the State Government to 2,00,000. The number of free feeding centres has also been 
increased. Some road-works are being undertaken to provide widespread employment to 
people; 10,000 wells are included in the programme out of which 3,000 are to be made 
pucca immediately, and the remaining after the rains. Other similar works are being 
undertaken, including those which can continue during the monsoon. Some medical teams 
are already at work; more will be sent. 


One of the most important and urgent needs ‘of the affected people is the adequate and 
timely supply of seed requirements for the next Kharif crop. A programme for the 
procurement and supply of 4 lakh maunds of seed by the middle of June has been drawn 
up and is under execution. Side by side, Rs. 3-5 crore of taqavi has been arranged. The 
original limits for the grant of taqavi have been liberalised to provide loans at the rate of 
about Rs. 100 per acre upto the limit of Rs. 800 to the same party. I have impressed upon 
the State Government and the officials concerned, the importance of timely implementation 
of this programme and they have assured me that they will keep the target date so that 
difficulties of movement in the rainy season do not come in the way. 


One of the questions raised concermed the actual wages earned by people volunteering 
themselves for reef works. The State Government have agreed firstly, that as far as possible 
panchayat and other agencies will be utilised to organise these works, with a view to 


minimising reliance on middlemen; and secondly, that in the pattern of wages paid, a . 


minimum earning of the value of one rupee per head per day is ensured for subsistence, 
irrespective of output, with more for anyone who is entitled to it on the basis of his actual 
work. 


There has been a demand in some quarters for the supply of paddy instead of milled 
rice. It appears that the bulk of the supplies have already been converted into rice, and the 
stocks of paddy available are now relatively limited; also, I was told that the actual demand 
for paddy might not be much. However, the State Government have agreed to arrange for 
some stocks of paddy to be sent to the affected areas where there might be demand. 


The problem of the high price at which rice was being sold was also brought up and it 
has now been decided firstly, to subsidise rice in selected areas of specially acute distress; 
and secondly, to supply partly wheat and partly rice in areas where this combination will 
be appropriate, thereby bringing down the overall purchase price. 


I was particularly concerned, as I am sure the House will also be, about the health and 
welfare of children in the scarcity-affected areas. I have advised the State Government to 
consider extending the scope of the children’s midday feeding programme to non-school 
going children, at least in the pockets which are specially hard hit. At one such feeding 


978 हर 


४22, ०१, , “7 
आन जन 2 


centre I saw that this had, already been started in a small way. I have also suggested that a 
suitable person might be attached to the Special Relief Commissioner to help him coordinate 
the Health and Child Welfare programmes. 


‘For the next agricultural season, apart from loans and seed to which I have referred 
earlier, the State Government are arranging to press into service all available power-tillers 
and some tractors to help cultivators plough their lands, subsidising the service in the case 
of the more needy. 


My anxiety is as much about the long-term needs of this very backward area as about 
its immediate needs. It 15 obvious that this area has not yet received the impact of 
development programmes in any appreciable manner. This state of affairs cannot be 
permitted to continue and we must devise an accelerated programme for its long-term 
development on the basis of priority. 4 am asking my colleague, the Planning Minister, to 
go into this matter at an early date in consultation with the Planning Commission so that 
we can undertake this task as early as may be practicable. 


I was deeply touched by the affection and kindness with which people received me 
everywhere, in large numbers, in spite of the gruelling heat. I was also heartened to see 
their spirit and high morale regardless of the present difficulties. 


2k अर मर मै he fe ae ak ak 


The first question is whether this is a famine or not. As, I think, the Food Minister has 
mentioned in this House on an earlier occasion, the States have their own famine codes. 
According to the conditions for declaring famine under the State code, it is not a famine. 
Nevertheless, the State Government has adopted a number of relief measures which are 
generally more liberal than what the famine code would provide. I do not think it makes 
much difference what word is used, provided all that is necessary to be done is being done. 


afe मंद afc He और ae oe मर 


1 would certainly like to have it done on as much war footing as possible. I think that 
can be done when everybody joins in that. Fortunately, the public is being very helpful, 
and even students who are now having their holidays are wanting to help. There is just 
one problem where students want help. They want to be fed. This causes a little difficulty 
because people who go from the city also want to be fed. There, perhaps, we can made 
some arrangements by which their own organisations can undertake to feed them. 


In Sambalpur—I am afraid I did not have much time to go to the other areas—I did 
20 into the reports about deaths which were supposed to have taken place on account of 
starvation. I looked in great detail into the enquiry reports, and I think the number which 
is now being quoted in this House is far from anywhere near reality and it is absolutely 
ridiculous. 


We मंध मु oi 2c a - RI 


I looked into some of the reports which the Commissioner had got from different places. 
My general impression was that there have been some cases in which deaths have occurred. 


979 


But generally these cases had a background of age, of ill-health and disease. It is also true ae 
~ that this is an area which has been very very poor where the people have been living on a eee 
‘very :ow diet for—I do not know, for how many years—I must say, about a hundred years. a 
It was the hon. Member, Shri Dwivedy, who showed us some mahuwa and other things. a 
As I was going from village to village, I noticed some people, almost like in small meetings 1 
under a tree. I stopped the car and went to them. The ladies among them came and showed 
me what they were eating. In the course of the conversation I asked them : “Ts it the first 
year that you are eating this, or have you been eating this before ?” They replied, “We 
always eat this.” 


we ae a WK हैः ae a 


They denied eating 1t.* But it was 1n their baskets. When I asked them: “Do you also 
eat this”, one of the ladies said “No”. Obviously, I have not been to other places and I 
could not have seen those particular places which are the worst affected. 


a HE मं: MK aK ak ae a 


_ Whenever we wanted to go to a place as originally fixed, somebody, for instance, from 
the Opposition, some local people, used to come and say that we should not go to that 
place but instead we should go to some other villages. So we dropped the original one 
and went to the other village. I did not see any persons who looked as if they were going 
to die or who looked specially thin and so on. 


ah मैप मं a af कै ae oe अं 


It is not correct.** As I said, the police did not even know where I would be going. 
When I wanted to go to a village, some people used to say that instead of that village I 
should go to some other village. Immediately I sent Shrimati Satpati in the direction in 
which I was to have gone and I went in the other direction. So there was no question of 
the police being near me, the police were all in Bhuvaneswar, not in these areas. 


I must confess that the people who really seemed to be suffering were the very old 
people and weak children. I saw a number of children with distended stomaches. But those 
who were part of the food programme were looking well. That is why I lay stress that 
apart from the distribution of seeds, which of course is of first importance to farmers, the 
children’s programme should get top priority. I think we will be able to do that. The 
difficulty is now of personnel and collecting those who do not go to school. But through 
the panchayats and with the help of voluntary workers I think this may be manageable. 


eh ee a मर aft ah ee 


Shri Surendranath Dwivedi made a mention about giving paddy. I myself did ask the 
people in the villages, mostly women and none of the women I asked showed a preference 


* Replying to Shri Surendranath Dwivedy's remark, ‘Peepal leaves”. 
** Replying to Shri Surendranath Dwivedy’s query, ‘Whether it was right.that the police did not allow anyone to 
meet the Prime Minister.” 


for paddy. They felt that it would involve extra work and that it would be much easier to 
have rice. In spite of this, I told the Chief Minister who was with me that because people 
had made this demand paddy may be made available in some villages. If the Government 
felt that the people wanted it they might make efforts to give more. 


Regarding the Indravati project, the hon. Member, Shri P.K. Deo, gave me a 
memorandum on it. As I mentioned in my statement also, we shall certainly look into this. 


So far as the long-term and short-term measures are concerned. I have already spoken 
about the short-term measures. Regarding long-term measures, most of the adivasis live 
in areas where there is very bad communication. This is a great difficulty. Therefore, it is 
very important now to build up communcation now. Also, most of the roads are such that 
during the rains the rivers and nullahs overflow and it is not easy to go. If something can 
be done to make that small bit pucca, I think that would be of help. There are many such 
things. 


मं af ae a ae ae ai oe aie 


Wells are being dug.* The existing tanks are cleaned. In some places the people have 
dug canals of their own. They wanted to be reimbursed for that, and we are looking into 
it. But the major thing, of course, 1s irrigation, communication and, as far as the Adivasis 
and Harijans are concerned, some kind of multi-purpose food. I think, if we put forward 
these programmes, this would go a long way towards helping them. But the problem is 
such an old one, such a vast one, I must say it is not only in Orissa. You will find such 
people in every part of India and certainly in eastern U.P. So, this is something which is 
not easy to do and it cannot be done very quickly. But certainly it can be taken in hand as 
soon as possible. 


Somebody mentioned whether this was like the Bengal Famine. This is nothing like 
that at all. There, it was a question of people dropping dead. 


ae ie a we ae ah meh मंद 


From what I have read of the Bengal Famine—because I was not out then—and heard 
from those who worked there is that the stories were quite different. 


* Responding to Shri Tyagi’s question, ‘Is there any plan to provide irrigation facilities to villages wherever it is 
possible?” 


981 


wa 
ee aes 


epee te 
TO महक पल 


है नह बन 


प्र 


Resignation by Shri Gulzarilal Nanda* 


जा, I received Shri Nanda’s letter only late last evening as well as the copy of his Press 
statement, both of which have appeared in the Press today. I have no desire to join issue 
with or comment upon the observations made by Nandaji either in his letter or in his 
statement to the Press. I do not think that it would serve any public purpose to go into 
them (/nterruption). I would only like to say, it was after deep and most anxious thought 
and with much regret that I decided to recommend to the President’s acceptance of Shri 
Nanda’s resignation (/nterruption). Speaking personally, it has been a matter of painful 
parting of an old and trusted colleague whose hard work and integrity were appreciated 
by us all. As I have said to Shn Nanda in my letter, I hope that his cooperation and wise 
counsel will continue to be available to us, the Government and this country. 


मर ake मं ae ak मर #0 मं 


Sir, I am very sorry that Nandaji has the impression that I was not giving my fullest 
co-operation to him. I can assure the House that I tried to give the utmost co-operation 
and to the best of my ability. It can be that I did not agree with some of the things which 
he wanted and which I had to look at from a larger perspective. 


ek मं ah a ak ae ai ak 


One of the things which I wanted to say is this. It has been taken for granted here in 
the House and perhaps also by Nandaji that I accepted his resignation because of the 
happenings on that particular day in Delhi. This is not so. It is not at all my intention to 
lay the blame for what has happened on Nandaji’s shoulders. (/nterruptions). 


ae He मु mK I के ae ac ac 


The responsibility, as I said in my speech the other day, Sir, 1s one which is shared by 
all of us here; not only the Government but the Opposition and many people outside who 
have been creating an atmosphere which has led upto the events which have taken place 
here and in other parts of the country. We cannot run away from that fact; no matter how 
much shouting there 1s, that fact remains. (Jnterruptions). As far as the appointment of the 
Secretary is concerned, that is a departmental affair. There is a special Appointments 
Committee of the Cabinet which goes into this matter. (Interruptions) 


Prt. He oh मई मं a oe 


* Making a Statement regarding the resignation of the Home Minister, Shri Gulzarilal Nanda and responding to the 
points raised by Members regarding the motions for adjournment and Calling Attention Notices given by them in 
connection with his resignation, L.S. Deb., 10 November, 1966, cc. 2494-95, 2510-22. 


It is the Minister’s responsibility as to what policy is followed.* Who decides the policy 
in a particular ministry, it is the Minister’s responsibility surely. 


ah oh ak ae ak मर a a 


It is not a question of lie.** It is for the Minister to support whatever suggestions are 
made by Secretaries or not to support them and tell them that he wishes to follow another 
direction. 


ae af ak ae a ak मै ae के 


I do not know what matters of policy are referred to here.*** The matter which was 
referred to in the letter was with regard to the change of Secretary. (/nterruptions) Mr. 
Gopalan has asked a specific question regarding integrity at different levels of Government's 
working. It is not possible to give a categorical answer. There are cases when there is not, 
and the House knows that we go into those cases. Nandaji himself was responsible for 
setting up Vigilance Officers. We are not changing that. (Interruptions). 

ae Hc akc मं मर मर me ae कर 


I do not think there is a case for enquiry.**** But I shall certainly look into the points 
he has raised. 


me He मर aie मंध मर wea कं 


The Home Minister did ask for the removal of his Secretary.***** But as I said earlier, 
many Ministers are asking for either the appointment or the removal of a particular 
Secretary. 


aK OK ai मं ae ae ae कर 


The Home Ministry comes along with other Ministries in this.@ I have to look at it 
and decide in the larger interest which person should be where. I gave my reasons to the 
Home Minister for that. 


ak a और AK He ate a a 


I cannot say when the Appointment Sub-committee began. @ @ It was certainly there 
since I have come into the Government, since Shastriji was there. (/nterruption) I am told 
now it was there before also. It consists of the Prime Minister, the Home Minister and the 
concerned Minister. 


* Replying to Shri A.K. Gopalan’s query as to whether it is the Ministers or Secretaries who decide the policy. 
** Responding to Shri A.K. Gopalan’s remark, ‘“That means what Nandaji said is a lie”. 
*** Answering Shri A.K. Gopalan’s question, “Did the Prime Minister support him in his policy 7” 
**** Replying to Shri Warior who wanted to know whether the Prime Minister would institute any inquiry into the 
charges levelled against the Secretary and Secretariat and others by Shri Nandaji. 
***** Replying to Shri Vasudevan Nair's question as to whether the Home Minister wanted to remove his Secretary and 
whether the issue was brought to her attention. 
@ Replying to Shri Ranga’s remark, “The Home Ministry is supposed to be in charge of all these”. 
@@ Shri Ranga wanted to know when did the Appointment Sub-committee come into existence and who were its 
members. 


Earthquake in Western India‘ 


May I just say a few words? I do not have much information just now, but I should 
like to say a few words if you will allow me. 


I should like to express my deep distress at the great human tragedy which has been 
caused by the earthquake in western India. It is one of the severest we have had and 
certainly the biggest ever felt in that area. It has resulted, as the hon. Members know, in a 
high death toll. We do not, as yet, have the full figures because it is only as they remove 
the debris and the information comes in from towns and villages that the full extent of the 
loss will be known. But we know that there had been extensive damage to property. The 
Home Minister happened to be in Maharashtra when this news reached him and he flew 
immediately to Koynanagar. Yesterday when the news came to Delhi, our Minister, Dr. 
K.L. Rao, rushed immediately to the Koyna Dam. According to present information, -no 
damage has been done to the Dam. 


I should like to read out a report which has come from the Director-General of the 
Meteorological Department. He says :— 


‘A major earthquake shock. took place at 04 hours 21 minutes Indian Standard Time 
on the 11th December, 1967. The epicentre of this shock has been located about 115 
kilometres south of Poona near Koyna. According to the records of the Delhi Observatory, 
the magnitude of the shock was 7 ’/, in the Richter Scale, which will class it as a major 
shock capable of causing severe damage near the epicentre. Available reports indicate that 
the shock has been felt widely upto Surat in the north and Bangalore in the south. Poona 
city was severely shaken. Radio reports indicate that 1500 people were injured and about 
105 were killed, as far as we know”. 


I have received a piece of news just now and that is that the tremors were again felt in 
Bombay around 11.58 A.M. and in several areas, people came out of their houses, on finding 
their doors and windows rattling. 


May I express my sense of deep sorrow at this calamity and request you to convey 
our sincere sympathies to the families of the bereaved? 


* Statement regarding Earthquake in Western India, L.S. Deb., 12 December, 1967, cc. 6322-23. 


Floods* 


+...Mr. Speaker, Sir, our country is facing a great calamity on account of floods. This 
calamity is a matter of great concern and sorrow for all of us. The hon. Minister in his 
Statement on floods has told that many villages and cities including bridges and other things 
have been submerged and as a result thereof thousands of people have lost their lives. This 
flood has swept away the houses of lakhs of people. It has caused havoc in Assam, Bengal, 
Rajasthan, Kerala and now it is affecting Gujarat, especially Surat. In the beginning I visited 
some places but due to Parliament being in session, I could not visit many places. It is 
true when such a great calamity befalls we have to divert all our resources there and all 
possible efforts are made to get rid of that calamity. Here, I would like to clarify that at 
times our visits to these places add to the difficulties of those people, because they are 
required to make a lot of arrangements for us... 


a a भर a ak मं मर ak ak 


The need of the hour is to provide relief to the flood affected people. We can express 
sympathy from here itself. **But taking concrete relief measure is much more important 
than simply expressing our sympathy. It is strange that we have been facing a drought for 
the last two or three years. Some areas are still reeling under drought but at the same time 
we are also facing severe flood situation at many other places. When faced with drought 
conditions, we had concentrated our entire efforts to remove the sufferings of the drought 
affected people. We have tried our best to start relief work for them and we should start 
implementation of al] the relief measures in order to avoid recurrence of drought on such 
a large scale in future, and even then if such conditions recur, the people must have 
sufficient resources to combat it. As Shri Manubhai has said, I also wish that same efforts 
should be made this time too. 


Just now an hon. Member*** has said that no one should take political mileage out of 
it, but he himself has started his speech exactly on the same line. Anyway, I do not want 
to say more about it, I am only inviting the attention of the House towards it. We do not 
want any politics in it. Due to this flood, a large number of people of the country are facing 


* Participating in the debate on a Motion regarding the flood situation in the country, L.S. Deb., 12 August, 1968, cc. 
1691-95. 
t Original speech in Hindi. 
** Responding to Shri Om Prakash Tyagi’s suggestion, ‘You should go, because by such visits affected people get 
sympathy and consolation”. 


*** Shri C.C. Desai. 


985 


a grave crisis. In Gujarat, and at some other places many people are in deep distress. Today 
we all should face and resolve it unitedly by treating it as a national crisis. 


I am surprised to hear all that has been said here about Gujarat. It was alleged that 
Opposition members were not allowed to visit there. Actually sometimes we used to hear 
such things about other persons, but so far as the Chief Minister of Gujarat is concerned, 
he is known for his ability to take all the people with him. I said it because I was a bit 
surprised to know all this. This hon. Member has said that he perhaps could not go there 
in the helicopter. I do not know how many helicopters are there and how many people 
can be accommodated in one helicopter ? All these things would be looked into. 


The same thing has been said in regard to the people accompanying me during my 
visits. I always try to accommodate all those Members of the House who belong to the 
State or Constituency which I visit. I never mind whether the Members accompanying me 
belong to Congress or any other Party and on one or two occasions, non-Congress people 
have also accompanied me. 


At this juncture on behalf of Government of India, I want to express deep sympathies 
towards all the flood victims and I hope that whatever aid they require will be provided to 
them. The Government will ensure that sufficient relief is provided to these victims. But 
at the same time we have to take concrete ‘steps so as to control floods in future by giving 
a serious thought to this issue. 


Foodgrains, had also been the topic of discussion here. It is for the first time that I 
have heard such a thing here. Just before the hon. Member* spoke about it, I had received 
a telephone call from Gujarat in this regard, and we are looking into it on a priority basis. 
I do not want to say anything more. I want to express my heartiest sympathies again towards 


the bereaved families who have lost their kith and kin. Besides, it is necessary that we all - 


must make concerted efforts together to solve this problem and to take steps to provide 
relief to the affected people so that they do not suffer again. But at the same time, I would 
like to say that this is a gigantic problem which cannot be easily solved. 


It requires a lot of resources and funds but as I said earlier, we must try to solve it by 
making concerted efforts as well as by treating it as a national problem. When we are paying 
attention to increase foodgrain production, we should also take initiative to tackle the flood 
and drought problems with equal seriousness. 


* Shri C.C. Desai. 


Business Connections of Relatives of Ministers* 


Mr. Speaker, Sir, may I first say just a word about the admission of this motion ? It is 
true, Sir, that you had referred the motion to me and to the Deputy Prime Minister. But 
we were informed by your Secretariat that you had already admitted it and you were asking 
only about the time of its discussion. 


मंध्मंर IK a मं a ae ae ak 


I am rather distressed that senior Members of this House such as the hon. Members 
Shri Masani or Shri Vajpayee should have introduced a new element in this discussion by 
quoting from newspapers which are not known either for their objectivity. 


a 3 a aK 2 2k a i ak 


Perhaps they believe that what they suggested reflects some kind of Machiavellian 
wisdom or strategy but it is, I am sorry to say, merely cheap political propaganda and, if I 
may say so, wishful thinking on their part. Some extraordinary charges have been made. I 
am glad that the two Ministers here have refuted them. I think, the charges are as irrelevant 
as they are ridiculous. 


ae ok मर 4K af 2 ak 


I have noticed the great interest which the Opposition parties always display in the 
unity of our side. They themselves, of course, combine only for one thing. Hon. Member. 
Shri Dwivedy, said it himself, so I can quote him. They want to make every effort to oust 
this Government. Many methods have been tried and one after the other they have failed. 
So now there is one more effort to divide us by making allegations and spreading all kinds 
of rumours. I should like to tell them that the Congress Party is not going to assist them in 
their designs into reality....d/nterruption). 


The Deputy Prime Minister** has made a comprehensive statement dealing with the 
points raised and has already given to this House the details of his son’s business 
connections. 


It is no one’s case, except the venerable Acharyaji’s that the sons or other near relations 
of ministers should not engage in business. Indeed, Shri Kantilal Desai has been in business 


* Speaking on the Motion on the Deputy Prime Minister's Statement regarding his son’s business connections, LS. 
Deb., 19 August, 1968, cc. 2808-11. 
** Shri Morarji Desai. 


९2 


for some considerable time. He was in business even when the Deputy Prime Minister 
was a Union Minister from 1957 to 1963, which I might remind the last speaker on that 
side, was for more than three years. Hon. Members opposite have not charged that there 
was anything wrong in that. Then there is a period between 1963, when Shri Morarji Desai 
left office, until he joined Government again in March 1967. It was during this period that 
Shri Kantilal Desai gradually severed his connections with most of the firms with which 
he was concerned. Today he is director of one private limited company and one proprietary 
firm which, according to the statement made by the Deputy Prime Minister, has ceased to 
do any fresh business. 


We all agree that while there is no bar to the sons and relatives of ministers carrying 
on normal and legitimate business, there is an obligation, as the hon. Members opposite 
and also on our side have pointed out, as much on such relatives as on ministers themselves 
that there should be no occasion for any doubt to be raised that relationship with the 
Minister has been utilised for the advancement of any business. 


Hon. Members opposite have not produced evidence in support of the charge that Shn 
Kantilal Desai used his position as a son to promote his business interests. Indeed, the 
Deputy Prime Minister has, categorically, stated in his statement today that he has sought 
to ensure that his son did not come anywhere near the discharge of his official 
responsibilities. I have no reason to doubt that the Deputy Prime Minister has assured 
himself of this. 


The essence of the charge in Shri Madhu Limaye’s motion is that in making certain 
statements, the Deputy Prime Minister has, deliberately, misled the House to an extent 
which would amount to a breach of privilege of this House and would attract the disapproval 
of the House. 


Mr. Speaker, Sir, on two separate occasions, you have ruled that, in fact, there was no 
breach of privilege. It is, therefore, clear that whatever the hon. Member opposite might 
say regarding the adequacy or otherwise of the statements made by the Deputy Prime 
Minister, there was no wilful or intentional misrepresentation. What then is the motive 
attributed to him specially since, at that time, he was not in office ? 


Public life imposes a heavy burden of duties and the responsibilities on us all and none 
is more onerous than being called upon to sit in judgment over tne actions of one’s 
colleagues and specially on those whose lives have been spent in public service. My 
colleague, the Deputy Prime Minister, as many Members have pointed out has to his credit 
many years of devoted and dedicated public service. He has, through the years, come to 
occupy a position of eminence in public life. No one has cast aspersions on his personal 
integrity. When I am accused of dereliction of duty in not calling upon the Deputy Prime 
Minister to resign, I am bound to ask : What case the hon. Members opposite have made 
out which should impel me to oblige them, and to part with a trusted colleague ? The 
statement made by the Deputy Prime Minister clarifies the context in which he had made 
the earlier statements. 


I submit that the Motion before us is misconceived and deserves to be rejected. 


TL cites 


Third Pay Commission* 


Mr. Speaker, Sir, the question of appointing a Pay Commission to review the pay 
structure and other conditions of service of Central Government Employees has been under 
examination for sometime. Government have taken a decision, in principle, to appoint a 
new Commission for the purpose. Questions like its composition, coverage and terms of 
reference are under active examination and as soon as these details are finalised, an 
announcement will be made, if possible in the course of the current session. 


मेष a मर a ae a a मर ae 


Government had made it clear that Government regarded a need-based wage as an 
important objective of their socio-economic policy and that it could be said that the 
Gajendragadkar Commission on labour was seized of the question.** That Commission 
has since made its report, and on this particular question the Commission has expressed 
the view that the principle of a national minimum wage to be determined in monetary terms 
is not practicable. They have also accepted in principle that the capacity to pay will be 
relevant consideration in determining a need-based minimum. They have also stated that 
they are not in a position to quantify a need-based wage in money terms or to assess 
Government’s capacity to pay. These matters have been left by them to be gone into by a 
Pay Commission. 


As I said in the statement, the terms of reference of the new Pay Commission are under 
consideration. However, it is our intention that it should be open to the Commission to 
consider this question in all its aspects. The previous Commission also considered similar 
issues. 


The House is aware that our general sympathy on this issue 1s with the workers, but 
the question is a rather complicated one in terms of what is possible and practicable. The 
matter was considered by the Second Pay Commission, but they neither accepted nor 
rejected the demand. So, we would like this question to be considered in all its aspects by 
the new Pay Commission as was recommended by Shri Gajendragadkar. 


* Making a Statement in response to a Calling Attention regarding the appointment of Pay Commission for the 
Central Government employees, L.S. Deb., 21 November, 1969, cc. 376-84. 
** Replying to Shri Surendranath Dwivedy who asked, “....Since Government here have accepted in principle a 
need-based wage, will the New Commission be given a time-limit for the submission of their final report and will 
a time-limit also be set for its implementation? Also will this Commission go into the question of the determination 
of scales of wages taking a need-based wage as the basis?” 


Some hon. Members said that the previous Commission’s recommendations had not 
been accepted. As far as I know, seeking subject to correction, by and large they were 
accepted, and in fact, in regard to some aspect like family pension, we went beyond the 
recommendation. 


eh a eK कट Me He ae 


The matters to be considered are very complicated. It is very difficult for us to give a 
time-limit. We can only say that the last Commission, as hon. Members know, took about 
two years. 


मंध्मंप a के कं: a मं कंध मर 


If I can start speaking.* I can take up the points. If I am not allowed even to begin 
replying, obviously I cannot give a reply. Perhaps I used the wrong word. I do not mean 
‘jhagra’ in that sense. One of the main demands was for a Pay Commission.... 


ae a ae mK I ae MK ok 


Government had not agreed to it. Now we have agreed to it. As for as possible we try 
to accept the recommendations. In this case we shall certainly try to do so but it is not 
possible to give assurance....(Interruptions). 


mH के ae He के aK कं: अं 


Coming to the question of interim relief, I think we should leave this matter also to 
the Pay Commission, not to wait for the final report but to take interim recommendations. 
(Interruptions) 


ae ae ak 2 ok मै Hak a 


We will consider all these points when we set up the Pay Commission.** As I said, 
the previous Commission took about two years to finalise its recommendations. I would 
certainly hope that this Commission finishes its work in less time, if possible; certainly, 
not more than that. The recommendations of the Second Pay Commission were largely 
accepted and statements have been made in the House explaining the items which were 
accepted as well as those in regard to which some departures were found necessary. 


मैप मंध ae ae ai a मै मै मंद 


It must be left to the Pay Commission to take all points of view, to consider all aspects 
and then come to conclusions. 


* Replying to the demand made by Shri George Fernandes. He said that he wanted arbitration and not Pay Commission. 

** Shri N. Shivappa desired an assurance from the Prime Minister that the terms of reference for the Pay Commission 

would include consideration of those points which would enhance incentive for work and asked why should State 
officials be differentiated from the Central officials in the matter of emoluments. 


Meetings Between Shri T.T. Krishnamachari and 
Some Government Officials* 


.. Shri P.C. Sethi did say that he had come here with full authority because this matter 
had come up suddenly and I had a previous engagement which I could not get out of, and, 
therefore, I posted him with the full picture and he made a statement. He said I do not 
remember his exact words—that ‘the Prime Minister will not be able to add to what I have 
said.’ I have nothing to add to what he has said ॥ that context. 


se a मं a oe और ate ne ak 


I would request Shri Kanwarlal Gupta to let me be heard patiently.** Also I am talking 
as fast as I can; I am not going slow. 


Shr Dwivedy has now mentioned an officer*** by name. Another hon. Member also 
talked about files being taken. I can assure hon. Members that almost every day many 
people, and amongst them MPs, including Members from the Opposition—those sitting 
on this side also—of the Swantantra Party and others quite often come to give their 
suggestions as to what they think should be done, not with regard to the Budget, but general 
suggestions with regard to the economy and so on. 


Now Shri T.T. Krishnamachari also mentioned certain things saying that he would like 
to give some ideas. Some illustrative examples were given; there was also follow-up of 
the nationalisation of banks and so on. Shri Dwivedy should know that Shn Bakshi has 
nothing to do with budget-making. He is there purely to see to the follow-up of the 
nationalisation of banks (/nterruptions). I am coming to every single point, if only they 
will just sit and listen. 


3 oe ak ae aK और we कं: कं 


I would request Shri Dwivedy to sit down. I will answer every point. It I do not, he 
can ask me at the end. 


Shri Dwivedy said that Shri Bakshi made some notes on a file. I do not know if he 
kept a record of what Shri T.T. Krishnamachani said. But I am assured by all these officers 


* Making a Statement regarding meetings between some Government officials and Shri T-T. Krishnamachari, 
LS. Deb., 3 December 1969, cc. 222-26. 
** Reacting to Shri Kanwarlal Gupta’s remark, ‘What about the talks 7” 
*** Shri Bakshi. 


991 


that they did not say anything, they just listened to the suggestions which Shri T.T.K. 
» made. 


ea मर मं ac af a कं ah 


Some of the suggestions that he made were a little complicated which had naturally to 
be looked into to see whether they could be worked. This had nothing to do with the 
Budget—on that I can assure you. But I will certainly look into the fact whether any notes 
were kept. If so, I am prepared, Sir, to show them to you. 


a मंद ae af ak ae a ae 


I did not direct anybody to meet Shni T.T.K.* 


If they ask me ‘Can I go and meet so and so ?** I have said ‘yes’. But I did not say, 
‘you have to go and meet him’. 1 did not direct them to do so. (/nterruptions). 


Mention was made of a specific name. He is an officer whom Shri T.T. Krishnamachari 
had known before. That officer also paid a courtesy call on him (/nterruptions). Courtesy 
calls have been paid on many Members. 


a ae a a ak a ae ae कु 
When Shri T.T.K. asked for an appointment with me, he asked if I could call such and 


such official because he had left notes and so on previously about one or two of these 
matters and he would like them to be there. I saw no objection to it. 


Therefore, it is true that on that occasion when Shri T.T. Krishnamachari came to see 
me, I did ask these officers whether they would be present. 


a. 20% 
। 


I have assured the House that it had absolutely nothing to do with the Budget; it was 
not mentioned either by Shni T.T.K. or by any of the officials. 


Shri Sethi mentioned by way of illustration the sort of things that was discussed. As I 
said, some of these officials may have kept notes about these matters or anything that was 
discussed. These I am prepared to show you. There is no question of anybody removing 
any file or any paper from any file. There was no question of taking any file. I would like 
to assure hon. Members about this matter because I can fully undcrstand Members’ great 
concer if official files and secrets are discussed with people who are not authorised. Shn 
T.T.K. himself has made a statement on this matter that he has not discussed this question. 


Shri Kanwarlal Gupta made the point that some official got up from the gallery here. 
He might have, but I do not think it is right to link this or connect this with that. I must 
say that I was unaware of this particular visit till it was mentioned here. It was only when 
it was mentioned here that Mr. Bakshi had met him, it was told and I enquired he said : 


* Replying to Shri Atal Bihari Vajpayee’s question, ‘Who directed the officers to meet Shri T.T.K.” 
** Dr, Ram Subhag Singh intervened, “But that was what Shri Sethi said yesterday that she asked them to go and see 
them” and also Shri Rabi Ray remarked, ‘She is contradicting herself.” 


Yes, I was because he had some ideas and T.T.K. wanted to discuss about the follow-up 
measures.... (Interruptions) 


He अप a कं कं कं me ok 


*Mr. Vice-Chairman as certain observations were made on the floor of the House 
regarding the meetings which some officers of the Finance Ministry had with Shri T.T. 
Krishnamachari I have sought your leave to place the following facts before the House : 


Shri T.T. Krishnamachari was recently in Delhi and he met me. In the course of these 
meetings I naturally had occasion to exchange ideas with him on many subjects. Shri 
Krishnamachari conveyed certain ideas to me and suggestions in regard to social and 
economic development. It was with my approval that some of our officers of the Finance 
Ministry met Shn Knshnamachani to seek clarifications and enlightenment in respect of 
these ideas. Government categorically repudiates that in the course of these meetings the 
officers took any files or official records to him or divulged Government thinking on policy 
matters. 

me oe ae aK He 3c mK मर 


Sir, the first question asked was whether I had directed any officer to go and meet 
him.** I did not direct any officer to do that but if an officer asked me whether he could 
go and meet him, I gave my approval. Now I have said in the Statement that no Budget or 
taxation proposal was discussed. In fact I do not think it would be right even to call these 
things discussions as such because Shri Krishnamachari gave his ideas and they had 
absolutely nothing to do with the Budget or taxation. The people who met him, except for 
the Finance Secretary, are not directly concerned with the Budget. For instance, the hon. 
Member mentioned Shri Bakshi. Shri Bakshi has recently joined the Finance Ministry to 
take charge of the newly formed Banking Department and his talk with him was merely 
with regard to the follow-up action of nationalisation of the 14 banks.Shri Bakshi merely 
went to pay a courtesy call during which Shr Krishnamachani gave a few ideas. Shri Bakshi 
has said that he did not make any noting whatsoever on any matter discussed with him 
including taxation; taxation and so on did not come into that conversation at all. There 
were other people present there and most of the talk was of a general and social nature. 


Then the hon. Member asked the matters that were discussed. As the hon. Member 
perhaps knows, Shri Krishnamachari came to meet me in my office here in Parliament 
and there were some officers present there. The officers told me that the same subjects 
were mentioned earlier when they met him and these are broadly—I do not want to go 
into the whole list—the question of family pension, housing, rural development, etc. These 
were some of the questions and, of course, the follow-up of the nationalisation of banks. 
He also gave some ideas with regard to the ceiling on urban property. I would like to 


* Making a Statement regarding meeting of four senior officers of the Finance Ministry with Shni 1.1. Krishnamachari, 
R.S. Deb. 4 December, 1969, cc. 2929-48. 

** Replying to Shri Mulka Govinda Reddy who inter-alia wanted to know whether the Prime Minister had directed 
senior officers of the Finance Ministry to meet Shri Krishnamachari and discuss with bum certain economic matters; 
and whether the officers, who were under oath of secrecy, were entitled to discuss matters concerning finance with 
a person, however eminent he might have been. 


993 


categorically say that at no stage was any Budget or taxation measure discussed. I would 
‘ also categorically repudiate any allegation or insinuation to the effect that there has been 
a record of the discussions with any of the Secretaries of the Finance Ministry, which 
contains a reference to taxation matters. 

oak ak weak a Hee ok 


Sir, there seems to be some mixing-up.* They went there as a matter of courtesy and 
it also happened to be his birthday and many people had gone there. There he mentioned 
certain ideas and said he would like to express himself more fully. After all, Sir, officers 
pay courtesy calls on all kinds of people. For example all kinds of people not only come 
to me but they also give their suggestions and they also quite often go to officials to give 
their suggestions. We have never prevented this kind of thing. As far as the showing of 
files is concermed, it is forbidden; they are official secrets. But the hon. Member will agree 
that one cannot stop people from going and paying a countesy call on others. Even when 
Shri Bakshi was in the Reserve Bank, he happened to go to Madras for work and he called 
on Shri Krishnamachani there. It is a matter of courtesy, nothing else. 


a कं toe मं मेक मे 


I don’t take it il] at all.** It seems to me that the arguments are rather tortuous, if I 
may put it that way. I have made it clear. Firstly, I did not discuss socialism with T.T.K. 1 
said “socio-economic problems” which the hon. Member, I think, should know may have 
quite a different meaning, and may have nothing to do with socialism. They exist in a 
capitalist system or a communist system or any other system. Again, as I said, it was not 
as if just somebody came. He is an elderly person, who has been our colleague and for 
whom I have respect. If any one comes to me and says, “I would like to place my views 
before you,” Obviously, I say, “certainly, I will hear your views.” This is what I said, I get- 
such views from all parts of the House. All Members come, and many of them give written 
notes. Many of them tell me about their ideas and I listen most patiently to them. 


And not only do I listen, we do also try to work out whether the idea or the proposal 
is a feasible one from the financial or other points of view. This was the position, namely, 
that T.T.K. wanted to put certain ideas, and I mentioned the sort of subjects which he 
covered and which had nothing to do with the Budget. I think that it is very unfair, without 
any basis, to make allegations, to say that officials went with their files and so on, when I 
have said categorically that nobody went with any files, nobody went with the idea of 
discussing any kind of official business. But, obviously, if they go to see somebody and 
he puts certain ideas, a mental note is made of the ideas mentioned. The hon. Member, 
Shri Mishra, has asked, ‘Why did they ask for permission ?7 In the normal course perhaps 
they would not have asked, but it just happened that I had a meeting with my officials. So 


* Replying to Shri Mulka Govinda Reddy who wanted to know as to why the four officers went together to meet Shri 
Krishnamachari; and to Shri Rajnarain who wanted to know why did they need the Prime Minister's approval 
** Replying to the points raised by Shri S.N. Mishra who inter-alia asked as to why the officials thought that special 
permission was necessary to meet Shri Krishnamachari, when their visit was a social call. He also expressed his 
doubts over Shri T.T. Krishnamachari’s brand of socialism 


22002 
22222: 


they mentioned, “Can we meet so and so ? He would like to discuss his ideas further.” If I 
had not had this meeting, perhaps the question of permission would not have cropped up. 
I do not know. But they did and I certainly agreed. “Well, it is all nght.” The same subjects 
were discussed. 


me fe oh aK ae a मंद मंद ae 


This has been made absolutely clear*, I made this very clear, Sir, I think. There is no 
confusion. 


me नर के के ah के ae मर oe 


I have already replied to the first question.** If any body wants to give some suggestion, 
we Should listen to them. As regards the second point relating to the impact on the share 
market, I have not pondered over it. The hon. Members must be knowing it better. 


The third point which was not raised by him but was raised by the hon. Member Shri 
Mishra, was not answered by me earlier. With your permission, Sir, I would like to give a 
reply thereto. He had asked whether he was going to be inducted into the Cabinet. This 
has been responded to by Shn 1.1 Krishnamachari himself and it has appeared in the 
newspapers too. 


mK a a aE अर ae ae af 


The first thing he asked is whether I had sent any person to meet Shri T.T. 
Krishnamchari or talked to him on phone***. Certainly, I had talked with him on phone, 
but it was not related to any official work. It was about something else. 


ae aR a मंध ak अर ae ae ae 


It might be anything but it was certainly not connected with any official work. 


Secondly, none took a file to him and thus the question of making any noting on the 
file does not arise at all. Shri Bakshi has neither written any note in the file nor any where 
else. 


अर मर ak मं मंद मं ae ok ak 


* Replying to Shri Loknath Misra’s remarks, “there seems to be a little contradiction between the main statement 
made by the hon. Prime Minister and the subsequent replies given to the questions. She said that the officers went 
“with my approval”. Subsequently she says that they went on their own on acourtesy call or a social call, whatever 
it is.” 

** Replying to Shri Rajnarain who wanted to know whether the meeting between the officers of the Finance Department 
and Shri T.T. Krishnamachari, which had caused panic in the share markets of Bombay and Calcutta, was held 
with approval of the Prime Minister. 

*** Replying to. Shri Niranjan Verma who wanted to know ({) whether the Prime Minister had called Shri 1.1. 
Krishnamachari by sending someone or by ringing him up; (ii) whether persons accompanying Shri Bakshi took 
down any notes or carried any file with them; and (iii) whether the officers who called on Shri T.T. Krishnamachari 
were connected with the preparation of the Budget. 


995 


Others had not written any note, “but when this discussion took place in the other — 
- House, he was indeed asked to note down roughly all those points, which he remembered. [em 
Therefore, he just wrote the points, and not any note to assist me. = 


कं ae ae मंध्क ak eee oti ौण 


I have no knowledge about it, but I can only say, and Shri Lok Nath Mishra might be [ae 
knowing it, that whenever someone calls on me and put forward any suggestion, I often fa 
note down a few things. **Hence, I cannot say whether something was noted down there 
on the pad or not but I think that nothing had been noted. The suggestions put forward by 
him, such as the suggestions pertaining to rural development, needed to be looked into 
deeply. May be, he had noted it for his memory. As such there was nothing in it to note in 
the files. 


The third point raised was regarding the Budget, to which I have already replied. It is 
not the appropriate time to consider the taxation proposals. I would like to reiterate that it 
was not at all discussed. Just general points were discussed. He gave some suggestions as 
to what type of development of villages should be made or follow-up action should be 
taken, which are not concerned with the Budget at all. 


कं मं मे aK he मु मे मेष ah 


I think the hon. Member is mistaken because whatever Shn Krishnamachani’s other 
faults—lI am not here to discuss whether he was a conservative or not; I leave that to the 
hon. Member—he was in favour of bank nationalisation even when he was Finance 
Minister.*** He had advocated it then, I also want to clarify another point. I have said it 
repeatedly but I do not know whether people do not like to listen or they do not hear. 
Nobody want to consult Shn Krishnamachari. He wished to express certain views, and 
we have that much courtesy and politeness in us to listen to the views of other people, 
including Shri Bhupesh Gupta when he comes to give a lecture either here in the House 
or outside the House. 


* Replying to Shri Niranjan Verma’s question, “what about others 7” 
** Shri Niranjan Verma wanted to know whether the note was written before or after the discussion in the Lok Sabha. 


*** Shri K.P. Sobramania Menon had described Shri Krishnamachari as “an inveterate enemy of nationalisation of 
banks” and wanted to know about the ideas given by him in regard to the nationalisation of banks. 


Earthquake in Gujarat* 


Sir, we are all greatly distressed over the damage to life and property caused by the 
earthquake in Gujarat on Monday. My colleague, Shri D.R. Chavan has already made a 
statement on the subject in the House. 


According to the report received from the State Government. In Broach and surrounding 
villages 1 man, 6 women and 16 children have lost their lives and 144 persons have been 
admitted to hospital, mostly with grievous injuries. Between 150 to 175 houses have either 
collapsed or have become unfit for further habitation and another 2000 to 2500 have been 
partially damaged. 


The State Government rushed medical teams from Surat and Baroda, and granted 
immediate cash relief to the families of the affected persons. They have informed us that 
other relief measures are also being taken up. 


We are in touch with the State Government and are awaiting further details. Yesterday, 
a token grant of Rs. 51,000/- from the Prime Minister’s National Relief fund has been 
made to the State Government for immediate relief. 


As my colleague Shri D.R. Chavan has said, a detailed study of the earthquake will be 
carried out. The head of the seismological organisation, a senior Engineer of the Central 
Water and Power Commission and officers of the Geological Survey are being deputed 
for the purpose. 


We send our sympathies to the Government and people of Gujarat especially to those 
families who have been affected by this disaster. 


* Statement regarding the Earthquake in Gujarat, L.S. Deb., 20 March, 1970, cc. 277-78. 


Railway Workers’ Strike* 


Mr. Speaker, Sir, it is a matter of deep regret that the Opposition leaders should have 
thought it fit to bring in the President’s name into this controversy. There is no question 
of our going against the President’s advice or anything like that. But, you, Sir, and the 
hon. House are well aware of the constitutional situation. The President’s advice and 
suggestions are always given the most earnest and most respectful consideration by the 
Government. But the responsibility to this House is that of the Council of Ministers. 
Therefore, it is very unfair to bring the President’s name into any such matter. 
(Interruptions). The House 1s also aware of the constitutional relationship that exists under 
our Constitution between the President and the Council of Ministers. We should be... 
(Interruptions). If you want me to speak, then they should all sit down. Either they want 
me to speak or, if they want to speak, it is for you to decide. 


I would request the hon. Members to read the Constitution and take legal advice on it. 
I am stating the position as I understand it and as we have understood it all these years 
since this Parliament has been in existence. It would be dangerous to set new precedents 
at this stage. Another point I wish to make is that on all important matters, decisions are 
taken by the Cabinet and not by individual Ministers. 


I have neither met Mr. Qureshi nor seen or read his statement. But I have heard hon. 
Member, Indrajit Gupta read it out and I do not think there is any real discrepancy between 
the two. We have stated our stand clearly in this House that we are not for victimisation. 
However, not only in the case of railways but in other spheres also sometimes injustice 
does take place at the lower level but if our attention is drawn to such cases, we shall look 
into them. One case has been mentioned and certainly the Railway Minister and the 
Ministry should look into it. There may be some other cases in which mistakes have been 
made. This does not go against our general policy which is to look after the interests of 
the workers. In this matter also our policy has been stated by me at the time of no- 
confidence motion and by the Railway Minister on several occasions. There have been 
other occasions before and afterwards when we had stated very clearly that we do not want 
to indulge in any victimisation. We do not want any innocent people to suffer. The Minister 
has already stated that a very large number of people have already been released. 


HK कं ae ak मं i मं 


* Participating in the debate on the Supplementary Demands for Grants (Railways), 1974-75, L.S. Deb., 21 August, 
1974, cc. 219-23. 


You may have some different figures, but this is what our report tells us*. While the 
strike was on, we had the same kind of shouting from the opposite side, telling us that the 
strike was total. A large number of people did go on strike, but that large number was a 
small number in comparison with those who did not go on strike. 


eh मर ek मर ae ah a 


Sir, hon. Members opposite have not helped the cause of railway workers by urging 
them to go on strike. Today, they are not helping them in any way by shouting and by the 
manner in which they are behaving in the House. 


Mee मर eK a mk मं 


Our policy is quite clear as it has been enunciated by the Railway Minister and his 
colleague Shr Qureshi... 


Hohe मर ake ak af ak ae ak 


We are viewing with great sympathy and consideration the cases of all railway workers. 
If there are any cases of victimisation, I hope they will be very urgently and with great 
seriousness looked into—(Interruptions) 


a ak ak ae ae ok ae oe थे 


Whatever there are**. I have to say that. You may be convinced. I am not convinced. 
Therefore, I have used the world ‘if’. If there are any such cases, they should be looked 
into with great seriousness and with sympathy. We want to bring the situation back to 
normal as soon as possible. I fully agree with those Members who say that it is a human 
problem. I am very conscious of the human problem and that is our interest in it. I am 
sorry to say that the hon. Members opposite as well as some of their colleagues outside 
are constantly trying to make a political issue of it***. 


* Replying to Shri Samar Guha who said, “No”. 
** Responding to a Member's question, “If there are ?” 
*** A speech containing some similar points was made by the Prime Minister, Smt. Indira Gandhi, in Rajya Sabha 
also. (R.S. Deb:, 21 August, 1974, cc. 189-91.) 


Elections in Gujarat* 


Mr., Speaker Sir, the House is aware that over the week end, Shri Morarji Desai, one 
of our distinguished Members, has broken his fast. 


The earlier decision to hold elections in Gujarat only after the end of the monsoon 


was because of the severe drought conditions existing at present in large parts of the State 
and was also in keeping with the accepted convention in the country that General Elections 
are not held at the height of summer or during the rains in order to minimise inconvenience oe 
to the people in the exercise of their franchise. Se 
This decision was not taken lightly or with any political motivation. No question of : . 
principle or policy was involved here apart from what we thought was the best for the Oe 
people of Gujarat. We did not want to do anything against their interests. aes 
The Government of Gujarat is putting in a tremendous effort to alleviate the hardships oR 
of the drought affected areas. We genuinely felt that elections now would divert the attention ce 
of the Administration and the people from their concentration on this urgent task and OS 
necessitate the redeployment of personnel for election work. ae 
tk Hk a otek . . 
This could not be in the interest of the people of Gujarat where large numbers of people - 
are on the move, either working on relief projects or taking their cattle to other districts. = 


Even drinking water has to be transported over long distances. 


I have never stood on prestige. However, I do feel that fasts of this nature are unjustified 
and constitute an irrational form of political pressure. Many friends have drawn attention 
to the fact that Shr. Morarji Desai himself was forthnght in expressing similar views in 
the past. 


I believe a rumour was spread that we might put off elections. There was no truth in 
this. Our motives were being misrepresented and our anxieties misunderstood, I had clearly 
told Shri Morarji Desai, and it had also been stated in Parliament, that elections would be 
held as soon as possible after the monsoons and that the process would begin in September. 
If the rains ended sooner, we could have advanced the date of the elections. Thus the issue 
at stake was only three or four months. 


me ae मर ME HK मं: Hm कं 


* Statement regarding Elections in Gujarat, LS. Deb., 15 April, 1975, cc. 325-28. 


1000 


Frankly, this small time lag hardly seemed an adequate reason for such a serious step 
as the Fast. 


However, Shri Morarji Desai did undertake his fast. Medical reports were disquieting. 
The merits of the case recorded into the background and the prime consideration for us 
became that of saving Shri Morarji Desai’s life. We did not want him to die. So my 
colleagues and I decided to ask the Election Commission to hold elections in Gujarat around 
the 7th of June, thus meeting Shri Desai’s main point... 


Hee ak a a और aK He aK 


The exact date will, of course, be fixed by the Election Commission. The summer 
conditions will, no doubt, impose hardship on the people at various stages of the election 
process, but we hope that the people of Gujarat will appreciate the underlying reasons for 
holding the elections earlier. 


In my correspondence with Shn Desai, two other questions also figure—the Emergency 
and the Maintenance of Internal Security Act. 


Recent international trends have been far from reassuring. There 1s feverish military 
build-up in and around our region. 


afc fe मर ak fc akc aie 2c मे 


The threat to our borders is not only on our land frontier but also along our extensive 
sea coast. The revocation of Emergency at such a time will seriously affect national security. 


We और He he ae ak ak ae 


The purpose of the Maintenance of Internal Security Act is also to strengthen the 
nation’s hands in dealing with anti-social and anti-national elements. The objective of the 
Maintenance of Internal Security Act has never been to curtail any legitimate political 
activity. 


afc 2fe मं me a ate 3 भर 
If there are apprehensions or allegations of the misuse of the Maintenance of Internal 


Security Act, it will naturally be our responsibility to examine such complaints in 
consultation with the appropriate State Governments.* 


* Responding to Shri Shyamnandan Misbra’s remark, ‘You have put thousands of political workers in prison”. 


1001 


NAME INDEX 


A 


Abdullah, Sheikh Mohammad, 143, 144, 573, 574, 
691-706, 804 

Abraham, Abu, 126 

Adarkar, B.N. 373 

Advani, L.K., 574, 595 fn, 724fn, 744, 745 

Agnew, Spiro, 875 fn. 

Ahmed F.A, 821 

Ajnoha, Gurdial Singh, 738 

Alva, Violet, 968 & fn. 

Ambedkar, B.R. 569 

Amirthalingam, G., 842 

Antani, B.N., 833 

Anthony, Frnak, 323, 541, 552, 553 fn, 686, 687, 819 

Antulay, A.R., 349 


Bagri, Mani Ram, 742 fn 

Bahadur, Harikesh, 362 

Bakula, Kushak, 699 

Banerjee S.M., 20, 27, 178 fn, 293 fn, 300, 495 fn, 
803 fn, 895 fn, 896 fn 

Banerji, Mukul, 610 

Barua, Hem, 270 fn, 273 fn, 302 fn, 669 fn, 670, 780, 

783, 865 fn, 866 fn, 932, 934, 936 fn, 938 & fn 

Basu, Chitta, 794 fn, 795 fn, 798 fn, 910 fn, 

Basupal, Pannalal, 641 fn 

Beg, Mirza Afzal, 691, 692 

Bhagat, B.R., 605, 610, 837, 960 & fn 

Bhandari, Sundar Singh, 535 

Bhargava, MP, 454, 836 fn 

Bhattacharjee, Sourendra, 921 fn 

Bhattacharya, Dinen, 612 fn 

Bhave, Vinoba, 585 

Bhutto, Z.A., 695, 701, 818, 819, 820, 825, 829 

Boro Debu Ram, 713 

Boro, Habib Ram, 713 

Bose, Maitreyee 439 


Bose, Subhash Chandra 63, 975 

Bosu, Joytirmoy, 88 fn, 89, 105, 284, 325 fn, 333, 
345 fn, 347 fn, 603, 605 fn, 615 

Brezhnev, Leonid Ilyich, 759, 912 & fn, 913, 914, 917 


Cc 
Chagla, M.C., 36 
Chakraborty, Satyasadhan, 222fn, 243 fn, 361, 739, 
Chandra Shekhar, 422 fn 
Channing, William, 546 
Charan Singh, 187 
Chaterjee, A.P., 407, 411 fn, 479 fn, 523, 595 fn, 757, 
904 & fn, 906 
Chatterji, N.C., 801 
Chaudhuri, Tridib, 175-6 
Chaurasia, V.M., 761 fn 
Chavan, D.R., 997, 
Chavan, Y.B., 183, 289 fn, 528, 579 fn, 821 
Chawra, K:.S., 643, 644 fn, 646 fn 
Chinai, Babubhai, 532, 903 


D 

Damani, S.R., 464 

Dandavate, Madhu, 185 fn, 187, 356, 361, 365, 367 fn, 
610, 624 fn, 625 fn, 650, 698 fn, 746 fn, 747 fn, 844 

Dange, S.A., 277 

Das, Banka Behari, 421 fn. 

Das, Bipinpal, 477 fn. 

Das, Priya Ranjan, 344 

Daschowdhury, B.K., 803 fn. 

Deo, P.K., 981 

Deoras, 716 

Desai, C.C., 985 fn, 986 fn 

Desai, Kantilal, 987, 988 

Desai, Morarji, 286, 289, 528, 529, 830, 987 fn, 988, 
1000, 1001 

Dhabe, Shridhar Wasudeo, 921 fn 

Dhar D.P., 122 

Dharai, M.M., 379, 579 fn, 596 fn, 834 fn, 947 fn 

Dhawan, Satish, 512 


1005 


Dhillon, G.S., 955 & fn, 956 fn, 959 & fn, 961 Gupta, Priya, 975 fn 
Dhulap, K.N., 694 fn Gurupadaswamy MS., 79, 450 & fn, 745 fn, 898 ee 
~ DPoulatram, Jairamdas, 970 
Dubcek, 866, 869 H 
Dutt, VP, 693, 694, 824, 827 न : 
Dwivedy, Surendranath, 308, 388 & fn, 466, 987, _ Fialder, Krishna Chandra, 733 fn 
989 fn, 980 & fn, 991 Harriman, Averell, 751 
Hathi, Jaisukhlal, 968 & fn 
E Haq, Zia-ul, 194 
Hejmadi, VS., 524 
Entzam, Nasrollah, 800 Hidayatullah, M. 963 & fn, 971 
Hitler, 369 
F Ho Chi Minh, 344, 778 
Fernandes, George, 299, 658 & fn, 990 fn rrounes, Juaties 2/0 
lix Holt, Harold, 769 
eraniturter 101१, Humphrey, HH. 751, 752 
Franklin, Benjamin, 928 ete लक काल 


G 


Gaekwad, Fatehsinghrao, 67 

Gajendragadkar, 989 fn 

Gandhi, Mahatma, 60, 61, 63, 158, 159, 258, 572, 654, 
696, 793, 861, 871, 916, 918, 966, 917, 975 

Gaulle, De, 753 

Gayatri Devi, 67, 175 

George, A.C., 69 

Ghatak, Ritwik, 61 

Ghosh, Bibha, 890 fn. 

Ghose, Niren, 111, 128 & fn, 129 fn, 422 fn, 535 & fn, 
799 fn, 851 

Giri, $.B., 107 fn 

Giri, V.V., 954 & fn 

Gokhale, H.R., 543 

Goldsmith, Liver, 488 

Gopalan, A.K., 269 fn. & 983 fn 

Goray, N.G., 124 & fn, 133, 878 fn 

Goswami, Dinesh, 717 & fn, 724 fn 

Guha, Phulrenu, 652 

Guha, Samar, 277, 283, 284, 307, 496 fn, 501 fn, 
502 fn, 506, 554, 555, 613 fn, 858 fn, 664,858, 
999 fn 

Gujral, I.K., 946 

Gupta, Bhupesh, 12, 34 fn, 134, 157, 406, 412, 
413 & fn, 414 fn, 415 fn, 535, 550, 580, 581, 
611 fn, 620, 707, 752 fn, 756 fn, 798 & fn, 942, 943, 
945 fn, 996 

Gupta, Indrajit, 93 fn, 176, 177 fn, 185 fn, 195 fn, 
196 fn, 257, 262 fn, 269 fn, 325 fn, 328 fn, 335, 338, 
488, 612 & fn, 732 & fn, 733 fn, 736 fn, 740 fn, 998 

Gupta, Kanwar Lal, 63 fn, 299, 670 fn., 856 fn, 857 fn, 
991 & fn, 992 


Husain, Zakir, 965 & fn., 966, 967 
Husain, Syed, 905 


Islam, Nazrul Syed, 908 fn 
lyer Alladi Krishnaswami 555 


J 


Jagjivan Ram, 191, 314, 343, 821 

Jain, A.P., 454 

Jakhar, Bal Ram, 962 & fn.. 

James, Dhlamini, 850, 851 

Jayewardene, H.W., 839, 840, 842, 843, 844, 845, 846 
Jha, Bhogendra, 337, 602 fn 

Jha, L.K., 766 

Jha, Shiv Chandra, 517 fn, 915 

Johnson, Lyndon, 751, 753, 754, 766, 778 

Joshi, Subhadra, 607 


K 


Kachwai, Hukam Chand, 647’. fn, 817, 819 fn, 821 fn 
Kamath, Hari Vishnu, 495 fn, 975 & fn. 976 fn 
Kandappan, $,385 fn, 391 

Kanthamma, Lakshmi, 610 

Kaul, M.N., 449 

Kaul, Sheila, 610 

Kesri, Sita Ram, 827 

Khadilkar, R.K., 712 

Khan, Akbar Ali, 36, 876 fn 

Khan, Ayub, 790 fn, 796, 803 

Khan, Yahya, 806, 898, 903, 905 

Khaparde, Saroj, 201 


1006 ° 


Khobaragade, B.D., 421 

Kidwai, Mohsina, 350 

Kissinger, Henry, 796, 797, 798 & fn., 799, 900 

Kosygin, 753, 755, 759 

Kripalani, Acharya, 61, 581 

Krishan Kant, 380 fn, 412 

Krishnamachari, T.T. 991 & fn., 992, 993 & fn, 
994 & fn, 995 & fn, 996 

Krishnamoorthi, V., 785 

Kulkarni, A.G., 724 fn, 593 fn 

Kumaramangalam, Mohan, 544 

Kundu, S., 39 fn 

Kurian, K. Mathew, 162 fn, 876fn 


L 
Lagergren, Gunnar, 800 
Lakshmanan, G, 964 & fn 
Laldenga, 234 
Lawrence, M.M, 357 fn 
Limaye, Madhu, 275 fn, 285, 336, 505, 837, 838, 988 


Lohia, Rammanohar, 277, 767, 953 fn 
Lokur, B.N, 801 


M 


Madhok, Bal Raj, 282 fn, 291, 298 fn, 302, 764 fn, 
766, 773 fn, 774 fn, 775 fn. 

Mahavir, Bhai, 406, 421, 448, 450, 547, 593 fn, 
822 fn, 824, 829, 903 

Mandal, B.N., 893 

Mani, A.D., 422 fn. 596 fn, 676 fn, 943, 945, 
947 tn, 948 

Maniben, Kumari, 174 

Manoharan, K., 542, 764 

Manubhai, 985 

Mariswamy, S.S., 163, 164 

Masani, M.R., 21, 763, 765, 766, 774, 777 fn, 
778, 784, 865 fn, 987 

Mathur, Harish Chandra, 836 

Mavalankar, P.G., 342 fn 

Mayathevar, K., 848 fn 

Mehta, Asok, 303, 439 

Mehta, Madhu, 338 

Mehta, Om, 164, 704, 705 

Menon, Balachandra, 32 

Menon, K.P. Subramania, 877 fn, 966 fn 

Menon, Krishna, 72, 556 

Mhiambo, Victor, 850, 851 

Mirdha, R.N., 844 

Mishra, Lalit Narain, 142, 164 


Misra, Loknath, 420, 539, 831, 995 fn, 996 

Mishra, Shyamnandan, 47 fn, 69, 100 fn, 102 fn, 
105 fn, 108 fn, 317, 532, 543, 650 

Misra, S.D., 824, 828 

Mitterand, Francois, 917 

Mody, Pillo, 90 fn, 101 fn, 106 fn, 149 fn, 150 fn, 
203, 204, 226 fn, 295 fn, 303, 328 fn, 329 fn, 
331, 556 fn, 582 fn, 607, 699 fn, 857 fn, 858 fn 

Mukerjee, Ajoy, 284, 795 fn. 

Mukerjee, H.N., 21, 293, 314, 505, 664 

Mukherjee, Pranab, 549, 828, 903 

Mukherjee, Samar, 190, 191 fn, 192 fn, 196 

Mukhopadhyay, Purabi, 651, 914 

Muniswamy, N.R., 593 fn, 835 fn 

Munshi, PR., 74 

Murahari, Godey, 420, 799 


N 


Naidu, Chengalraya, 467 fn 

Nair, Vasudevan, 272 fn, 386, 983 fn 
Nambiar, 386 

Namboodiripad, E.M.S., 387 
Nanda, Gulzarilal, 982 & fn 983 & fn 
Narain, Sheo, 637 

Narasimha Rao, P.V., 839 

Narayan, Jayaprakash, 585 

Nasser, Gamal Abdul, 758, 761 fn 
Nath, Shambhu, 644 fn 


Nayar, Sushila, 614 
Ne Win, 873 
Nehru, Jawaharlal, 63, 158, 184, 363, 569, 572, 791 
Niazi, A.A.K., 812 
Nixon Richard, 900 
O 
Oraon, Kartik, 640 
P 


Padhi, P.C., 524 

Pai, Nath, 296, 393, 541, 547, 792, 930, 931 & fn, 933 
Palkhiwala, N.A., 801 

Pandey, Krishna Chander, 515, fn 

Pant, K.C., 675, 710 & fn 711, 713, 714 

Paranjapye, Shakuntala, 412, 757 

Parikh, Ramial, 159, 164 

Parthasarathi, G, 486, 843, 848 

Parthasarathy, R.T., 595 fn 


1007 


Fr 


Paswan, Ram Vilas, 657 fn 
Patel, Chimanbhai, 130 
Patel, Dahyabhai, 49, 408, 756 fn 
Patel, H.M., 315, 318, 543 | 
Patel, Pashabhai, 291 fn 
Patel, Sardar, 730 

Patel, Vallab Bhai, 533 
Patil, S.K, 59 

Prasad, K.L.N., 593 fn 
Prasad, Rajendra, 572 
Prasad, Sankata, 635 fn 
Premadasa, 845 
Pushpaben, Smt., 478 


Q 
Qasim, Syed Mir, 144, 691 


Qureshi, Mohd. Shaffi, 998 


R 


Radhkrishnan, S., 276 

Rahman, Sheikh Mujibur, 712, 880 fn, 895 & fn, 
896 fn, 897 fn, 898, 900, 905, 907, 908, 909, 910 

Rai, Sahodara Bai, 642 fn, 646 fn 

Raju, V.B., 688 

Ram Dhan, 616 fn, 617 fn 

Ramaiah, Raghu, 685, 686 

Ramamurthi, 712 fn, 724 fn, 921 fn, 922 

Ramgoolam, Shewoorsagar, 769 

Ranga, Prof. N.G., 46 & fn, 59, 61, 281, 293 fn, 
391, 392, 393, 865 fn, 868 fn, 983 fn 

Raj Narayan, 580, 995 fn 

Ranjan, Priya, 325 

Rao, Bhaskar, 744, 747 

Rao, Jagannatha, 977 

Rao, K.L., 984 

Rao, N.T.Rama, 744, 745, 746 fn, 747, 748 

Rao, Shiva, 569 

Rao, V.K.R.V., 395, 403, 412 

Ratu, K.K.T. Mara, 769 

Rau, B.N., 569 

Ray, Maya, 312 

Ray, Rabi, 584 fn, 992 fn 

Ray, Siddhartha Shankar, 541, 607, 678 

Reagan, Ronald, 917 

Reddy B.N., 336, 682 fn 

Reddy, Mulka Govinda, 35, 761 fn, 993 fn, 994 fn 

Reddy, N. Sanjiva, 953 & fn 

Reddy, Yashoda, 435, 937 


Roy, Amar Pradhan, 223 fn 
Roy, Kalyan, 893 fn, 919 


Ruthnaswamy, M. 903, 904 


S 


Saleem, Yunus, 704 

Sarabhai, Mridula, 699 
Sarabhai, Vikram, 503 

Sarkar, Shakti Kumar 640 fn 
Sarkaria, R.S., 724 

Satpathy, Nandini, 977 
Schamnad Hamid Ali, 76 fn 
Scindia, Vijaya Raje, 175 

Scott, Michael, 666 

Sengupta, D.L., 423, 662 fn 
Sethi, P.C., 224 fn, 718 fn, 991 
Sezhiyan, Era, 724 fn 

Shadreck Duly, 850, 851 

Shah, Shantilal, 462, 464, 465 
Shahi, Agha, 486 

Shakdher, S.L., 959 & fn 
Shamim, S.A., 106 fn, 328 
Sharan, Ganga, 76, 117, 547 
Sharma, Anant Prasad, 420 
Sharma, D.C., 284 

Sharma, Hari Prasad, 880 fn 
Sharma, Shanker Dayal, 707 
Shastri, Lal Bahadur, 290, 304, 766, 792, 800 
Shastri, Prakash Vir, 287, 788, 936 
Shastri, Raghubir Singh, 667 fn 
Shastri, Ramavatar, 257, 258 fn, 350 
Shawl, Gulam, Mohi-ud-din, 921 fn - 
Shekharan, Chandra, 548 
Sherwani, Maqbool, 704 

Shiv Shanker, 195 

Shivaji, 589, 590 

Shivappa, N., 990 fn 

Sihanouk, Noroddm, 779 
Singh, Anoop, 580 

Singh, Baba Santa, 741 

Singh, Bhanu Pratap, 203 
Singh, D.P., 829 

Singh, Giriraj Saran, 301 
Singh, Jagpal, 844 

Singh, Jagjit, 373 

Singh, Kameshwar, 670 fn 
Singh, Karan, 699, 700, 937 
Singh, Karni, 88, 315 

Singh, L.P., 373 


1008 


Singh, Ram Subhag, 59, 992 fn V 


Singh, Raj Deo, 466 
Singh, Sardar Swaran, 569, 691, 699, 701, 759, Vajpayee, Atal Bihari, 63 & fn, 65 fn, 66, 68, 
815, 821, 822, 825 73, 103 fn, 184fn, 186, 222, 257fn, 263, 
" Singh, Triloki, 799 fn 264fn, 281fn, 293, 316, 320, 359, 369, 554, 556, ae 
Singh, TN,, 969 589, 590fn, 591fn, 618, 6239, 628fn, 657fn, fae 
aid ae 658, 722, 737, 816 ee 
a, Awadheshwar, 876 fn Sane 
inh ; Varma, Ravindra, 184 mes 
Sinha, Ramdulari, 939 ae 
Venkataraman, R., 361, 489 fn ees 
4480३ बलि कह ee Venkatasubbaiah 7, 72701 
Sondhi, M.L., 296, 773, 774, 775, 776, 778, 779, ाशांश, 9956, 9966 
782, 784 fn, 857 fn, 867 fn Soe ee eee ee 


Swamy, Subramaniam, 252 fn, 258 fn, 259 fn, Vidyalankar, 933, 934 
260 fn, 263 fn, 613 fn, 617 fn, 845 fn, 846 fn, _Villalan, Tillai, 549 


848 fn Viswanatham, Tenneti, 447 
Swell, G.G., 862 fn, 957 & fn Vishwanathan, G., 108, 508, 773 & fn 
Swu, Isak, 662 fn 
WwW 
T 
Wells, H.G., 960 
Tapuriah, S.K., 64 fn, 440 fn 
Tariq, A.M., 797 fn X 
Tendulkar, 970 
Thakhore J.M 801 Xavier, S. 382 & fn 


Thant, U., 25, 755, 769, 896, 897 fn 


Tito, Josip Broz, 758, 761 fn Y 
Tiwari, K.N., 803 fn Yadav, Chandrajit, 18961, 304, 447, 74111 
Tyagi, Mahavir, 596 fn, 676 fn, 877 fn Yadav. Sharad, 153 
Tyagi, Om Prakash, 63, 301, 668 fn, 985 fn 
Z 


U 


Zavier, S. 382 & fn 
Umanath, 782 


Unnikrishnan, K.P., 196 fn, 748 fn 


Upendra, Parvathaneni, 746 fn 
Urs, Devraj, 745 


1009 


SUBJECT INDEX 


A 


Acquired Territories Merger Act, 1960, 794 
Adivasis, 640 
Adjournment Motion, 623-630 
Administrative Reforms Commission, 22, 199, 
279, 305 
Adoption of children, 479 
Afghanistan, 193, 194, 208 
— problems in, 208 
Africa, 763, 780, 781, 826 
— peaceful developments 826 
Afro-Asian Group, 755 
Agitations, 220, 221 
— Assam, 220 
— Gujarat, 221 
Agriculture, 29, 39, 65, 102, 151, 181, 216, 252, 253, 274, 
287, 309, 377, 426, 466, 
— loans, 309 
— modernisation 426 
— prices, 151 
— production, 102, 377 
— wealth tax, 466 
— yields, 287 
Agriculture and industry, 389, 390 
Air Force, 484, 638 
Air India, 608 
Akali Dal, 261, 623, 626, 728, 730, 738, 741 
Aligarh Muslim University, 117, 614 
All India Gurdwara Act, 625 
All India Radio, 494 
All India Services, 44, 681 
Ananda Marg, 567 
Anandpur Sahib Resolution, 737 
Andhra Pradesh, 601, 671, 673, 680, 682, 687, 688, 690 
Annual Plan, 377, 378 


— 1966-67, 377 

— 1967-69, 378 
Antarctica 

— Dakshin Gangotri, 516 
Anti-conversion Bill, 616 


Anti-Hindi Policy, 718 


Apollo-13, 500 
Apple 
— launching of, 514 
Archaeological monuments, 454 
— survey, 706 
Armed Forces, 45, 484, 638 
Armistice Commission, 786 
Asia, 763, 769, 780 
— South Asia, 768 
— South-east Asia, 771, 779, 876, 888 
— South-west Asia, 914 
— West Asia, 770, 775, 786 
Assam, 109, 196, 200, 201, 626, 666, 670, 675, 
677, 707, 709, 710, 720, 721 2 
— agitation in, 709, 710 a 
— AASU, 711, 713, 714, 717 
— elections in, 721 i 
— Gana Sangram Parishad, 711 oe 
— political situation, 196, 707, 709 52022 
— Voters’ list, 720 2 ५ 
Assistance to States, 444 
Astronauts, 500 
Atomic energy, 496 . 
— power stations, 363, 497, 504 ४ 
Atomic Energy Commission, 501, 503 ५ 
Atrocities on Scheduled Castes, 186, 201, 366 ८ 
Australia, 768, 769 22224 


Backward classes, 643 
Bangla Sahib Gurudwara, 727 
Bangladesh, 89, 95, 122, 157, 165, 607, 806, 
812, 814, 820, 825, 828, 888, 889, 
892,893, 907, 908, 909. 
— creation of, 711 
— crisis in, 83 
— deportation to, 712 
— freedom movement in, 895 
— long sufferings in, 896, 987, 898, 899, 
900, 901, 902, 903, 904, 905, 906 
— recognition to, 407 & fn 
— refugees from, 479, 891 
— situation in, 103 


1010 


— struggle of, 887 
— tragedy in, 884 
[Also sea under East Bengal] 

Bangladesh war, 200, 630 . 

— prisoners of, 105 
Bank Nationalisation, 256, 417 
Banking Companies (Acquisition and Transfer of 
Undertakings) Ordinance, 1969, 424 
Banking Laws (Amendment) Act, 1968, 419 
Banking Regulation Act, 424 
Banks, 

— performance of, 309 

— employees of, 419 
Bhabha Atomic Research Centre, 498 
Bihar, 18, 601 

— agitation, 141 
BJP, 362 
Black money, 337 
Blindings in Bhagalpur, 367 
Bokaro Steel Plant, 

— assistance from USSR, 755 
Border Security, 598 
Border Security Force, 638 
Brain drain, 496 
Brazil, 872 
Budget, 92, 241 

— Centrally sponsored schemes, 427 
Bureaucracy, 174 
Burma, 768 


Cc 


Cabinet 
— appointments Committee of, 982 
Celling Attention, 377-78, 514-15, 539-40, 579-80, 
667-68, 669-70, 707-08, 790-93, 
794-95, 796-99, 802-04, 833-34, 
835-36, 856-58, 875-79, 897-99, 
989-90. 
Cambodia, 769, 875, 878 
Cape of Good Hope, 789 
Capital resources—States share, 41 4 
Caribbean, 780 
Caste system, 116 
— casteism, 186, 643 
— casteism and communalism, 77, 358 
CBI, report about the Licences Case, 563 
CENTO, 763 
Central Laws, 702 
Centre-State relations, 34, 53, 74, 79, 199, 444, 599, 608, 
696, 724 | 
— NDC, 75 


Ceylon, 768, 835, 836, 838 
Chandigarh, division of, 729 
Charitable trusts, 465 
— charitable and religious trusts, 458 
Chilahati, demarcation of, 802, 803 
China, 16, 146, 194, 668, 773, 774, 782, 876, 893 
— a nuclear power, 766 
— admission to U.N., 191, 830 
— democracy in, 169 
— friendship with, 824 
— hostile attitude, 771 
— invasion by, 26, 879 
Christianity, 613 
Citizens Central Council, 638 
Citizenship of India, 588 
Civil service, 60 
Coastal districts, 690 
Code of Criminal Procedure, 564 
Cold war, 192, 195 
Colonialism, 24 
Commission, Eighteen-Nation, 765, 854, 855 
Commission on Centre-State relations, setting 
up of, 724 
Committee on defections, 601 
Committee on defence planning, 483 
Common citizenship, 685 
Commonwealth, 780, 781, 852 
— awards, 937 
Communalism, 244, 248, 260, 294, 296, 587, 589, 
630, 733 
— Communal and caste tension, 219 
— Communal disharmony, 600, 619 
— Communal riots, 613 
— Communal violence, 202, 203 
Communist parties, 82, 530, 551, 606, 775 
Congress party, 18, 35, 87, 93, 112, 140, 141, 142, 
179, 203, 206, 257, 277, 279, 282, 
317, 327, 369, 569, 606, 619, 641, 
on relation with Pakistan, 822 
Constitution, 445, 526, 528, 531, 557, 573, 
687, 689, 692, 693, 694, 697, 698, 
701, 703, 705, 719, 726 
— Constituent Assembly, 554, 568, 
595, 726 
— Constitution Amendment Act, 
1960, 794 
— Constitution (Twenty-fourth 
Amendment) Bill, 1970, 525, 
531, 539, 541, 546, 566 
— Constitution (Twenty-fifth 


Amendment) Bill, 561 


1011 


— Constitution (Twenty-sixth Amend- 
ment) Bill, 1971, 559 

— Constitutional changes, 179 
Cooch Bihar Refugees Association, 795 
Cooley Fund, 756 
Corporate sector, 

— Concession to, 449 

— Corporate taxation, 464 
Corruption, 23, 127, 143, 154, 155, 235, 248, 260, 301 
CPM, 82, 551, 606 
Crime and disorder, 610 
CRP, 598 
CSIR, 454 


Czechoslovakia, 856, 858, 859, 860, 861, 862, 


863, 864, 865, 866, 867, 868, 
869, 870 


D 


Debt relief, 450 
Defections, 601 
Defence, 354, 397, 482, 483, 484, 485, 808, 
810 & fn., 811 
— budget, 482, 483 
— Defence of India _ Bill, 
810 & fn., 811 
— expenditure, 397 
— installations, 354 
— Pakistan issue, 485 
— Research and Development 
Department, 484 
Deforestation, 138 
Delhi Development Authority, 169 
Democracy, 17, 18, 48, 56, 88, 89, 132, 160, 161, 
162, 175, 233, 271, 272, 278, 298, 299, 
543, 563, 566, 587, 606, 615 
Department of Culture, 678 
Detente, 206 
Development outlay in public sector, 451 
(Also see under Public Sector) 
Development Programmes of the public sector, 439 
(Also see under Public Sector) 
Direct taxation, 430, 433 
(Also see under Taxes) 
Directive Principles, 551, 552, 555, 557, 570 
Directorate of Farm and Home Broadcasting, 938 
Disabled servicemen, 638 
Disarmament Commission, 766 
Disparities in income and wealth-reduction of, 409 
Diwakar Enquiry Committee, 928, 935, 947 fn., 948 
D.M.K. Government, 78, 163, 172, 592, 697, 775 


808, 


Drinking water, 20, 365 
Drought, 113, 151, 211,212,240,247, ss 
E 
Earthquake, 
— Himachal Pradesh, 136 


East Bengal, 75, 81 


— crisis in, 910, 911 
— democratic elections in, 880, 883, 886 
[Also see under Bangladesh] 
East Europe, 782 


East Germany, 798, 799 


East Pakistan, 
— Cyclone Victims, 805 
Economic and Social injustices, 648 
Economy, 91, 125, 246-47 
— economic development, 50 
— economic environment, 239 
— economic growth, 27, 52, 451 
— economic self reliance, 69 
ह — inflation, 209, 210, 235 
Education, 31, 78, 137, 582, 636, 678 
— educational structure, 117 
— educational survey, 412 
Election Commission, 67, 128, 304 
Elections, 76, 82, 180, 278, 282, 364, 556, 597, 600 oS 
Electric power, 497 
Electronics, 496 ‘ 
Emergency, 159, 161, 571 
Employment, 41, 114, 170, 616 
— opportunities, 463, 616 
— schemes, 477 
English language, 582 ze 
Environment and forests, 230 
ESMA, 353 
Excise, 463, 467, 469 
exemption limit, 465 
Exports, 41, 94 
— duty on tea, 460 
— Thorium, 498 
Ex-Servicemen, 483 
Europe, 649, 770, 782, 798, 799 
European Economic Community, 902 


F 


Family Planning, 213, 219, 350 
Facism, 158 


1012 


Federalism, 22, 228 
Fifth Five Year Plan, 127, 171, 172 
(Also see under Plans) 
Finance Bill, 1970, 457 
Finance Commission, 23, 54, 75 
Financial institutions, 392, 417 
Financial powers of States, 609 
Five-Point Programme, 568 
Five-Year Plan, 382 
(Also see under Plans) 
Flag hoisting, 619 
Floods, 40 
Food Aid, 428 
Food and drought relief, 20 
Food for Work Programme, 227 
Foodgrains, 91, 112, 188, 217 
— food problem, 122, 123 
Food Policy, 21, 664 
Foreign Aid, 65, 408 
Foreign Exchange, 218 
Foreign Money, 601, 608 
Foreign Policy—India, 36, 87, 104, 206, 213, 22, 
778, 788 
Foreign relations, India, 
— Burma, 873 
— neighbouring countries, 55, 264, 
839, 909 
— Pakistan, 486, 794, 800, 814, 816, 821 
— Soviet Union, 904, 912, 913 
— USA, 753, 756 
[Also see Pakistan, West Pakistan, 
Protocol, Simla Agreement and 
Soviet Union] 
Fourth Five Year Plan, 40, 55, 91, 286, 403, 471, 760 
— resources, outlays and programmes, 
377 
(Also see under plan) 
France, 781 
Freedom of speech, 567 
Fundamental Rights, 545, 551, 557, 570, 692 


G 


Garibi Hatao, 205, 544 

Garo hills, 675 

Gaza, 789 

Geneva Agreement, 752, 757, 760, 779 
Geneva Convention, 812 

General budget, 1970-71, 425 

Geological Survey of India, 20 

Germany, Federal Republic of, 570, 770, 771 
Goa Fertilizer Project, 52 


Gold 
— Gold Control Act, 373 
— gold policy, 373 
— smuggling of, 373 
Golden Temple, 738, 740, 743 
—entrance of army, 736 
— Parikrama, 739, 740 
— terrorism from, 737 
Green revolution, 51 
Gujarat, 657, 658 
elections, 175 
oil exploration, 49 
violence in, 1129 
Gujjars, 700, 705 
Gunn case, 941 


H 


Haji Pir, 765 
Half-an-hour discussion, 493-95, 501-504, 930-33 
Handicapped, 638 
Handloom sector, 461 
Harijans, 320, 620, 621, 633, 642 
(Also see under Scheduled Castes and Schedules 
Tribes) 
Haryana, 623 fn., 626, 627 
Health and Child Welfare Programme, 979 
Heavy industries, 114. (Also see Industry) 
High-powered transmitter, 493 
Hinduism, 613 
Hindu Rashtra, 615 


Hindustan Steel-Central Engineering and Design 
Branch, 442 


Human Rights Commission, 847, 848 


I 


IAS, 521 
ICS, 536 
IMF borrowing, 248 
— loans from, 354, 489 

Imports, 94, 411 
Income-tax Act, 458 
Independence Day, 596 
India, 386, 469, 487, 629 

— secular and socialist, 571 

— unity, 580,734 

(Also see under New India) 

India 2,000, an Indian Journal, 845 
Indian Airlines, 354 


1013 


Indian Enclaves in East Pakistan, 704 
‘Indian heritage, 529 
Indian.Ocean, 193 
Indian ‘Red Cross, 849 
Indian Satellite Launch Veliicle SLV-3, 513 
(Also see under Setellite) 
Indian Satellite Rohini RS-I, 513 
Indian Space Research Organisation, 512 
Indirect taxation, 430, 433-43€, 449, 460 
(Also see under Taxes) 
Indo-Pakistan Agreement, 1965, 800 
Indo-Pak Conflict of, 1965, 794 
Indo-Pak War, 1971, 814 
(Also see under Foreign relations—India) 
Indo-Soviet Friendship, 912 
Indo-Soviet Treaty, 904 
Indo-US Foundation, 754 
Indravati project, 981 
Indus Development Fund, 790 
Indus Waters Treaty, 790, 791, 792 
Industrial sector, 353 
— climate, 103 
— development, 86 
— heavy industry, 114 
— industrial licences, 70 
— labour, 218 
— licensing policy, 426 
— performance, 217 
— production, 187 
— Silk industry, 460 
Inflation, 171, 216, 227, 258, 259, 334, 339, 340, 352, 445 
Insurgency, 670 fn. 
International Atomic Energy Agency, 510 
International Commission for Control and 
Supervision, 752 
International Control Commission, 760, 769, 779, 876, 
878 
International Women’s Year, 649, 652 
Inter-State Council, 724 fn. _ 
Inter-State Water Disputes, 151 
IRDP, 255 
Iran-Iraq Question, 222 
Irrigation, 187, 205 
Islam, 613 
Islamabad, 702 
Israel 
— aggression, 765 
— invasion of Lebanon, 916, 920. 
— recognition of, 773 


Jaffna, 840 

Jaintia hills, 675 

Jama Masjid, 149 

Jamat-i-Tulaba, 621 

Jammu and Kashmir, 139, 691 & fn., 693, 694, 695, 
697, 698, 700, 701, 702, 706 
— Grant of Permit for Resettlement in 

or Permanent Return to the State 
Bill, 1980, 573 

— India’s attitude towards, 761 
— invasion of, 575 
— National Conference, 144 
— principle of self-determination, 796 
— secessionist forces, 735 
— State Constituent Assembly, 697 

Jamshedpur Inquiry Report, 355 

Jan Sangh, 82, 83, 95, 161, 175, 177, 294, 464, 
589, 607, 615, 616, 617, 619, 695, 
774, 828, 829 

Janata Party, 197, 198, 200, 205, 215, 216, 219, 236, 
350, 362, 617, 619 

Janata Party Government, 625 

Japan, 80, 768 

Judiciary, 197 


K 


Kar Seva, 739, 740, 741 
Katchchativu island, 835, 837 & fn., 838 
Kenya, 833 
Kerala, 19 
— elections, 304 
Khasi, 675 
Killings in Punjab, 261. (Also see Punjab) 
Koyna Dam, 984 
Kutch Award, 292, 800 & fn. 


L 


Labour-relations, 211 
Ladakh, 699, 704 
Land Reforms, 40, 50, 80, 211, 229, 639 
Implementation of 474 
Language, 23, 580 & fn., 581, 612 
— Hindi, 179, 220, 581 
— of states, 580, 583 
Laos, 769 
Latin America, 826 


1014 


Law and Order, 42, 599 

Law Commission, 610 

Leader of Opposition, 58, 83, 92, 124, 196, 201 
League of Red Cross Societies, 847 

Literacy, 41, 553 

Lok Dal, 197, 200 

Lok Dal Government, 362 

Lokpal and Lokayuktas Bill, 602 


M 


Maintenance of Internal Security Act, 154, 810, 100° 

Mandal Commission Report, 244 

Mangla Dam, 790, 791 

Mauritius, 853 

Madras Corporation, 594 

Manipur, 667, 668, 669 fn. 674 & fn. 675, 676 

Maratha Gateway, 705 

Marwari Relief Society, 20 

Marxists, 626 

Meghalaya, 677 
Meghalaya Legislative Assembly, 675 

Members of Legislature, 608 

Members of Opposition, 278, 280, 281, 282, 286 

Members of Parliament, 646 

Ministry of Information and Broadcasting, 493, 927, 
930, 934 

Minorities, 200, 212, 291, 549, 556, 847 

Mixed economy, 473, 490 

Monopolies and Restrictive Trade Practices Act, 71, 
85, 86 

Monopolies and Restrictive Trade Practices Bill, 409 

Monopolies Commission, 944 

Motion, 395, 471, 489, 521, 551, 566, 613, 635, 
641, 651, 657, 666, 701, 732, 768, 
816, 927, 944, 985 

Motion of Thanks on the President’s Address, 11-17, 
18-28, 29-37, 38-46, 47-57, 58-66, 
67-75, 76-81, 82-87, 88-97, 98-110, 
111-121, 122-135, 136-145, 147-156, 
157-170, 171-181, 182-196, 197-208, 
209-214, 215-234, 225-231, 232-238, 
239-245, 246-250, 251-265 

Mukti Bahani, 806, 807, 809, 812, 814, 905, 906, 907 

Mulki Rules, 119, 680, 683, 684, 685, 688, 689 
— Mulki Rules Bill, 1972, 682 fn. 


Muslim League, 626, 695, 703 
N 


N.G.Os, 107, 108 
Nagas, 661, 670 


Nagaland, 206, 661, 666, 667, 669 & fn., 670 
National Conference, 144 
National Development Council, 22, 35, 54, 389, 
644, 684 
National flag, 592, 594, 596, 619 
National income, 366 
National Institute of Mass Communication, 939 
National Integration Council, 33, 60, 212, 221, 
587, 597, 600, 620, 621, 654, 739 
National laboratories, 412 
National merit scholarship, 636 
National Register of, 1951, 717 
National Rural Employment Programme, 228, 
247, 255 
Nationalism, 723 
Nationalisation, 103, 152, 
— of Banks, 79 
Navy, 638 
Nazi rule, 130 
Nehur-Non Agreement, 794 
Nepal, 104, 768 
Nepali, 612 
New Zealand, 768, 769 
Nirankaris, 628 
No-Confidence Motion, 269-76, 277-80, 281-88, 
289-92,293-302, 303-310, 311-21, 
322-30, 331-41, 342-48, 349-60, 361-70 
Non-Alignment, 193, 245, 249, 250 
— definition of, 788, 
— foreign policy, 762 
— Non-aligned Movement, 213, 918 
Non-proliferation Commission, 765 
Non-proliferation Treaty, 854 
Nuclear arms race, 265 
— explosions, China, 498 
— explosion, experiment, 509, 138, 
510, 511 
— non-proliferation treaty, 501 
— technology, 501 
— weapons, 496 


O 


Oceans, 487 

Official language, 584 
Official languages (Amendment) Bill, 
1967, 580fn 

Oil and Natura] Gas Commission, 20 

Opposition, 35, 87, 98, 99, 136, 140, 141, 145, 147, 
157, 162, 164, 167, 168, 176, 180, 192, 
217, 224, 225, 227, 230, 232, 240, 261, 
269, 270, 273, 287, 290, 294, 306, 312, 369 


1015 


— members, 254, 523, 624 
— parties, 554, 566, 644 
— role of 563 


P 


Pakistan, 95, 206, 574, 622, 695, 701, 771, 780, 
803, 806, 819, 820, 825, 826, 855, 881, 882 
— aggression, 377 ह 
— boundary dispute, 290, 291 
— confrontation with India, 815 
— creation of, 263 
— friendly relations, 754 
— illegal occupation of territory, 799 
— invasion by, 83 
— occupation of territory by, 791 
— Pakistan High Commission, 796 
— relations with, 145, 155, 237 
— response to normalization of 
relations, 798 
— settlement of boundary dispute, 802 
(Also see under Foreign Relations) 
Palamau, 19 
PL.O., 917, 918, 920, 921, 922 
PRB Act, 945 
Para-military training, 615, 616 
Parliamentary and Judiciary, 542, 549, 686 
Parliamentary democracy, 147, 307 
Pay Commission, 932, 989, 990 
Peace Observers’ Group, 669 
Peaceful Nuclear Explosions, 1970, 511 
Planning, 228 
— concept of decentralisation, 391 
Planning Commission, 15,22, 40; 242, 275, 286, 
375, 671, 672, 673 
— Chief Ministers Conference, 375, 
— N.D.C.,376 
— recommendations by ARC, 384 
— role of, 382, 387 
— suggestions by ARC, 383 
Plans 
— Fifth five year plan, 127, 171, 172 
— Five year plan, 382 
— Fourth five year plan, 40, 55, 91, 
286, 403, 471, 760, 777 
— Implementation Committee, 672 
— Outlay, 451 
— Sixth five year plan, 227, 234 
— State plans, 471 


Plebiscite Front, 699, 704 
Police Force, 619 
Police Training Committee, 610 
Political defections, 282 
Population, 39 
Poverty, 68, 87, 89, 90, 344, 364, 469, 582 
— poverty line, 365 
President's Rule, 318 
Presidential System, 629 
Press, 178, 363 
— role of, 129 
Press Commission, 927, 947 
— Report, 642, 942, 944 
Press Council, 927, 928, 941, 942, 943 
Bill, 927 fn., 928, 929 
Prevention of Terrorism Act, 840 
Price-level, 139, 204, 265 
— rise, 69, 70 
— stability, 452 
Primary education, 85 
Prime Minister's National Relief Fund, 787, 839 
Princely States, 529, 535, 539 
Princes, 561 
Private Members’ Bills, 574 
Private Sector, 441 
Privy Purses and Privileges, 526, 537, 559, 602 
Production of atomic minerals, 497 
Provincial autonomy, 23 
Public Accounts Committee, 521, 522 
Publications Division, 936 
Public Distribution System, 217, 259, 254 
Public Employment (Requirement as to Residence) 
Act, 1957, 680, 684 
Public Enterprises, 
— internal resources, 428 
— investment in, 410 
— performance of, 126, 441 
Public life, 119 
Public Sector, 206, 211, 218, 235, 405, 407, 471 
— additional resources, 463 
— Development outlay, 451 
— Development programmes, 439 
Public Sector Undertakings, 21, 86, 150, 639 
— food corporation, 411 
— industry, 71 
— MMIC, 411 
— STC, 411 
Public servants, 140 
Punjab, 602, 623 fn. 625 


1016 


— events in, 735 

— killings in, 261 

— situation in, 734 

— violence in, 728 

— Whitepaper on, 732 fn. 741 


Q 


Queen Elizabeth's coronation, 735 
Quit India Movement, 363 


R 


Racialism, 24 

Radcliffe Award, 803 

Railways, 323, 353 

Railway strike, 332, 333 
Ramakrishna Mission, 20 

Rana Pratap Sagar reactor, 504 
Rann of Kutch, 801 

Regional Committee, 686 
Regional imbalances, 31, 391, 404 
Regional language, 580, 583 
Relief work, 100 

Re-organization of Indian science, 507 
Republic Day, 596 

Re-scheduling of debts, 397 
Resolution, 382, 648, 882 
Rhodesia, 62, 780 

Riots, 589 

Rise in Prices, 475 

Round-Table Conference, 840 
Royal Society of Arts, 937 

RSS, 141, 185, 198, 567, 589, 615, 616, 617, 618 
Rural Banks, 173 


— development, 427 
— education, 403, 404 
— savings, 428 
Rural infrastructure, 403, 404 
S 
Salaried tax-payers, 465 
Satellite 
First Indian, 512, 513 
INSAT-I, 514 
Satyagraha, 563 


Scheduled Castes and Schedules Tribes, 146, 186, 201, 

320, 410, 620, 621, 633, 635, 636, 641, 642, 645, 686 
Commissioner’s report; 642. 
reservations, 199 


Science and technology, 137, 219, 299 
SEATO, 763 
Second World War, 369, 887, 920 
Secularism, 587, 613 
Security Council, 775, 786, 787, 854, 866, 867 
Self-reliance, 84, 93, 361, 405, 489 
Shah Commission, 625, 729 
Shillong, 666, 669, 677 
Shiv-Sena, 33, 42, 128, 579 
Short Duration Discussion, 379-81 
Sikkim, 155 
Simla Agreement, 359, 701, 816 fn., 817, 823, 829 
Smuggling of gold, 373 
(Also see under Gold) 
Social justice, 52 
Social Welfare, 678 
Socialism, 90, 103, 104 
Socialist pattern of society, 417 
South African Struggle, 208 
South Amercia, 871, 872 
Southern Rhodesia, 851 
— execution of Africans, 850, 851 
South Yemen, 770, 832, 833 
Sovereignty, 691 
Soviet Union, 95, 194, 368, 594, 720, 774, 780, 844, 854 
— friendly interest, 755 
— friendship with, 824 
(Also see under Foreign Relations) 
Space research, 498 
Special Relief Commissioner, 977, 979 
Sri Lanka, 132, 839, 840, 841, 842, 843, 844, 845, 
846, 847, 848 
— situation in, 842 
— Sri Lankan Freedom Party, 848 
— Sri Lanka Relief Fund, 839 
(Also see under Foreign relations) 
State autonomy, 697, 705 
State Legislature, 692 
States Reorganisation Act, 1956, 672 
States Reorganisation Commission, 59, 687 


— Andhra Pradesh, 120 
— Report, 690 
States, financial powers of, 609 
Steel, 114 
Steel Plants, 61, 455 
— Bokaro, 62 
— location of 455 
— Rourkela, 62 
Suez Canal, 788 


1017 


Supreme Court, 424, 573, 692 
. — role of 65 
Swadeshi, 21, 65, 389, 477 
Swatantra Party, 32, 298, 384, 395, 441, 464, 468, 
548, 551, 607, 774 
Switzerland, 594 


T 


Tamil Nadu, 136, 592, 594, 595, 627, 705, 706 
— drought, 136 
— government, 594, 595 
Tarapur Atomic Power Station, 363 
Tashkent agreement, 780, 827 
Declaration, 754, 755, 759, 761, 771 
Tata जा and steel, 441 
Taxes, 440, 463, 468 
— burden of, 468 
— central duties, 426 
— exemption from 458, 459 
— indirect, 430, 433-36, 449, 460 
— wealth, 459, 466 
Telengana region, 600, 671, 672, 676 fn. 680, 681, 
682, 683, 684, 686, 688 
— Telengana Development 
Committee, 672 
Territorial integrity, 691 
Trade Union activities, 571 
Transitional allowances, 526 
Treaty of Friendship, Cooperation and Peace with 
Bangladesh, 1972, 909 & fn 
Tripura, 674 & fn., 675, 676, 735 
— secessionist forces in, 735 
TV manufacturing industry, 460 
Twenty-point programme, 225, 229, 236, 247, 254, 


365, 368, 568 
U 
U.A.R., 786, 789 
— close cooperation, 758, 760 
U.K., 854 
Parliament, 630 


UNCTAD Conference, Second, 771, 772, 871 

Unemployment, 30, 40, 51, 72, 78, 79, 85, 154, 189, 
— among engineering graduates, 379 
— committee of experts on, 401 

UNESCO, 764, 934, 937 

UNGA Resolution No. 2028, 783 

UNICEF, 20 

UNO 101, 767, 769, 772, 773, 775, 784, 786, 787 


789, 827, 854, 864, 865, 866, 867 
United Press International, 895 
U.N. Fund for Relief and Works Agency, 922 
U.N. Peace-keeping Force, 921 
U.N. Truce Supervision Organisation, 786 
University education, 118 
Untouchability Act, 32 
Urban Development Corporation, 427 
Urdu language, 116 
US.A., 592, 594, 595, 607, 770, 771, 778, 780, 824, 854 
— space agency-500 
U.S. Congress, 754 
— delegation in India-363 


V 


Vietnam, 25, 94, 751, 752, 754, 759, 779, 875, 876 
Violence and crime, 50, 597, 619 
| — against SCs and STs, 234, 284, 348 
— in West Bengal, 128, 621 


Ww 


Wage structure, 326 
Wanchoo Committee’s Report, 404 
War widows, 638 
Warsaw Pact, 856, 859, 860, 864 
Water and Power Commission, 997 
Wealth tax, 459 
West Bengal, 40, 44, 89, 233, 602, 626, 663, 678, 679 
— bandh in 664 fn 
— demonstration in 709 
— elections, 233 
— relations with centre, 44 
West German Delegation, 796 
West Pakistan, 808, 809, 897, 898, 900, 901, 907 
— aggression against Bangladesh, 809 
(Also see under Foreign Relations) 
Women, 213, 249, 610, 648, 651, 652 
— liberation movement, 652 
— offences against, 229, 357 
Workers’ Welfare, 335 
World Bank, 216, 450, 754, 756, 757 


Y 


Yugoslavia, 758, 760 


Zero Hour, 367 


1018 


ial 


PRES etna AAOMRLS टुडे ५० बकक iow rrr 


LOK SABHA SECRETARIAT 


AL ME AR NN eee RE EN pee een EE Py | ae aA ET ९५३०७कनक “नाक कल I ne FRR जे 


JAINCO ART INDIA 


