Hindu Rashtra Darshan 

V D Savarkar 


Maharashtra Prantik Hindusabha, Poona 




Hindu Rashtra Darshan 


Hindu Rashtra Darshan 

1 Presidential Address - Akhil Bharatiya Hindu Mahasabha .... 3 

1.1 19 th Session - at Karnavati - 1937.3 

1.2 20 th Session Nagpur- 1938. 15 

1.3 21 st Session Calcutta-1939.37 

1.4 22 nd Session Madura - 1940. 66 

1.5 23 rd Session Bhagalpur—1941 .93 

1.6 24 th Session Cawnpore - 1942. 105 

Appendix.128 

Statement on Resignation.128 

Long Live The Hindu Mahasabha!‘Long Live Hindudom !!’.129 

Telegraphic message dated 1-8-1944 sent by Veer Savarkar.130 


Page 2 of 130 













Hindu Rashtra Darshan 


1 PRESIDENTIAL ADDRESS - AKHIL BHARATIYA HINDU 
MAHASABHA 


1.1 19 th Session - at Karnavati -1937 

(* Karnavati = Ahmedabad) 

Ladies and Gentlemen, 

I thank you most cordially for the trust you have placed in me in calling upon me to 
preside on this 19th Session of the Hindu Mahasabha, I don't take it so much as an honour 
bestowed upon me by my nation for service rendered in the past as a command to dedicate 
whatever strength us still left in me to the Sacred Cause of defending Hindudom and 
Hindustan- 

our common Motherland and our common Holyland, and pressing on the fight for our 
National Freedom. So far as the Hindus are concerned there can be no distinction nor 
conflict in the least between our Communal and National duties, as the best interests of the 
Hindudom are simply identified with best interests of Hindustan as a whole. Hindudom 
cannot advance or fulfil its lifemission unless and until our Motherland is set free and 
consolidated into an Indian State in which all our countrymen to whatever religion or sect or 
race they belong are treated with perfect equality and none allowed to dominate others or is 
deprived of his just and equal rights of free 

citizenship as long as everyone discharges the common obligations and duties which one 
owes to the Indian Nation as a whole. The truer a Hindu is to himself as a Hindu he must 
inevitably grow a truer National as well. I shall substantiate this point later on as I proceed. 

With this conviction and from this point of view, I shall deal in this my presidential 
address with some fundamental aspects of the Hindu Sanghatan Movement as expounded by 
this Mahasabha or as I understand them and leave detailed and passing questions, to be 
deliberated upon and decided, to the representatives assembled in this Session. 

Homage to the Independent Hindu 
Kingdom of Nepal 

But before proceeding further I feel it my bounden duty to send forth on behalf of all 
Hindus our loyal and loving greetings to His Majesty the King of Nepal, His Highness Shree 
Yuddhsamasher Ranajee-the Prime Minister of Nepal and all of our co-religionists and 
countrymen there who have even in the darkest hour of our history, been successful in 
holding out as Hindu Power and in keeping a flag of Hindu Independence flying unsullied on 
the summits of the Himalayas. The Kingdom of Nepal stands out today as the only Hindu 
Kingdom in the world whose independence os recognised by England, France, Italy and other 
great powers. Amongst some twentyfive crores of our Hindus in this generation, His Majesty 
the King of Nepal is the first and foremost and the only Hindu today who can enter in the 
assemblage of King, Emperors and Presidents of all the independent nations in the world, 
with head erect and unbent, as an equal 

amongst equals. In spite of the passing political aspect of the question, Nepal is bound to 
Hindudom as a whole by the dearest ties of a common race and religion and language and 
culture, inheriting with us this our common Motherland and our common Holyland. Our life is 
one. Whatever contributes to the strength of Hindudom as a whole, must strengthen Nepal 
and whatever progress the latter records is bound to elevate the first. Hence all 


Page 3 of 130 




Hindu Rashtra Darshan 


Sanghatanist Hindus long to see that the only Independent Hindu Kingdom is rapidly brought 
to an up-to-date efficiency, political social, and above all military and aerial so as to enable 
Her to hold out Her own in the National struggle for existence that is going on all around us 
and march on and fulfil the great and glorious destiny that awaits Her ahead. 

Message of Sympathy to the Hindus in the 
Greater Hindusthan 

Nor can this session of the Hindu Mahasabha forget to send forth its message of 
sympathy and loving remembrances to those of our co-religionists and countrymen abroad 
who have been building a greater Hindusthan without the noise of drums and trumpets in 
Africa, America, Mauritiusand such other parts of the world and also to those who as in the 
island of Bali are still holding out as remnants of the ancient world Empire of our Hindu Race. 
Their fortune too are inextricably bound up with the freedom and strength and greatness of 
Bharatavarsha which is the 'Pitrubhoo' and 'Punyabhoo'-the Fatherland and the Holyland of 
Hindudom as a whole. 


Hindusthan must ever remain 
one and indivisible 

Nor can the Hindu Mahasabha afford to be forgetful of the Hindus who reside in the 
so-called 'French India 1 and 'Portuguese India' in India ! The very words sound preposterous 
and insulting to us. Apart from the artificial and enforced political divisions of today we are 
indissolubly bound together by the enduring ties of blood and religion and country. We must 
declare, as an ideal at any rate, that Hindusthan of tomorrow must be one and indivisible not 
only a united but a Unitarian nation, from Kashmir to Rameshwar, from Sindh to Assam. I 
hope that not only the Mahasabha but even the Congress and such other national bodies in 
Hindusthan will not fight shy of claiming.Gomantak, Pondicherry, and such other parts of 
Hindusthan as parts as inalienable and integral of our Nation as is Maharashtra or Bengal or 
Punjab. 


The definition of the word 'Hindu' 

As a whole superstructure of the mission and the function of the Hindu Mahasabha 
rests on the correct definition of the word 'Hindu,' we must first of all make it clear what 
'Hindutva' really means. Once the scope and the meaning of the world is defined and 
understood, a number of misgivings in our own camp are easily removed, a number of 
misunderstandings and objections raised against us from the camp of our opponents are met 
and silenced. Fortunately for us, after a lot of wandering in wilderness, a definition of the 
word Hindu which is not only historically and logically as sound as is possible in the cases of 
such comprehensive terms, but is also eminently workable is already hit upon when 
'Hindutva' was defined as 


11 2FRT 3TTT?T3tfta 11 

11 3^:qTJZr3^^cr ^ t 11 

'Everyone who regards and claims this Bharatbhoomi from, the Indus to the Seas as 
his Fatherland and Holyland is a Hindu. Here I must point out that it is rather loose to say 
that any person professing any religion of Indian origin is a Hindu. Because that is only one 
aspect of Hindutva. The second and equally essential constituent of the concept of Hindutva 
cannot be ignored if we want to save the definition from getting overlapping and unreal. It is 
not enough that a person should profess any religion of Indian origin, i.e., Hindusthan as his 


Page 4 of 130 



Hindu Rashtra Darshan 


his Holyland, but he must also recognise it as his 3^ too, his Fatherland as well. 

As this is no place for going into the whole discussion of the pros and cons of the question, 
all I can do here is to refer to my book 'Hindutva' in which I have set forth all arguments and 
expounded the proposition at great length. I shall content myself at present by stating that 
Hindudom is bound and marked out as a 

people and a nation by themselves not by the only tie of a common Holyland in which their 
religion took birth but by the ties of a common culture, a common language, a common 
history and essentially of a common fatherland as well. It is these two constituents taken 
together that constitute our Hindutva and distinguish us form any other people in the world. 
That is why the Japanese and the Chinese, for example, do not and cannot regard 
themselves as fully identified with the Hindus. Both of them regard our Hindusthan as their 
Holyland, the land which was the cradle of their religion, but they do not and cannot look 
upon Hindusthan as their fatherland too. They are our co-religionists; but are not and 
cannot be our countrymen too. We Hindus are not only co-religionists, but even countrymen 
of each other. The Japanese and the Chinese have a different ancestry, language, culture, 
history and country of their own, which are not so integrally bound up with us as to 
constitute a common national life. In a religious assembly of the Hindus, in any Hindu 
Dharma-Mahasabha they can join with us as our brothers-in-faith having a common 
Holyland. But they will not and cannot take a common part or have a common interest in a 
Hindu Mahasabha which unites Hindus together and represent their national life. A 
definition must in the main respond to reality. Just as by the first constituent of Hindutva, 
the possession if a common Holyland-the Indian Mahommedans, Jews, Christians, Parsees, 
etc. are excluded from claiming themselves as Hindus which in reality also they do not,-in 
spite of their recognising Hindusthan as their fatherland, so also on the other hand the 
second constituent of the definition that of possessing a common fatherland exclude the 
Japanese, the Chinese and others from the Hindu fold in spite of the fact of their having a 
Holyland in common with us. The above definition had already been adopted by number of 
prominent Hindu-sabhas such as the Nagpur, Poona, Ratnagiri Hindu-sabhas, and others. 
The Hindu Mahasabha also had in view this very definition when the word Hindu was rather 
loosely explained in its present constitution as ' one who profess any religion of Indian 
origin.' I submit that the time has come when we should be more accurate and replace that 
partial description by regular definition and incorporate in the constitution the full verse itself 
translating it in the precise terms as rendered above. 

A void the loose and harmful misuse 
of the word 'Hindu' 

From this correct definition of Hindutva it necessarily follows that we should take all 
possible care to restrict the use of the word 'Hindu' to its defined and definite general 
meaning only and avoid misusing it in any sectarian sense. In common parlance even our 
esteemed leaders and writers who on the one hand are very particular in emphasizing that 
our non-Vedic religious schools are also included in the common Hindu brotherhood, commit 
on the other hand, the serious mistake if using such expressions as 'Hindus and Sikhs', 
'Hindus and Jains' denoting thereby unconsciously that the Vaidiks or the Sanatanists only 
are Hindus and thus quite unawares inculcate the deadly virus of separation in the minds of 
the different constituents of our religious brotherhood, defeating our own eager desire to 
consolidate them all into a harmonious and organic whole. Confusion in words leads to 
confusion in thoughts. If we take good care not to identify the term ' Hindu ' with the major 
Vedic section of our people alone, our non-Vedic brethren such as the Sikhs, the Jains and 
others will find no just reason to resent the application of the word ' Hindu ' in their case 
also. Those who hold to the opinion that Sikhis, Jainism and such other religion that go to 
form our Hindu brotherhood are neither the branches of nor originated from the Vedas but 
are independent religions by themselves need not cherish any fear or suspicion of losing their 
independence as a religious 


Page 5 of 130 



Hindu Rashtra Darshan 


school by being called Hindus if that application is rightly used only to denote all those who 
won India, this Bharatbhoomi, as their Holyland and fatherland. Whenever we want to 
discriminate the constituents of Hindudom as a whole we should designate them as 'Vaidiks 
and Sikhs', 'Vaidiks and J ains' etc. But to say 'Hindus and Sikhs', 'Hindus and J ains' is as self¬ 
contradictory and misleading as to say 'Hindus and Brahmins' or 'Jains and Digambers' or 
'Sikhs and Akalees.' Such a harmful misuse of the word Hindu should be carefully avoided 
especially in the speeches, resolutions and records of our Hindu Mahasabha. 

The word 'Hindu' is of Vaidic origin. 

We may mention here in passing that the word 'Hindu' is not a denomination which 
the foreigners applied to us in contempt otherwise but is derived from our Vedic appellation 
of ^TFf^(Saptasindhus) a fact which is fully dealt with in my book on Hindutva and is borne 
out by the name of one of our provinces and peoples bordering on the Indus who are being 
called down to this day as f^by and f^fsft. 

The Hindu Mahasabha is in the main 

not a religious but a national body 

From this above discussion it necessarily follows that the concept of the term 
'Hindutva'-Hinduness-is more comprehensive than the word 'Hinduism'. It was to draw a 
pointed attention to this distinction that I had coined the words 'Hindutva', 'Pan Hindu' and 
'Hindudom' when I framed the 

definition of the word 'Hindu'. Hinduism concerns with the religious systems of the Hinds, 
their theology and dogma. But this is precisely a matter which this Hindu Mahasabha leaves 
entirely to individual or group conscience and faith. The Mahasabha takes its stand on no 
dogma, no book or school of philosophy whether pantheist, monotheist or atheist. All that it 
is concerned with, so far as 'ism' is concerned, is the common characteristic, which a Hindu, 
by the very fact of professing allegiance to a religion or faith of Indian origin necessarily 
possesses in regarding India as his Holyland, as his g^ra^-the cradle and the temple of his 
faith. 

Thus while only indirectly concerned with Hinduism which is only one of the many aspects of 
Hindutva resulting from the second constituent of possessing a common Fatherland. The 
Mahasabha is not in the main a Hindu-Dharma-Sabha but it is pre-eminently a Hindu- 
Rashtra-Sabha and is a Pan-Hindu organization shaping the destiny of the Hindu Nation in all 
its social, political and cultural aspects. Those who commit the serious mistake of taking the 
Hindu Mahasabha for only a religious body would do well to keep thise distinction in mind. 

The Hindus are a Nation by themselves 

Some cavil at the position I have taken that the Hindu Mahasabha as I understand its 
mission, is pre-eminently a national body and challenge me-'How the Hindus who differ so- 
much amongst themselves in every detail of life could at all be called a nation as such ?' To 
them my reply is that no people on the earth are so homogenous as to present perfect 
uniformity in language, culture, race and religion. A people is marked out a nation by 
themselves not so much by the absence of any heterogeneous differences amongst 
themselves as by the fact of their differing from other peoples more markedly than they 
differ amongst themselves. Even those who deny the fact that the Hindus could be called a 
nation by themselves, do recognise Great Britain, the United States, Russia, Germany and 
other peoples as nations. What is the test by which those peoples are called nations by 
themselves ? Take Great Britain as an example. There are at any rate three different 
languages there; they have fought amongst themselves dreadfully in the past, there are to 


Page 6 of 130 



Hindu Rashtra Darshan 


be found the traces of different seeds and bloods and race. If you say that in spite of it all 
they are a nation because they possess a common country, a common language, a common 
culture and common Holyland then the Hindus too possess a common country so well 
marked out as Hindusthan, a common language the Sanskrit from which all their current 
languages are derived or are nourished and which forms even today the common language 
of their Scriptures and literature and which is held in esteem as the sacred reservoir of 
ancient scriptures and the tongue of their forefathers. By 'Anuloma' and 'Pratiloma' 
marriages their seed and blood continued to get commingled even since the days of Manu. 
Their social festivals and cultural forms are not less common than those we find in England. 
They possess a common Holyland. The Vedic Rishis are their common pride, their 
Grammarians Panini and Patanjali, their Poets Bhavabhooti and Kalidas, their heroes Shri 
Ram and Shri Krishna, Shivaji and Pratap, Guru Govind and Banda are a source of common 
inspiration. Their Prophets Buddha and Mahaveer, Kanad and Shankar, are held in common 
esteem. Like their ancient and sacred language-the Sanskrit-their scripts also are fashioned 
on the same basis and the Nagari script has been the common vehicle of their sacred 
writings since centuries in the past. Their ancient and modern history is common. They 
have friends and enemies in common. They have faced common dangers and won victories 
in common. One in national glory and one in national disasters, one in national despairs and 
one in national hope and Hindus are welded together during aeons of a common life and a 
common habitat. Above all the Hindus are bound together by the dearest, most sacred and 
most enduring bonds of a common Fatherland and a common Holyland, and these two being 
identified with one and the same country our Bharatbhumi, our India, the National Oneness 
and homogenity of the Hindus have been doubly sure. If the United States with the warring 
crowds of Negroes, Germans and Anglo-saxons, with a common past not exceeding four or 
five centuries put together can be called a nation-then the Hindus must be entitled to be 
recognized as a nation par excellence. Verily the Hindus as a people differ most markedly 
from any other people in the world than they differ amongst themselves. All tests whatsover 
of a common country, race, religion, and language that go to entitle a people to form a 
nation, entitle the Hindus with greater emphasis to that claim. And whatever differences 
divide the Hindus amongst themselves are rapidly disappearing owing to their awakening of 
the national consciousness and the Sanghatan and the social reform movements of today. 
Therefore the Hindu Mahasabha that has, as formulated in its current constitution, set before 
itself the task of 'the maintenance, protection and promotion of the Hindu race, culture and 
civilization for the advancement and glory of "Hindu Rashtra 1 is pre-eminently a national body 
represent the Hindu Nation as a whole. 

Is this mission of the Mahasabha narrow, anti-Indian 
and Parochial aim ? 

Some of our well meaning but unthinking section of Indian patriots who look down 
upon the Mahasabha as a communal, narrow and anti-Indian body only because it represents 
Hindudom and tries to protect its just rights, forget the fact that communal and parochial are 
only relative terms and do not by themselves imply a condemnation or curse. Are not they 
themselves who swear by the name of Indian Nationalism in season and out of season liable 
to the same charge of parochialness ? If the Mahasabha represents the Hindu nation only, 
they claim to represent the Indian nation alone. But is not the concept of an Indian Nation 
itself a parochial conception in elation to Human State ? In fact the Earth is our motherland 
and Humanity our Nation. Nay, the Vedantist goes further and claims this Universe for his 
country and all manifestation from the stars to the stone his own self. 'STW^T I 

ztttt 11 1 says Tukaram ! Why then take the Himalayas 
to cut us off from the rest of mankind, deem ourselves as separate Nation as Indians and 
fight with every other country and the English in particular who after all are our brothers-in- 
Humanity ! Why not sacrifice I ndian interests to those of the British Empire which is a larger 


Page 7 of 130 



Hindu Rashtra Darshan 


political synthesis ? The fact is that all Patriotism is more or less parochial and communal 
and is responsible for dreadful wars throughout human history. Thus the Indian Patriots who 
instead of starting and joining some movement of a universal state, stop short of it, join an 
Indian Movement and yet continue to mock at the Hindu Sanghatan as narrow and 
communal and parochial succeed only in mocking at themselves. 

But if it is said justification of Indian Patriotism that the people who populate India 
are more akin to each other bound by ties of a common ancestry, language, culture, history, 
etc. than they are to any other people outside India and therefore we Indians feel it our first 
duty to protect our Nation from our political domination and aggression of other non-Indian 
nations then, the same reason could be adduced to justify the Hindu Sanghatan Movement 
as well. 


When national, communal, or parochial movements 
are harmful to Humanity ? 

No movement is condemnable simply because it is sectional. So long as it tries to defend the 
just and fundamental rights of a particular nation or people or community against the unjust 
and overbearing aggression of other human aggregates and does not infringe on an equal 
just right and liberties of others, it cannot be condemned or looked down simply because the 
nation or community is a smaller aggregate in itself. But when a nation or community treads 
upon the rights of sister nations or communities and aggressively stands in the way of 
forming larger associations and aggregates of mankind, its nationalism or communalism 
becomes condemnable from a human point of view. This is the acid test of distinguishing a 
justifiable nationalism or communalism from an unjust and harmful one. The Hindu 
Sanghatan movement, call it national, communal or parochial as you like stands as much 
justified by this real test as our I ndian Patriotism can be. 

The Hindu Mahasabha is perfectly National 
in its Outlook 

For what does the Hindu Mahasabha aim at ? As the national representative body of 
Hindudom it aims at the allround regeneration of the Hindu people. But the absolute political 
independence of Hindusthan is a sine qua non for that allround regeneration of Hindudom. 
The fortunes of the Hindus are more inextricably and more closely bound up with India than 
that of any other non-Hindu sections of our countrymen. After all the Hindus are the 
bedrock on which an Indian independent state could be built. 

Whatever may happen some centuries hence, the solid fact of today cannot be 
ignored that religion wields mighty influence on the minds of men in Hindusthan and in the 
case of Mohammedans especially their religious zeal, more often than not, borders on 
fanatism ! Their love towards India as their motherland is but an handmaid to their love for 
their Holyland outside I ndia. Their faces are ever turned towards Mecca and Madina. But to 
the Hindus Hindusthan being their Fatherland as well as their Holyland, the love they bear to 
Hindusthan is undivided and absolute. They not only form the overwhelming majority of 
Indian population but have on the whole been the 

trusted champions of Her cause. A Mohammedan is often found to cherish an extra¬ 
territorial allegiance, is moved more by events in Palestine than what concerns India as a 
Nation, worries himself more about the well-being of the Arabs than the well-being of his 
Hindu neighbours and countrymen in India. Thousands of Mohammedans could be found 
conspiring with the Turkish Khilaphatists and Afghans with an object to bring about a foreign 
invasion of India if but a Mohammedan rule could thus be established in this land. But to a 
Hindu, India is all in all of his National being. That is the reason why the Hindus 
predominate in the struggle that is going on for the overthrow of the political domination of 


Page 8 of 130 



Hindu Rashtra Darshan 


England over this country. It is the Hindus who went to the gallows, faced transporation to 
the Andamans by hundreds and got imprisoned by thousands in the fight for the liberation of 
Hindusthan. Even the Indian National Congress owes its inception to Hindu brain, its growth 
to Hindu sacrifice, its present position to Hindu labours in the main. A Hindu Patriot worth 
the name cannot but be an Indian patriot as well. In this sense the consolidation and the 
independence of Hindu Nation is but another name for the independence of the Indian 
Nation as a whole. For, the Hindu Sanghatanists know full well that no regeneration of 
Hindudom could be brought about and no honour and equal place could be secured for the 
Hindu Nation amongst the Nations of the world unless swarajya and swatantrya are won for 
Hindusthan, their Fatherland and Holyland. 

But what does this Independence of India 
-this f-citicr-u or f-ciid^ mean ? 

In common parlance M'Uo-ai is understood as the political Freedom of our country, of 

our land, the independence of the geographical unit called India. But the time has come 
when these expressions must be fully analysed and understood. A country or a geographical 
unit does not in itself constitute a nation. Our country is endeared to us because it has been 
the abode of our race, our people, our dearest and nearest relations and as such is only 
metaphorically referred to, to express our national being. The independence of India means, 
therefore, the independence of our people, our race, our nation. Therefore Indian swarajya 
or Indian swatantrya means, as far as the Hindu Nation is concerned, the political 
independence of the Hindus, the freedom which would enable them to grow to their full 
height. 


Only geographically speaking India as a land and a state was absolutely independent 
of any other non-Indian powers when an Allauddin Khilajee or an Aurangzeb ruled over her. 
But that kind of independence of India proved a veritable death-warrant to the Hindu Nation. 
That is why Sanga and Pratap, Guru Govind Singh and Bir Banda, Shivaji and Bajirao fought 
and fell and won in the end and established a Hindu Empire under the Marathas, the Rajputs, 
the Sikhs, The Gurkhas throughout our Motherland and saved our Hindudom from the 
clutches of the non-Hindu aggression. Does it not prove to a hilt that merely the 
geographical independence or swarajya of India does not mean the independence of Hindu 
Nation-nay, may at times prove a positive curse to their Race ? 

India is dear to us because it has been and is the home of our Hindu Race, the land which 
has been the cradle of our prophets and heroes and gods and godmen. Otherwise land for 
land there may be many a country as rich in gold and silver on the face of the earth. River 
for river the Mississipi us nearly as good as the Ganges and its waters are not altogether 
bitter. The stones and trees and greens in Hindusthan are just as good or bad stones and 
trees and greens of the respective species elsewhere. Hindusthan is a Fatherland and 
Holyland to us not because it is a land entirely unlike any other land in the world but because 
it is associated with our history, has been the home of our forefathers, wherein our mothers 
gave us the first suckle at their breast and our fathers cradled us on their knees from 
generation to generation. 

The cottage wherein our beloved dwell, grows dearer to our eyes than a palace 
elsewhere. But let the dear faces disappear from it and go to dwell elsewhere and the 
cottage shrinks suddenly to the wretched hut that it was. We discard it and follow our 
beloved to their new abode. So with the nations also. Look at the Jews or the Parsees ! 
When the Arabians invaded 

them and only a choice was left to them between their land and their racial and cultural 
identity and with their book and cultural went away in search of a more congenial abode. 


Page 9 of 130 



Hindu Rashtra Darshan 


They refused to barter away their racial soul for a mere mess of pottage, a mere bit of 
lifeless earth ! 

The real meaning of swarajya then, is not merely the geographical independence of 
the bit of earth called India. To the Hindus independence of Hindusthan can only be worth 
having if that ensures their Hindutva-their religious, racial and cultural identity. We are not 
out to fight and die for a 'swarajya' which could only be had at the cost of our 'swatva' our 
Hindutva itself ! 


A united Indian State and the Co-operation of 
the Minorities 

So far as WTIo-ai in this right sense is concerned, the Hindus have ever been in the 

forefront in the movement and struggle for Indian independence and for founding a united 
Indian State. It is they who first dreamt of a united Indian State. It is the Hindus again who 
have by their sacrifices and struggle brought it within the scope of practical politics of today. 
Taking into account their present strength and weakness the Hindus have ever been willing 
to secure the co-operation of all non-Hindu sections of their countrymen in this common 
struggle with a view to establish a common and united Indian State. In spite of their 
overwhelming majority in India, in spite of the consciousness that it is they who have borne 
the brunt of the fight, struggled single-handed down to this day while the other non-Hindu 
sections and especially the Mohammedans who are nowhere to be found while the national 
struggle goes on and are everywhere to be found in the forefront at the time of reaping the 
fruits of that struggle-in spite of all this the Hindus are willing to form a common united 
Indian Nation and do not advance any special claims, privileges or rights reserved only for 
themselves over and above the non-Hindu section in Hindusthan 

Let the Indian State be purely Indian. Let it not recognise any invidious distinctions 
whatsoever as regards the franchise, public services, offices, taxation on the grounds of 
religion and race. Let no cognizance be taken whatsoever of man's being Hindu or 
Mohammedan, Christian or Jew. Let all citizens of that Indian State be treated according to 
their individual worth irrespective of their religious or racial percentage in the general 
population. Let that language and script be the national language and script of that Indian 
state which are understood by the overwhelming majorty of the people as happens in every 
other state in the world, i.e., in England or the United States of America and let no raligious 
bias be allowed to tamper with that language and script with an enforced and perverse 
hybridism whatsoever. Let 'one man one vote' be the general rule irrespective of caste or 
creed, race or religion. If such an Indian State is kept in view the Hindu 
Sanghatanists will, in the interest of the Hindu Sanghatan itself, be the first to offer their 
wholehearted loyalty to it. I for one and thousands of the Mahasabhaites like me have set 
this ideal of an Indian State as our political goal ever since the beginning of our political 
career and shall continue to work for its consummation to the end of our life. Can any 
attitude towards an Indian State be more national than that ? 

J ustice demands that I must plainly proclaim that the mission and policy of the Hindu 
Mahasabha with ragard to an Indian state have been more national than the present-day 
policy of Indian National Congress itself. 

The Hindus ask nothing more than what is their due as Indian citizens on the special 
plea that they are Hindus or that they from the majority of the Indian population, over and 
above the other non-Hindu sections of their countrymen. Are the Mohammedans ready to 
join such a truly national Indian State without asking any special privilege, protection or 
weightage on the fanatical ground that a special merit attaches to them of being 
Mohammedans and not Hindus ? 


Page 10 of 130 



Hindu Rashtra Darshan 


The anti-national designs of the Mohammedans 

Fortunately for the Hindus Mr. Jinnah and the Moslem Leaguers have deliberately 
disclosed their real intentions this year at the Lucknow session of the Moslem League more 
authoritatively, more frankly and even more blatantly than they used to do before. I thank 
them for it. An open enemy is safer than a suspicious friend in dealing with him. Their 
resolutions at Lucknow are in fact no news to us. But upto this time the onus of proving the 
existence of the Moslem anti-national attitude and their Pan-lslamic ambitions more or less 
lay on the Hindus. But now we need do no more than point out to the authoritative 
speeches and resolutions of the League delivered and passed at that Lucknow Session to 
explain the anti-Hindu, anti-Indian and extra-territorial designs of the Moslems. They want 
the unalloyed Urdu to be raised to the position of the national tongue of the Indian state, 
although it is not spoken as a mother-tongue by more than a couple of crores of Moslems 
themselves and is not understood by some twenty crores of people in India, Moslems 
included; in spite of the fact that it can claim no more literary merit than Hindi which is the 
mother tongue of some seven crores of people and is easily understoood by some ten crores 
more ! While the Arabian language itself, on which Urdu is fed is deemed outlandish by 
Kemal and the Turks in the land of the Khaliphas itself, the Moslems expect some twenty-five 
crores of Hindus to learn it and to adopt it as their national tongue ! As to the national 
script, the Moslems insist on adopting the Urdu script and would have nothing to do, at any 
rate so far as they are concerned, with the Nagari ! Why ? Kemal may have discarded the 
Arabian script itself as unsutied to the present day needs, the Nagari may be more scientific, 
more amenable to printing, more easy to learn, may already be current amongst or known to 
twenty crores of people in Hindusthan, yet the Urdu script must be the state script and the 
Urdu the state language for the only merit that attaches to them of being recognised by the 
Mohammedans as their cultural asset and therefore, to make room for it, the cultures of the 
Hindus and other non-Moslem sections in Hindusthan must go to dogs ! The Moslems will 
not tolerate the 'Vande Mataram 1 song. The poor unity-hankers amongst the Hindus 
hastened to cut it short. But the Moslem would not tolerate even the piece of it cut to order. 
Drop the whole song and you will find that the Moslems would demand that the very words 
'Vande Mataram 1 are a standing insult to them ! Get a new song composed even by an over- 
generous Ravindra, Moslems would have nothing to do with it because Ravindra being a 
Hindu could not but commit the heinous offence of using some Sanskrit words as 'Jati' 
instead of 'Kaum,' 'Bharat' or "Hindusthan 1 instead of 'Pakistan' !! They cannot be satisfied 
unless a national song is composed by an Iqbal or Jinnah himself in unalloyed Urdu, hailing 
Hindusthan as a Pakistan-the land dedicated to Moslem domination ! 

When will our unity-hankers understand that the real question at the root of this 
Moslem displeasure is not a word here or a song there ! We would have sacrificed a dozen 
songs or a hundred words of our own free will if thereby we could really contribute to the 
unity and solidarity of Hindusthan. But we know the question is not so simple as that. It is 
the strife of different cultures and races and nations and these trifles are but the passing and 
outward symptoms of this malady deep seated in the Moslem mind. They want to brand the 
forehead of Hindudom and other non-Moslem sections in Hindusthan with the stamp of self- 
humiliatiom and Moslem domination and we Hindus are not going to tolerate it any longer 
not only in the interests of Hindudom alone but even in the interest of Indian Nation as well. 

But if we do not tolerate this the Hon. Mr. Fuzlul Huq told there and then at Lucknow 
what would happen to us ! From the high altitude of a Prime Minister's gaddi he promised to 
'satana' the Hindus in Bengal (3f tthiw) if other Hindus proved recalcitrant 

elsewhere to the orders of the Moslem League. Now the gaddi of the Prime Minister in 
Bengal was the outcome of the reforms which were wrested out from the English hands by 
the martyrdom and sacrifice of the Hindu Patriots in Bengal. The Moslems there as 


Page 11 of 130 



Hindu Rashtra Darshan 


everywhere did not claim a special representation or weightage in those sufferings and 
sacrifices. But as soon as the reforms came, who could occupy and deserve the gaddi of a 
Prime Minister but the Hon. Mr. Fuzlul Huq ! And now he threatens the very Hindus in 
Bengal who struggled most and suffered most to whose sufferings alone Mr. Huq owes his 
gaddi that he will 'satana' (TTcTFfrTT) them, in all shades of the meaning of that word from 

teasing to oppressing ! I should like to assure the Nonourable Mr. Fuzlul Huq that the Bengal 
Hindus are a hard nut to crack. They have at times forced some of the prancing roconsuls of 
even the powerful British Empire like Lord Curzon to climb down ! But if he ever does 
persecute our Bengal Hindus then let him not forget that we Hindus also can in Maharahstra 
and elsewhere deal out to his comrades the same treatment, measure for measure, full to 
the brim and well shaken ! 

I need not refer to the attitude of the Moslem as regards the Communal Award and 
the Federation in which case also they want to humiliate the Hindus and Shylock-like insist 
on having their pound of flesh ! I don't want to tire you out with a plethora of figures which 
you all know by heart. It is only enough to remind you of the audacious proposal openly 
debated in the League regarding the Moslem demand to cut up the body politic of our 
Motherland right in two parts-the Mohammedan India and the Hindu India,-aiming to form a 
separate Moslem country-Pakistan-comprising of the provinces of Kashmir, Punjab, Peshawar 
and Sind ! 

Hands off, sir, hands off ! If you aim thus to reduce the Hindus to the position of 
helots in their own land, you should do well to remember that a seccession of Aurangazebs 
when they wielded an Imperial power here had failed to perform that feat and in their 
attempt to carry out that design only succeeded in digging their own graves ! Surely, 
J innahs and Huqs cannot accomplish what Aurangazebs failed to achieve ! 

Real Unity can only come when 
the Mohammedans need it! 

Let the Hindus remember that the real cause of this mischief is nothing else but the 
hankering of the Hindus after the Willow-the-Wisp of a Hindu-Moslem, unity. The day we 
gave the Mohammedans to understand that Swaraj could not be won unless and until the 
Mohammedans obliged the Hindus by making a common cause with them, that day we 
rendered an honourable unity impossible. When an overwhelming majority in a country goes 
on its knees before a minority so antagonistic as the Mohammedans, imploring them to lend 
a helping hand and assures it that otherwise the major community is doomed to death, it 
would be a wonder if that minor community does not sell their assistance at the higher 
bidder possible, does not hasten the doom of the major community and aim to establish their 
own political suzeraignty in the land. The only threat that the Mohammedans always hold 
before the Hindus is to the effect that they would not join the Hindus in the struggle for 
Indian freedom unless their anti-national and fanatical demands are granted on the spot. Let 
the Hindus silence the threat once for all telling point blank : 'Friends ! We wanted and do 
want only that kind of unity which will go to create an Indian state in which all citizens 
irrespective of caste and creed, race and religion are treated all alike on the principle of one 
man one vote. We, though we form the overwhelming majority in the land, do not want any 
special privileges for our Hindudom; nay more, we are even willing to guarantee special 
protection for the language, culture and religion of the Mohammedans as a minority if they 
also promise not to infringe on the equal liberty of other communities in India to follow their 
own ways within their own respective houses and not to try to dominate and humiliate the 
Hindus. But knowing full well the anti-Indian designs of the pan-lslamic movement, with a 
link of Moslem nations from Arabia to Afganisthan bound by their recent offensive and 
defensive alliances and the ferocious tendencies of the frontier tribes to oppress the Hindus 
out of religious and racial hatred, we Hindus are not going to trust you any longer with any 


Page 12 of 130 



Hindu Rashtra Darshan 


more blank cheques. We are out to win Swarajya in which our fUcU along with the Wcci of 

all other constituents will be safe. We are not out to fight with England only to find a change 
of masters but we Hindus aim to be masters in our own house. A Swarajya that could only 
be had at the humiliation and cost of Hindutva itself is for us Hindus as good as suicide. If 
India is not freed from foreign domination the Indian Moslems cannot but be slaves 
thsmselves. If they feel it to be true, if and when they feel they cannot do without the 
assistance and the good will of the Hindus let them come then to ask for unity and that also 
not to oblige the Hindus but to oblige themselves. 1 A Hindu Moslem unity which is effected 
thus is worth having. The Hindus have realised to their cost that in this case seeking unity is 
losing it. Henceforth the Hindu formula for Hindu-Moslem unity is only this-'if you come, with 
you; if you don't without you; and if you oppose, in spite of you-the Hindus will continue to 
fight for their National Freedom as best as they can 1 ! 

Non-Moslem Minorities in India 

So far as other minorities in India are concerned, there cannot be much difficulty in 
arriving at an Indian National consolidtion. The Parsees have ever been working shoulder to 
shoulder with the Hindus against the English domination. They are no fanatics. From the 
great Dadabhai Nowroji to the renowned revolutionary lady Madam Kama the Parsees have 
contributed their quota of true Indian patriots, nor have they ever displayed any but goodwill 
towards the Hindu Nation which to them had proved a veritable saviour of their race. 
Culturally too they are most closely akin to us. In a lesser degree the same thing could be 
said about the Indian Christians. 

Although they have yet done but little to contribute any help to the national struggle yet they 
have not acted like a millstone round our neck. They are less fanatical and are more 
amenable to political reason than the Moslems. The Jews are few in number and not 
antagonistic to our national aspirations. All these minorities of our countrymen are sure to 
behave as honest and patriotic citizens in an Indian State. 

Those who accuse the Hindus and the Mahasabha of being communal should ponder 
well on the fact that Hindus have never been found wanting in reciprocating feelings of 
amicability towards these non-Moslem minorities, nor ever have they grudged to let them 
have what is justly due to them-their countrymen. 

So far as the Anglo-Indians are concerned their present arrogance and the lion's 
share they got in the Franchise under the present Reforms Act would vanish in a minute as 
soon as England goes out. Their sound political instinct will soon bring them in a line with 
other I ndian citizens; otherwise they could easily be brought to their senses. 

But with the Mohammedans the case is quite different. I warn the Hindus that the 
Mohammedans are likely to prove dangerous to our Hindu nation and the existence of a 
common Indian State even if and when England goes out. Let us not be stone blind to the 
fact that they as a community still continue to cherish fanatical designs to establish a Moslem 
rule in I ndia. Let us work for harmony, let us hope for the best, but let us be on our guard ! 

Two antagonistic Nations living in India 
side by side 

As it is, there are two antagonistic nations living side by side in India several infantile 
politicians commit the serious mistake in supposing that India is already welded into a 
harmonious nation, or that it could be welded thus for the mere wish to do so. These our 
well-meaning but unthinking friends take their dreams for realities. That is why they are 
impatient of communal tangles and attribute them to communal organizations. But the solid 
fact is that the so-called communal questions are but a legacy handed down to us by 


Page 13 of 130 



Hindu Rashtra Darshan 


centuries of a cultural, religious and national antagonism between the Hindus and the 
Moslems. When time is ripe you can solve them; but you cannot suppress them by merely 
refusing recognition of them. It is safer to diagnose and treat deep-seated disease than to 
ignore it. Let us bravely face unpleasant facts as they are. India cannot be assumed today 
to be a Unitarian and homogeneous nation, but on the contrary there are two nations in the 
main; the Hindus and the Moslems, in India. And as it has happened in many countries 
under similar situation in the world the utmost that we can do under the circumstances is to 
form an Indian State in which none is allowed any special weightage of representation and 
none is paid an extra-price to buy his loyalty to the State. Mercenaries are paid and bought 
off, not sons of the Motherland to fight in her defence. The Hindus as a nation are willing to 
discharge their duty to a common Indian State on equal footing. But if our Moslem 
countrymen thrust on a communal strife on the Hindus and cherish anti-Indian and extra 
territorial designs of establishing a 

Mohammedan Rule or supremacy in India then let the Hindus look to themselves and stand 
on their own legs and fight singlehanded as best as they can for the liberation of India from 
any non-Hindu yoke, be it English or Moslem or otherwise. 

Vote only for those who pledge to defend Hindutva 
and are tried Sanghatanists 

With this end in view I exhort you all to asset yourselves as the Hindus ! Down with 
the apologetic attitude that makes some of us feel shy to proclaim themselves as Hindus, as 
if it was something unnational, something like a disgrace to be born of the line of Shri Ram 
and Shri Krishna - Shivaji and Pratap and Govind Singh ! We Hindus must have a country of 
our own in the Solar System and must coutinue to flourish there as Hindus-descendants of a 
mighty people. Then up with the Shuddi which has not a religious menaing alone but a 
political side as well ! Up with Sanghatan for the consummation of which it is simply 
imperative for non Hindus to capture whatever political power has been wrung out by our 
efforts in the past under the present Reforms Act. The Mohammedans only vote for those 
who openly and boldly pledge to guard and aggressively secure rights for the Mohammedan 
people. But we Hindus commit the suicidal blunder of voting for those who openly declare 
that they are neither Hindus nor Mohammedans and yet are never tired of recognising 
Mohammedan organizations and dealing with them and of adjusting compromises in the 
name of the Hindus, ever against Hindu interests and to unbearable humiliation of the 
Hindus. You must henceforth vote for those who are not ashamed themselves of being 
Hindus, openly stand for the Hindus and pledge themselves not to keep burning incense, 
always at the cost of the Hindus before the fetish of a dishonourable unity-cult. Let the 
Varnashram Swarajya Sang, the Hindu Mahasabha, Shiromani Sikh Sabhas, the Arya 
Samajists, the political organizations like the Democratic Swarajya Party in Maharashtra that 
stand for an honourable unity and a truly national Indians State and the great Ashrams, 
Sanghas and Jateeya Sabhas, that take their stand on Hindutva from a united Hindu party in 
the legislatures and let no Hindu vote for a man who is not a Sanghatanists and you will find 
then that your own ministries will be championing the just cause of our but even the Indian 
State to come. For truly Hindus are and cannot but be the main stay of our I ndian State ! 

We shall ever guarantee protection to the religion, culture and language of the 
minorities for themselves, but we shall no longer tolerate any aggression on their part on the 
equal liberty of theHindus to guard their religion, culture and language as well. If the non- 
Hindu minorities are to be protected then surely the Hindu majority also must be protected 
against any aggressive minority in India ! 

Now in the end I assure you, Oh Hindus, that if but you do not lose self-confidence in 
yourselves and are up and doing in time, all that is lost may yet be regained. There is some 
such virility and staying power inherent in your race as find a few parallels in the annals of 


Page 14 of 130 



Hindu Rashtra Darshan 


the world. Let alone the Daityas and Asuras you vanquished in your mythological and the 
pre-historical period of your annals-but your very history dates from some two thousand 
years B.C. ! Amidst the terrible struggle for existence which is incessantly going on in 
creation, survival of the fittest is the rule. The nations of the mighty Inkas and Pharaohs and 
Nebuchadnezars were swept away and no trace left behind. But you survived those national 
cataclysms because you were found the fittest to survive. There are ups and downs in the 
life of every nation. This very England which rules today over an Empire had often fallen an 
easy prey to the Romans and the Danes, the Dutch and the Normans as well. We too had to 
face great national disasters. But each time we rose and tided them over. The Greeks under 
Alexander the Great came conquering the world but they could not conquer Hindusthan. 
Chandra Gupta rose and we drove the Greeks back inflicting crushing defeats on them 
military and cultural. Three centuries after the Huns came on us like an avalanche. All 
Europe and half Asia lay at their feet, they smashed the Roman Empire to pieces. But after 
some two centuries of a life-to-death struggle against them we vanquished them in the end 
under our Vikramaditya the great ! The Shakas also fared no better. The mighty hands of 
Shalivahan and Yashodharman beat them to a chip. Where are those of our enemies-the 
Huns and the Parthians and the Shakas today ? The very names are forgotten ! Gone, 
effaced from the face of India and the world as well. The virility and the staying out power 
of our race triumphed over them all. 

Then centuries after, the Mohammedans invaded India and carried everything before 
them. Their Kingdoms and Empires seemed to reign supreme. But we rallied again and ever 
since the day that Shivaji was born the God of War sided with us. Battle after battle we beat 
the Moslems in a hundred fields; their Kingdoms and Empires, their Nababs and Shahas and 
Badashahas were brought to their knees by our warriors till at last Bhausaheb the 
Commander-in-Chief of the Hindus, as if smybolically raised his hammer and literally 
smashed the very Imperial throne of the Moghals at Delhi to pieces, Mahadji Shinde held the 
imbecile Moghal Emperors as prisoners and pensioners in his custody and Hindu supremacy 
was once more re-eastablished all over the land. 

In the meanwhile before we could recover from the struggle of centuries with 
Moslems, the English faced us and won on all points. We do not grudge their victory. 
Because though we have been vanquished in the field yesterday, yet enough fight is still left 
in us today, we have not given up the struggle for lost nay, have already returned to the 
charge. 


Who knows that some future and more fortunate President of this our Hindu 
Mahasabha may not be able to rise here, if not in this generation yet in the generation of our 
sons and proclaim the triumphant news to that session to come that as happened in the case 
of the Huns and the Greeks and the Shakas in the past there is not a trace left behind to the 
British domination in our land ! The banner of Hindudom flies supreme on the summits of 
the Himalayas, Hindusthan is free again and Hindudom triumphant!! 


1.2 20 th Session Nagpur -1938 

Ladies and Gentlemen, 

I greatfully acknowldge the confidence you have placed in me in calling upon me to 
preside over this Twentieth Session of the All-India Hindu Mahasabha. I promise you in all 
sincerity that I will try my best to deserve the trust you have thus placed in me, by exerting 
in full the limited strength which an individual like me can possess. But you will excuse me if 


Page 15 of 130 



Hindu Rashtra Darshan 


I call upon you in all humility to bear in mind that the only way of justifying yourselves in 
placing that trust in me can be no other than exerting yourselves in full in striving and 
fighting heroically to defend and consolidate Hindudom in such wise as to compel Near 
Future to herald the resurrection of a Hindu Nation rising out and of the tomb of the Present 
and grown even greater and mightier more resplendent than it ever had been in the past in 
the days of a Chandra Gupta or a Vikramaditya or the Peshwas at Poona. It is nothing short 
of a political miracle that we Hindus of this generation are called upon to work out, and no 
individual howsoever great, can accomplish the task unless and until the whole Hindudom 
rises like one man to dare and to do and to march on unvanquished through the unavoidable 
valleys of bitter disappointment and valorous death- through which alone lies the path to the 
ultimate triumph of such great causes of Nations' resurrections. If we quail we are all lost 
beyond redemption; if we but dare we are sure to win; for, even today we posses the power, 
the volcanic fire within us. We only know it not. Rouse it confidently-and it shall burst forth 
like into the column of the sacrificial Fire which led the Aryan Patriarchs of our Hindu Race 
from victory to victory. 

2. When I said that it is out of the tomb of the present that we have to resurrect 
Hindudom I said it deliberately; so that I may not be guilty of belittling the overwhelming 
difficulties we have to face today. The present is indeed a veritable sepulchre into which 
they have buried our Hindu Nation after crucifying it on the charge of committing the crime 
of claiming to be a nation by itself. It is needless for me to depict to you, brothers and 
sisters, who have attened this session, to depict the ghastly picture in details of the dreadful 
calamities which the Hindus from Peshawar to Rameshwar have to face from day to day. 
The Session of the Hindu Mahasabha is about the last 

place today where mere sightseers or job-hunters can find anything attractive enough to 
attend it here. All avenues to power, pelf, popularity lead but elsewhere. To be a Hindu 
Sanghatanists today is not a paying concern. To be a willing delegate to the Hindu 
Mahasabha Session today is to incur the wrath of powers that be, to invite the dagger of a 
non-Hindu assassin-some 'brother' Abdul Rushid to be slaughtered by some 'brave mopla 
patriots' and what is more poignant and unbearable than even the dagger of a non-Hindu 
assassin,-to be hunted and ostracized by millions of one's own Hindu kith and kin for no 
other fault but of daring to love and defend the Hindu cause and the Hindu people as 
devotedly and as humanly as the English do the English Race, as the Germans do the 
German cause, or the Japanese love the Japanese self, the Moslems do the Moslem religion 
and community. To raise aloft the Hindu banner has become today an act of high treason in 
Hindusthan-in the land of the Hindus themselves, to assert one's self as a Hindu is being 
dubbed as mean by millions of Hindus themselves. The very fact that under such conditions 
you all have gathered together here as delegates to this session of the Hindu Mahasabha and 
dared to rally round this pan-Hindu benner proves it to the hilt that you could not have done 
so unless impelled by an overwhelming sense of duty, fully conscious of and touched to the 
quick by the unbearable humiliations to which our Hindu race is subjected to from day to day 
and fully prepared to dafy the intolerable demands of the so-called Indian Patriotism seeking 
to smother unto death our very existence as Hindus, as a nation unto ourselves. 

3. I shall not, therefore, go into any current and detailed grievances or local 
questions affecting Hindu interests today but leave them to be dealt with severally in the 
resolutions and speeches on them to be passed and delivered in this session later on. I shall 
restrict myself to the two outstanding questions : 'What is the root cause that has landed the 
Hindus in this present predicament striking the life-growth of our Hindu Nation with a sudden 
atrophy, and the immediate remedy that is sure to rescue the Hindu cause even yet from 
being lost beyond recovery ! 

4. Nevertheless inasmuch as this address is meant for those millions of Hindus also 
who still remain outside the pale of the Hindu Mahasabha and who in spite of their devoted 


Page 16 of 130 



Hindu Rashtra Darshan 


allegiance to Hindutvain general are but imperfectly aware of the dangers that beset it today 
on all sides and wonder, therefore, why the Hindusabhaits should make so much ado about 
nothing or little things here and there. I feel it incumbent upon me just to denote a few 
points in passing to acquaint them with the real gravity of the situation at least sufficiently 
enough to set them thinking and in a mood to realize the import of what I have to say later 
on during the course of the address. Let us just take the constitution in force today. The 
British have deliberately deprived the Hindus of the political predominance which was their 
due as the overwhelming majority in India by danying them representation in proportion to 
their population on the one hand and on the other loaded the Moslems, Christians, 
Europeans with weightages, preferences, securities and what not, so as to invest them with 
political power immeasurably more than what was their due. They broke up the Hindu 
electorate into watertight compartments with a view to prevent the growth of their political 
solidarity amongst themselves, why, the very recognition of the Hindus as an electoral unit 
by themselves is altogether and deliberately denied in the electoral scheme of our country. 
Spacious apartments, well furnished and honourably named, are reserved for the minorities. 
The majority, the Hindu, the host is crowded into the lumber-room, the general electorate, 
unnamed and unrecognized. With a set purpose to starve out martial qualities in the Hindus 
the British Government have been curtailing their recruitment in the army and in the police 
with the effect that the Moslem minority preponderates in those two vital forces of the 
nation. In the Punjab and some other provinces measures like Land alienation Act seek to 
crush the Hindus economically while in Bengal an unabashed Act is passed to reserve some 
sixty per cent of posts for the Moslems in Government Services. In the Moslem states of 
Hyderabad, Bhopal and others the religious and racial presecution of the Hindus is carried on 
so relentlessly as to remind one of the days of Aurangazeb and Allaudin. In cities and 
villages all over India their civil and religious rights are daily trampled under foot to allay the 
fury of Moslem mobs. The bloody orgies to which the Hindus were subjected by Moslem 
fanatics in Malabar and kohat are enacted on this scale or that even in the presidency towns 
all over India every now and then. The Frontier Moslem tribes carry out raids and perpetrate 
unnamable atrocities on the Hindu people there with a set purpose of exterminating the Kafir 
in that region. Only the Hindu Merchants are looted, only the Hindus are massacred and only 
the Hindu women and children are kidnapped and held to rensom or converted perforce to 
Islam. On the top of it all comes in the Psuedo-Nationalism of the Congressites who 
practically condone and explain away these Moslem atrocities by inventing such lying excuses 
: 'There is nothing anti-Hindu in these Moslem raids ! It is only economical and sexual 
stravation of the tribes that goads them on to these crimes. Let us feed those starved souls 
and they will be good citizens !' But it is curious that these starved poor raiders leave the rich 
Moslems in the Frontier towns unlooted, find no young Moslem damsels to kidnap, burn no 
Moslem houses and go about assuring the Moslem by beat of drums that they shall not hurt 
a hair of any Moslem provided he shelters not a Hindu Kafir ! Witness only the latest case in 
the Dadu district in Sind. The Moslem raiders attacked on 

absolutely unoffending archaeological party under Mr. Muzumdar. They askes each one : 
'Are you a Hindu ?' If he said Aye, he was forthwith shot dead. One Hindu pretended to be 
a Moslem and he was let go alive and unmolested. This case is only a typical one illustrating 
thousands of such dreadful happenings all over India and is the order of the day during all 
Moslem riots and raids from Malalbar to Peshawar, from Sindh to Assam and year in and year 
out. Add to this the activities of the all-India organizations of the Christian missionaries and 
the Moslem organizations from the Agakhanis, Hasan Nizamis, Peera Motamiyas to the very 
village Moslem goondas, all seeking and succeeeding in converting millions of Hindus to 
foreign faiths by peaceful or fraudulent forceful means throughout the length and breadth of 
India undermining the religious, racial, cultural and 

political activities of the Moslem Leaguers, and the Moslem States that have already 
culminated into open resolutions first to divide India into a Moslem Federation and a Hindu 
Federation and then to strike down the latter by inviting invasions from outside India by 
some alien Moslem powers. Such is the present state of the Hindus in Hindusthan, their own 


Page 17 of 130 



Hindu Rashtra Darshan 


land ! And yet the worst factor remains to be told. For, even to refer to these calamities to 
which the Hindus have fallen a prey is damned as a national sin by that new cult which calls 
itself 'Indian Nationalists' and leads at present the Indian National Congress. Offering a 
blank cheque to the Moslem by one hand they deliver ultimatum to the Hindus by the other. 
'Get looted but don't report, get stabbed but don't shriek, get repressed as Hindus but don't 
organize to resist it as Hindus; or else you will be damned as traitors to the cause of our 
Indian Nationalism !!!' 

5. In the face of these facts who else but a fool or a foe can accuse the Hindu 
Mahasabha of making much ado about nothing or fancying grievances where none exists or 
dealing only with some superstitious and empty contents of religious of racial slogans ? 

Again, in the face of these facts what wonder is there that leaving aside those who 
continue to be counted amongst Hindus but whose hearts have ceased to respond to their 
Hinduness or who openly disown any allegiance to Hindudom, we find crores of Hindus all 
over India every fibre of whose life vibrates with the racial, religious or cultural consciousness 
of being Hindus, sorely afflicted to see our Hindu race beset by all these calamities and 
subjected to such unbearable humiliations. On all sides today the anxious question is asked 
by crores of Hindus : 'How are we to remedy this evil ? How is that we fell ? How are we 
Hindus to rise again as Hindus and recover our position as a Nation great amongst the 
nations in the world ?' This recent searching of heart is one of the most encouraging signs to 
show that the soul of our Hindu race is roused again from the deadly swoon of self- 
forgetfulness. It is natural that on its return to self-consciousness it should raise these 
bewildering questions as to its whereabouts. 

Although it is not possible to deal exhaustively with these anxious questions that are 
daily pouring on us from all sides within the limited compass of an address like this, yet I feel 
that if but I can succeed in pointing out the root cause which has landed us on this sad plight 
and the immediate step which we must and fortunately we also can take with a view to come 
out of it, my address will serve its purpose fairly well. 

6. In order to find out the root cause, the first initial error which is leading us into a 
series of all derivative errors rendered us Hindus insensible to the very fact that we had a 
National being at all, we must first have a hurried peep into our racial history. 

A peep into our History 

It is at least some 5,000 years ago, to the Vaidic age that the beginning of our Hindu 
Nation could be historically and undeniably traced. Our National ancestors lived and 
flourished then on the banks of the seven Sindhus and were laying foundations of a Nation 
that was destined to grow later on into a mighty Hindu Nation. Racially and culturally they 
were called Aryans; territorially they bore the name of the Sapta Sindhus or Sindhus. One 
of our provinces and its people on the banks of the Sindhu River bear the very same name 
down to this day and are called Sindh and Sindhus respectively. They crossed the Ganges, 
the Vindhyas the Godavari in their vigorous and valorous course of colonization and conquest 
till they reached the Southern and the Eastern and Western limits of India. By an admirable 
process of assimilation, elimination and consolidation, political, racial and cultural, they 
welded all other non-Aryan peoples whom they came in contact with or conflict with through 
this process of their expansion in this land from the Indus to the Eastern sea and from the 
Himalayas to the Southern sea into a national unit. Politics and religion vied with each other 
with a conscious policy of ultimately uniting them all into a national being bound together by 
the ties of a common religion, common language, common culture, a common Fatherland 
and a common Holyland. Witness for example the four ym-the religious holy outposts 
roughly marking the four limits of our Holyland-Badrikedar, Dwarka, Rameshwar and 


Page 18 of 130 



Hindu Rashtra Darshan 


Jagannath, identifying them as demarcatingly as it was then possible with the limits of our 
Fatherland as well. Leaving mythological period alone even in the period of our definite 
history the mighty centralised empires of Chandra Gupta Maurya, Ghandra Gupta the Second, 
Vikramaditya, Yashovardhan, Pulkeshi, Shri Harsha and such other great Samrats and 
Chakravartis added to this consolidation of our people and made them vibrate with the 
stirrings of a common political and national being, Powerful invasions of the Greeks, Shakas, 
Huns and such other foreign races which threatened our people with a common danger and 
the mighty conflicts they had to wage to overcome that danger by presenting a common 
front to it lasting sometimes for centuries vested all the more their consciousness of cultural, 
political, racial and religious oneness marking them out as a national unit by themselves, in 
spite of their internal differences in relation to other non-Indian National units. The long 
period of peace unmolested by external political danger worth the name-that intervened 
between the ultimate triumph of the Hindus over the Huns and the invasion of India by the 
Moslems was pre-eminently devoted to the further consolidation of our people and their 
religious, cultural, racial and political oneness grew so pronounced, definite and conscious 
that by the time the Moslems came in they found India full grown into a homogeneous Hindu 
people. 


Under the pressure of the Moslem invasions and their consolidation into a powerful 
Moslem Empire at Delhi political unity of the Hindus from Kashmir to Rameshwar and Sindh 
to Bengal intensified still more and the name Hindu derived form the Vaidic Sapta Sindhus 
had already become the honoured and beloved common appellation of our race centuries 
before the days of Prithviraj. Thousands of our martyrs embraced death as 'Hindus' to 
vindicate the honour of Hindu religion. Thousands upon thousands, princes and peasants 
alike, revolted and rose as Hindus under Hindu flags and fought and fell in fighting against 
their non-Hindu foes. Till at last Shivaji was born, the hour of Hindu triumph was struck, the 
day of Moslem supremacy set. Under one common name 'The Hindus', under one common 
banner, the Hindu banner, under one common Hindu leadership, with one common ideal of 
the establishment of 'Hindu-Pad-Padashahi' (The Hindu Empire), with one common aim, the 
political liberation of 'Hindusthan', the emancipation of their common Motherland and 
Holyland, the Hindus rose from province to province till at last the Maratha confederacy 
succeeded in beating to a chip the Moslem Nababs and Nizams, Badashas and Padashas in a 
hundred battlefields. The Marathas advanced victorious East, West, North and South, 
dropping their secondary capitals at Tanjore, at Gunti, at Kolhapur, at Baroda, at Dhar, at 
Gwalior, at Indore, at Jhansi, till they reached the "Trens". They ruled at Delhi and held the 

Moslem Moghul Emperors as prisoners, pensioners and paupers in their camp. The Sikh 
Hindus ruled in Punjab, the Gurkha Hindus in Nepal, the Rajput Hindus in Rajputana, the 
Maratha Hindus form Delhi to Tanjore, Dwarka to jagnnath. Thus at last the Vaidic Sindhus 
had grown into a mighty Hindu people, a Hindu nation, a Hindu-Pada-Padashahi which is a 
word used by Bajirao himself. If you wish to realise fully how the mighty movement was 
surcharged with the intense consciousness of Hindutva, how are martyrs, heroes, victors 
from Prithviraj, Pratap, Shivaji, Guru Govind, Banda, down to the days of Nana Fadanavis 
and Mahadji Shinde owned and gloried in their National and Religious oneness as Hindus, 
and were proud of their national appellation as Hindus !!, you may do well to read, for want 
of a better book, my historical work named 'Hindu-Pad-Padashahi'. Here owing to limited 
space I quote only a stanza from out of a letter, by way of illustration written so late as in 
1793 to Nana Fadanavis by Govindrao Kale, the Maratha Ambassador to the Nizam, so that 
you may listen to their thoughts in their own words '3TCTP 

ff^r g&rsjM i | armtfr tfrw Ri^cHifV^iMi<}dl rzrisfr 

toTcETrer quiwdiLi f^r f?r ddui-Ti^ ikismI ^rrt m3. 

tFqisft ffc£F2Trai^T rqhJt Rfcnsft trflSoff. W Tn^3Tt3ToT pTFM, 

ETrer ET3TT^: cJlofui $dcKH 3TT|TT. 'From the river Attuck to the Indian ocean 


Page 19 of 130 



Hindu Rashtra Darshan 


extends the land of Hindus, Hindusthan, not Turkasthan. These have been our frontiers form 
the times of Pandavas to Vikramaditya. They preserved them and enjoyed Empires. After 
them came effete rulers and the Moslems conquered our Kingdom but now everything has 
been restored to us and rewon under the Peshvas and by the valorous sword of Mahadji 
Shinde ! The Hindu Empire is established, the fame of our victory goes resounding all round 
!' 


The Hindu Nation is an organic growth and no 
Paper-make Makeshift 

7. It will be clear from this hurried peep into our history that ever since the Vaidic 
ages, for some 5,000 years at least, in the past our forefathers had been shaping the 
formation of our people into a religious, racial, cultural and political unit. As a consequence 
of it all, growing organically the Sindhus of the Vaidic time have grown today into Hindu 
Nation, extending over India and holding India in common as their Fatherland and their 
Holyland. No other Nation in the world, excepting perhapes the Chinese, can claim a 
continuity of life and growth so unbroken as our Hindu Nation does. The Hindu Nation is not 
a mushroom growth. It is not a treaty nation. It is not paper-made toy. It was not cut to 
order. It is not an outlandish makeshift. It has grown out of this soil and has its roots struck 
deep and wide in it. It is not a fiction invented to spite the Moslems or anybody in the world. 
But it is a fact as stupendous and solid as the Himalayas that border our North. 

It matters not that it had and it has sects and sections, dissimilarities and differences 
within its fold-what Nation is free from them ? A Nation is not marked out as a separate unit 
because its people have no subdivisions and diversities amongst themselves but because 
they as a whole present a more homogeneous unity amongst themselves than they have in 
common with all other alien national units; because they differ definitely and immensely 
more from all other peoples in the world than they differ amongst themselves from each 
other. This is the only test that marks out nation in the world. The hindus having a common 
Fatherland and a common Holyland and both identified with each other have made their 
nationality doubly sure and stand this test doubly well. As the running outline of our history 
sketched above unmistakably reveals, for thousands of years our Hindu people had been 
definitely conscious of their religious and cultural, political and patriotic homogenity as a 
people by themselves, as a Nation unto themselves. What is to be specially noted here for 
the argument in hand is the fact that down to the fall of the Maratha Empire our people, 
princes, patriots, poets, preachers and statesmen, all and altogether strove consciously and 
continuously to develop and intensify the conception of Hindu nationality and exerted their 
might to its best to establish a 'Hindu-Pad-Padashahi, 1 a Hindu Empire in India, which they 
called Hindusthan, the land of the Hindus. 

I shall leave the thread of this argument here to be resumed later on when I shall 
have to point out its special significance in relation to the problems we have to face today. 

The Rise of the Concept of an Indian Nation 

8. We have traced the organic growth and development of our Hindu Nation to the 
fall of the Maratha Empire in 1818 and the consequent advent of the British rule in India. 
The fall of our Sikh Hindu kingdom also in Punjab enabled the British to establish an 
unchallenged supremacy throughout our country. The British had found that all the bloody 
wars they had to fight in the course of their Indian conquest were with Hindu powers. The 
Moslem as a political factor was nowhere to be faced. The Moslem as a political power was 
already smashed by the Marathas. The only fight the British had to face single-handed with 
the Moslems was at Plassey. But it was such an easy affair that they say the British 
Commander won it while he was asleep ! Consequently, the first anxiety of the British was 


Page 20 of 130 



Hindu Rashtra Darshan 


to see that the Hindu Nation must be undermined, their solidarity as a religious and political 
unit must be broken. The Moslems came in the picture as mere handy tool in the hands of 
the British to compass their design. The British even tried the obvious means of converting 
the Hindus to Christianity by lending political support of the State to Christian Missions in 
India. But the Revolutionary Rising of 1857 led mostly by Hindu leaders opened the eyes of 
the British to the dangers involved in any open attack against the religion of the Hindus and 
Moslems alike and the British State ceased to lend any open support to the Christian Church. 
Then they initiated a policy to undermine the very concept of a Hindu nation amongst the 
rising generation of the Hindu youths by introducing a de-nationalising scheme of Western 
education in India. We have the word of Macaulay himself for that. He points out in one of 
his private letters to his son-in-law that if his scheme of Western education is put into force, 
Hindu youths would of themselves love to get converted to Christianity, to get Westernized 
and consequently affiliated and attached to the British people. Unfortunately for the Hindus 
his expectations did not altogether miscarry and the first generations of the Hindu youths 
who took to Western education with avidity were on the whole cut off from their old 
moorings of Hinduness, of Hindutva. They knew next to nothing of Hindu history, Hindu 
religion, Hindu culture and all that theyknew of Hindutva were only its weak points which 
were deliberately represented to them as its essence in such wise as to make them ashamed 
of being Hindus at all. The Moslems on the contrary kept at a hand's distance from this 
education and consequently it could not undermine their communal solidarity at all. 

But the introduction of the Western education in India did not prove an unmixed evil. 
Contrary to the expectation of its initiators it soon brought in new forces into action which 
were destined to defeat the purpose it was meant to serve and add to the strength of the 
Hindus in the long run. But here we are dealing with its immediate effects only. 

And the immediate effect of the Western education was that the two first generations 
of Hindus who were influenced by it were totally carried off their feet, they fell in love with 
everything Western. They looked upon the Brititsh rule as a Godsend. They prayed for its 
permanence. Fed on the Western literature and history and cut off from any contact with 
Hindu thoughts and Hindu policy, they naturally came to the easy conclusion that if but they 
imitated the West and especially England in every detail of individual and collective life they 
and their country would be benefited and saved. 

Not that they were not public-spirited or intellectual men. On the contrary these first 
batches of English educated Hindus were allowed to rise very high in the social and official 
scale by England and were deliberately taken to be the spokesmen of Indian people-of the 
'Natives'. They got every facility to wield tremendous influence over their own people so that 
they might impart their admiration about the Brititsh people and their loyalty to the British 
rule to their 'Native Community'. They, too, with best of intentions wanted to do good to 
their people and their nation. But their idea 

of doing good and even of what was their nation were entirely outlandish-British-having no 
relation with the realities obtaining in India. 

That was the reason why they naturally thought that their nation meant their country. 
Like all other ideas and sentiments, their notion of patriotism also was borrowed ready-made 
from England. They found that the English meant by patriotism love to their country,-the 
geographical unit England, which they inhabited. All those who lived in England were united 
into a nation irrespective of religion, race, culture, and that was the reason why England had 
become so consolidated and powerful a nation. The analogy was as simple as attractive. If 
they too could unite India irrespective of race, religion, culture, caste, creed, their people too 
might grow into a consolidated and powerful Indian Nation. They found that in Europe of 
their days a national unit meant a territorial unit. All those who inhabited the territorial unit 
France were French, Germany were Germans, Spain were Spanish, England were English and 


Page 21 of 130 



Hindu Rashtra Darshan 


each respectively a Unitary nation by itself. So they thought or rather believed, without 
thinking at all, that the only bond of a territorial unity, the only fact of residing in a common 
geographical unit was by itself the most efficient, nay, the only efficient factor to mark out a 
people into a nation by themselves. 

Well, then, all people in India : Hindus, Moslems, Christians, Parsees and others, had 
been inhabiting the territorial unit called India for centuries together. Therefore, all these 
people must be a nation by themselves. What if they differed so much in religion, language, 
culture, race and historical development ? Those things had nothing to do with a common 
nationality. Territorial unit must be a national unit. Look at England, France, America.' Thus 
they argued. 

The corollary derived from this assumption was also inevitable. If India, becuase it 
was a territorial unit and called a country must be a national unit as well, then all of us must 
also be Indians only and cease to be Hindus or Moslems, Christians or Parsees. So they, the 
leaders of those first generations of English educated people, being almost all Hindus, tried 
their best to cease themselves to be Hindus and thought it below their dignity to take any 
cognizance of the divisions as Hindus and Moslems and became transformed overnight into 
Indian patriots alone. 

It was also very easy for them to cease to be Hindus. The Western education had 

taught them and they had no other education, that Hindutva meant nothing else but 

Hinduism which to them meant a veritable bundle of superstitions. They had no occasion to 
stop and think of the other and most fundamental concepts of Hindutva, of Hinduness, in all 
its racial, cultural and historical bearing. 

As they found it so easy for them to renounce thir Hinduness and merge themselves 
at a thought into being Indian and Indians alone they expected that it would be as easy for 
the Moslems too to forget that they were Moslems and to merge themselves entirely and 
totally into the Indian people, the Indian Nation, which to those 'Indian' Patriots seemed 
already a fact as tangible as the territorial unit India. 

It must be emphasized here that all these our remarks are true in their collective 
sense only. It is not possible to deal with details and exceptions either individual or actional 
in such a short address as this. 

As the Western education went on spreading rapidly amongst Hindus the idea of an 
Indian Nationality also continued to find a larger and larger following; inversely, the solidarity 

of the Hindus as Hindus, as a political unit, as a nation by themselves, grew feebler and 

feebler and at last grew unconscious of itself through sheer starvation. 

The British rejoiced at the turn events had taken. They knew that under those 
circumstances the only danger to their political supremacy in Hindusthan could come from 
the revival of the political consciousness of the Hindu Nation and the re-emergence of the 
ideal of a Hindu Sovereignty. It is a fact that even after 1857 a Hindu politically proud of his 
being a Hindu was a suspect. For he brooded over the loss of his Hindu Kingdom and was 
watched as an incipient revolutionist. The armed rising of Ramsing Kooka in the Punjab and 
Vasudeo Balwant Phadke in Maharashtra even after the defeat of the revolutionary war in 
1857, with a view to drive the British out and recover the lost Hindu Kingdom, only confirmed 
the British in their suspicious. 

The Birth of Indian National Congress 


Page 22 of 130 



Hindu Rashtra Darshan 


9. It was just after the suppression of the rising of Vasudeo Balwant Phadke of 
Poona who aspired to revive an independent Hindu Kingdom even as Shivaji did, that the 
birth of Indian National Congress took place. It is to be noted that the British Government 
favoured the movement and it was a Viceroy who sponsored it ! Many a prominent British 
civilian like Mr. Hume, Wedderburn and others led it for a long time. Great Hindu leaders 
from the most public-spirited motives nursed it and it became the organised and authoritative 
spokesman of the new cult of I ndian Patriotism. 

The British, too, while they favoured this Indian movement as an antidote to any 
possible revival of Hindu Nationalism, took good care to see that the Moslem solidarity as 
Moslems did not suffer in any way by catching the contagion of this new Indian Nationalist 
cult. For the British knew that if the Moslems also joined that cult as wholeheartedly as the 
Hindus did, then there would really be a united Indian Nation-a contingency likely to prove 
perhaps more dangerous to British supremacy in India than a Hindu revival could single- 
handedly prove to be. The British dreaded and hated any real genuine and fruitful rise of 
Indian Nationalism as much-if not more-as they did any revival of Hindu Nationalism. So 
they on the one hand encouraged and helped surreptitously the fanatical hatred, enmity and 
distrust, which the Moslems ever bore to the Hindu Nation, thus rendering any efficient 
Indian national unity as delusive as a mirage and on the other hand encouraged the Hindus, 
at least in the beginning to pursue that mirage of an Indian Nationalism with avidity so that 
the rise of a Homogeneous Hindu Nation might be ruled out of practical politics. Of course it 
is another matter that the result of this British policy of encouraging Indian Nationalism in 
the beginning did not altogether fulfil their expectations and they had to change it later on. 
But that does not belie the fact I have referred to above. 

The Ideal of Indian Nationalism was in fact a Noble one 

10. The Hindus found nothing objectionable in the ideal of uniting all India into a 

consolidated political unit and very naturally so. For it suited well with the Hindu mentality 
with its synthetic trend, always prone to philosophies with a universal urge. It is also true 
that the Ideal of Politics itself ought to be a Human state, all mankind for its citizen, the 
earth for its motherland. If all India with one-fifth of the human race could be united 
irrespective of religious, racial and cultural diversities, merging them all into a homogeneous 
whole, it would be but a gigantic stride taken by mankind towards the realization of that 
human political Ideal. So far as the ideal language and picture of this conception went it 
could not but be attractive to a people like the Hindus with a religious and cultural ideology 
preaching 'TT# all this is but one and indivisible Brahma. But Brahma, even in its 

political aspect, like its philosophical one, has for its counterpart a stftt the principal of 
division ! And this fact those Hindu Patriots overlooked in their enthusiasm for the ideal-if 
India was united !-Yes, but the 'If' was what mattered most. The new concept of an Indian 
Nationality was founded on the only common bond of a territorial unity of India; the Hindus 
for one found nothing revolting even in that assumption to their deepest religious or cultural 
or racial sentiments. Because their national being had already been identified with that 
territorial unit, India, which to them was not only a land of sojourn but a home, their 
Fatherland, their Motherland, their Holyland and all in one ! Indian Patriotism to them was 
but a synonym of Hindu Patriotism. Even the territorial unit was as intimately identified with 
their racial, religious and cultural unit that an Indian Nation was but a territorial appellation 
of the Hindu Nation. If Hindusthan was called India but continute to be a Hindusthan, it 
made no differences in essentials and for practical purposes might be overlooked. 

11. That is the reason why, later on, even those Hindu leaders who in spite of their 
being highly educated in the Western lore were also deeply imbued with Hinduness, were 
proud of being Hindus by religion, by race, by culture and joined the Indian National 


Page 23 of 130 



Hindu Rashtra Darshan 


Movement for political purposes and worked wholeheartedly with the Congress and even led 
it so long as it continued to be a purely political body, striving assiduously to wrest political 
power out of the hands of the British Government with a view to eatablish a real Indian 
commonwealth, to be held in common with other non-Hindu minorities in India on equitable 
footing and in honourable company. 

12. But although the Hindus on the whole rallied round the Indian National Congress 
with unsuspecting enthusiasm and lent their honest devotion to the principle of a Territorial 
nationality that underlay it, that principle seemed to fail miserably in appealing to the 
Moslems in India. As a community they held back from the very beginning and by and by 
began to resent it altogether. The more insistent the Congress demand grew in calling upon 
all Indians to merge their racial and religious individuality into an Indian Nation at any rate 
for forming themselves into a political unit, the more distrustful and enraged the Moslems 
grew. For they instinctively felt that Indian Patriotism as defined by the Congress was sure 
to deal a death blow to Moslem patriotism which was to be all and end all of their racial, 
religious and cultural ambitions. The British Government for their own end encouraged them 
in this their anti-Congress attitude. The higher the Congress rose in political importance 
through the strenuous efforts of our Hindu Patriots and the more insisting grew its demands 
and stronger its power to back them up, the more outspoken and determined became the 
Moslem opposition to it, and the more assiduous grew the encouragement and surreptitious 
assistance to it on the part of the British Government who came to realize to their 
discomfiture that their policy of bringing into being the Indian National Congress movement 
had in the long end miscarried their expectations in a large measure. 

13. I am the last man to ignore the benefits that even we Hindus reaped from the 
Indian National Congress movement even from the Hindu point of view. It had though only 
consequentially and without that special end in view, contributed immensely to the 
consolidation of Hindudom as a whole by rubbing off their provincial, linguistic and sectional 
angularities, divisions and diversities, provided them with a consciousness of a common 
political platform and animated them with the consciousness of a common National being 
with a definite common goal of a united and central state. Errors that crept in may be 
rectified but the good that came out need not be disowned. Nor do I decry the introduction 
of Western education in India. In spite of the questionable intentions of the British in its 
inception we Hindus have succeeded in turning the tables in the long run and are now in the 
position to give a good and profitable account of our contact with the West. 

14. But the point to be specially emphasized here is the fact that just as the benefit 
we Hindus reaped out of our contact with the West or the receiving English education 
through the Government universities, was in spite of the evil intentions of the British 
Government, even so the good that accured to us Hindus contributing to the further 
consolidation of our Hindu Nation was not in virtue of the new cult of Indian Nationality or 
the proclaimed intentions of the Indian National Congress but in spite of its efforts direct or 
implied to suppress our racial and religious consciousness as Hindus. The territorial patriots 
wanted us to cease to be Hindus at least as a 

national and political unit. Some of them actually gloried in disowning themselves as Hindus 
at all ! They were merely Indians, thinking that they had set a very patriotic example in that 
which they fancied would persuade the Moslems too to renounce their communal being and 
also merge themselves in that territorial Indian Nation beyond recognition ! 

15. But the Moslems remained Moslems first, Moslems last and Indians never ! They 
sat on the fence as long as the deluded Hindus kept struggling with the British to wrest 
political rights for all Indians alike, going to the prisons in lakhs, to the Andamans in 
thousands, to the gallows in hundreds. And as soon as the unarmed agitation carried on by 
the Congressite Hindus on the one hand and the more dreadful and more effective life and 


Page 24 of 130 



Hindu Rashtra Darshan 


death struggle carried on by the armed Hindu revolutionists outside the Congress on the 
other, brought sufficient pressure on the British Government and compelled them to hand 
over some substantial political power to the Indians, the Moslems jumped down the fence 
and claimed 'they also were Indians, they must have their pound of flesh !!' Till at last things 
came to such a pass that the proposal to divide India itself into two parts-the Moslem India 
and the Hindu India was blatantly put forward and their readiness to ally themselves with 
non-Indian Moslem nation against the Hindus was avowed by no less a representative 
Moslem body than the Moslem League. This was the sorry fate which the hopes of these 
Hindu patriots who from the best of motives but with a thoughtless belief and the blindest of 
policies persisted in their efforts of consolidating all Indians into one undivided and indivisible 
Indian Nation, irrespective of religions, races and cultures based only on the common bond 
of a territorial unity ! 


Territorial Unity is not the only Constituent of 
a Common Nationality 

16. What was then the root cause which brought about this miserable failure of the 
efforts of the Congress during the last full fifty years to placate the Moslems to allow 
themselves to be merged into a united Indian Nation ? To persuade them to be, at any rate, 
Indians first and Moslems afterwards ? Not that the Moslems do not like to form a united 
Indian Nation; but their conception of unity, national unity of India is not based on her 
territorial unity at all. If any Moslem had given out his mind in the most intelligible terms 
possible, it was Ali Musaliar, the leader of the Mopla rebellion. I n justification of his atrocious 
campaign of forcibly converting thousands of Hindus or putting them to sword-women, men, 
children-at a stroke, he proclaimed that India must be united into a Nation and the only way 
to bring about lasting Hindu Moslem unity could not be other than that all Hindus should 
become Moslems ! Those Hindus who refused to do so were traitors to the cause of Indian 
unity and deserved death !! Thus the unsophisticated Ali Musaliar spoke bluntly in his 
mother-tongue. Polished Moslems like Mohamed Ali and others speak in elegant Latin and 
Greek, but the purport is the same. Not territorial unity but it is the religious, racial and 
cultural unity that counts most in the formation of a National unit. Congress failed to realise 
this and this was the root cause of its failure in this matter. 

Congress committed the serious mistake at its very start of overlooking this 
fundamental, social and political principle that in the formation of Nations, religious, racial, 
cultural and historical affinities count immensely more than their territorial unity, the fact of 
having a common habitat. That also is one of the factors but in almost all cases cannot be 
the only factor. The example of England and some other European national units which put 
the Hindu founders of the Indian National Cogress on the wrong track as we have explained 
above in section eight of this address, was not rightly understood. England has not grown 
into such a homogeneous national unit only because it is a clear-cut territorial unit. Their 
territorial Patriotism is not the cause but a consequence of their other social and political 
affinities. England, for example, was as a clear-cut territorial unit in days gone by. But when 
their religious, susceptibilities were highly irritable, the English Catholics and Protestants felt 
themselves drawn more to their respective co-religionists outside England than their own 
countrymen inside it. The English Catholics cared more for the Pope in Rome than their 
Protestant English Sovereigns in England. The English Protestant invited William from 
Holland to rule over them instead of and English King of Roman Catholic persuasion. Take 
again the case of Holland. The Hollanders, in spite of their territorial unity, during the 
Religious phase of their history could not be united into a homogeneous nation. The Catholic 
Hollanders joined Spain against their own Protestant Prince William of Orange. Take the 
case of Austria-Hungary. There was nothing notable to divide them territorially. They were 
welded together into an imperial unit and continued to be a political unit under a common 


Page 25 of 130 



Hindu Rashtra Darshan 


state for centuries. But here there were no racial, cultural, linguistic or historical affinities to 

draw them towards each other as to be a nation in heart. So they 

seperated as national and political units as soon as a favourable opportunity arose. 

Nor could it be said 'Oh ! this your racial and religious boss is already a thing of the 
past. The world is grown wiser since. No up-to-date man cares a fig for them today, 1 To 
this commonplace exclamation we rejoin. Are the Hindu Moslem Indians more up-to-date 
than the Germans or the Irish of today ? Are not the latter amongst the most advanced, 
educated and up-to-date nations of the world ? But do you find that territorial unity counts 
with the Germans or the Irish more even today than the affinities of a common race, 
language, culture or history ? 

The latest cases of the Sudetan Germans 
and Ulsterites 

The Sudetan Germans and say the Prussian Germans knew no common political 
nationality for a long period. They were not a common people as a State. When the 
enemies of Germany hit her hard they cut her into pieces and created a patchwork of a 
'Nation' and compassed it into a territorial unit called Czechoslovakia making a mess of the 
Sudetan Germans, Poles, Hungarians, Czechs, Slovaks, etc. Did they form a Nation ? 
Sudetan Germans longed to be one with the Prussian Germans in spite of their being mapped 
out of it as a territorial unit and revolted against the Czechs who were their next-door 
neighbours in spite of their being mapped toghther into a territorial and political unit and 
went over to the Prussians even at the risk of their life-why ? Not because Sudetan Germans 
had a more definite territorial affinity with the Prussian Germans than they had with the 
Czechs or Slovaks but because they had linguistic, cultural, racial and historical affinities with 
the Germans in Germany and gloried in being a part and parcel of the German people. Note, 
on the othere hand, that the German-Jews had been not only inhabiting the German land for 
centuries together with Germans, bound together with the Germans by the common bond of 
a territorial unit, but had been actually incorporated into a common State, were actually 
Germans in political parlance, exercised equal rights as citizens of Germany-nay dominated 
the German State, as members of the National German legislature and executive. 

Take again the Irish case. Ireland and England were political unit and continued to 
have a common state and common Parliament for centuries together. The English lived in 
Ireland for generations inter-marrying, inter-dining, speaking the same tongue 'English'. The 
Ulsterite English and Irish have the common bond of territorial unity and a distinctly marked 
out Ireland as a common country. Their religion too is common. Nor is Ireland a very big 
continental territorial unit. It is hardly as big as a presidency in India. But did all these 
common factors, a common and so closed a habitat as Ireland the English the Irish mould 
into a common nation ? No I the Irish revolted, despised the imperial advantages they had 
in common with England, revived their own Irish tongue which was well nigh dead and 
organized a separate Irish National State. The Ulsterite English on the contrary refused to 
have any National relation with her next-door Irishman with whom he has lived for centuries 
and pines for his union with his English brothren whose face he might have never seen and 
who reside seas apart from him. Why ? Because between the Irish and the English the want 
of common racial , cultural and historical affinities repulses each other more than a mere 
territorial unity can attract. 


It is not only a political fact but 
a Human one 


Page 26 of 130 



Hindu Rashtra Darshan 


17. These few illustrations even of up-to-date Nations will show that in almost all 
cases a common territorial unit, a common habitat, cannot by itself weld peoples differing in 
religious, racial, cultural and such other affinities into a national unit. It is not only a political 
fact but a human one that religious, racial, cultural, linguistic or historical affinities make men 
feel more akin to each other than the only fact of their residing in a common habitat unless 
that is an addition to these common ties. This tendency of people having these affinities to 
form themselves into a group or into a Nation and not by the mere fact of bing mapped 
together, has its roots deep down in human or even animal nature. But we are not called 
upon here to go into any psychology of it. Suffice it to say that the efficient factor that 
constitutes people into an organic nation is their will to be one homogeneous national unit. 
And this will is induced by such of those affinities as we have indicated above far more 
eminently and intensely than by the mere fact of their residing in a common country. 

Have the Indian Moslems, then, that will: 
to be one with the Hindus. 

18. That is the question of questions and the Congressite Hindus at the beginning of 
the Indian National Movement never waited a minute to ponder over it not do they even 
today take it into their head even during the interval when they adjourn the National 
Congress for hours in deference to the Moslem prayer times. It is useless simply to declare 
the Moslem League 

communal. That is no news. The fact is that the whole Moslem community is communal 
including the Congressite Moslems. The question that ought to be understood is why are 
they so communal ? The Congressite Hindus from the vary beginning simply dared not study 
that question. Because they feared that such a study would compel their fad of a territorial 
Nationality of Indian unity in the sense they understand it, to give up the ghost ! 
'Fanaticism-Folly' you exclaim ? But Fanaticism or Folly-it is to the Moslems a solid fact. And 
you cannot get over it by calling it names but must face it as it stands. To my mind for 
reasons alluded to above, it is quite human for the Moslem to bear instinctive apathy to the 
idea of a territorial nationality, as envisaged by the Congressites who in general are totally 
ignorant of Moslem history, theology and political trend of mind. This antipathy of the Indian 
Moslems can be seen through right perspective if you bear at least the following facts in 
mind- 


fa) The Moslems in general and Indian Moslems in particular have not as yet grown 
out of the historical stage, of intense religiosity and the theological concept of state. 

(b) Their theology and theocratical politics divide the human world into two groups 
only; The Moslem land and the enemy land. All lands which are either entirely inhabited by 
the Moslems or are ruled over by the Moslems are Moslem lands. All lands which are mostly 
inhabited by non-Moslem power are enemy lands and no faithful Moslem is allowed to bear 
any loyalty to them and is called upon to do everything in his power by policy or force or 
fraud to convert the non-Moslem there to Moslem faith, to bring about its political conquest 
by a Moslem power. It is no good quoting 

sentences here or there from Moslem theological books to prove the contrary. Read the 
whole book to know its trend. And again it is not with books that we are concerned here but 
with the followers of the book and how they translate them in practice. You will then see 
that the whole Moslem history and their daily actions are framed on the design I have 
outlined above. Consequently, a territorial patriotism is a word unknown to the Moslem-nay 
is tabooed, unless in connection with a Moslem territory. Afghans can be patriots for 
Afghanisthan is a Moslem territory today. But an Indian Moslem if he is a real Moslem-and 
they are intensely religious as a people-cannot faithfully bear loyalty to India as a country, as 
a nation, as a State, because it is today 'an Enemy Land' and doubly lost; for non-Moslems 
are in a majority here and to boot it is not ruled by any Moslem power, Moslem sovereign. 


Page 27 of 130 



Hindu Rashtra Darshan 


(c) Add to this that of all non-Moslems the Hindus are looked upon as the most 
damned by Moslem theologians. For Christians and Jews are after all 'Kitabis, 1 having the 
holy books partially in common. But the Hindus are totally 'Kafirs' as a consequence their 
land 'Hindusthan' is pre-eminently an 'enemy' and as long as it is not ruled by Moslems or all 
Hindus do not embrace Islam. This is the religious mentality of the Indian Moslems who still 
live and move and have their being in religiosity. There are some of them like Mohamed Ali 
and others who in their individual capacity are not so religious minded but who nevertheless, 
encourage this mentality in their masses as a very suitable, political, racial and cultural 
weapon. What wonder then that the Moslem League should openly declare its intention to 
join hands with non-Indian alien Moslem countries rather than with Indian Hindus in forming 
a Moslem Federation ? They could not be accused from their point of view of being traitors 
to Hindusthan. Their conscience was clear. They never looked upon our today's 
'Hindusthan' as their country, nation. It is to them already an alien land, and enemy land-'a 
Dar-ul-Harb' and not a 'Dar-ul-lslam!!' 

(d) This is the religious and living mentality to the Moslems. Consequently, their 
political and cultural mentality also is essentially anti-Hindu and is bound to do so as long as 
they continue to be Moslems and 'the faithfuls.' They are vividly conscious of the fact that 
they entered India as conquerors and subjected the Hindus to their rule. They are also 
gifted with a curious memory that is supremely oblivious of all events which remind them of 
their defeats and discomfitures. They will never remember that the Hindus beat them like a 
clip in a hundred battlefields in India and had in the long run freed all India from the Moslem 
yoke and re-established Hindu-Pad-Padashahi' as indicated above in section six of this 
address. They know, that they form a powerful minority in India. Their population is 
growing in every successive census report. What is to be especially noted by our Hindu 
Sanghatanist party is the fact that some of our Hindu superstitious and suicidal social 
customs like the untouchability, the ban on shuddhi, on widow remarriages, etc., etc., offer 
them a fertile field for Moslem proselytisation and convertion. So under the present 
circumstances they rightly hope to increase their population and decrease the Hindus with 
equal rapidity. They know that the British are sure for a long time to come, to offer them 
every facility and help to strengthen the Moslem position against the Hindus whose rise and 
political ambitions the British wholeheardedly dread. They are also sure that the Congressite 
Hindus in their persuit of the silly fad of bringing about a Hindu Moslem unity in India based 
on the impossible common bond of a territorial unity only, are certain to yield to Moslem 
demands with an amount of Moslem browbeating as regards weightages, special and larger 
representation, etc. and especially in suppressing the Hindu Sanghatan movemnet that is at 
present the only thorn in their sides. They realise that in the Indian army and the armed 
police, they the Moslems in spite of their being in minority are already the predominant factor 
holding some 60% jobs. With all these factors in their favour they are fully confident, wisely 
or unwisely, that in case the British are overpowered in some big world war, the Moslems 
with the help of the non-Indian Moslem powers bordering our country may snatch out the 
political sovereignty of India out of the British hands and re-establish a Moslem Empire here. 
Then alone they can and will love India as their own country as a 'Moslem land' and sing 
wholeheartedly by themselves 'Bharat Hamara Desh Hai !!' or 'Hindusthan Hamara Desh Hai.' 
But till then it must 

remain 'an enemy land' to the Moslem-to the faithful. I wish the British also to take a serious 
note of the fact indicated at the close of this last paragraph and curtail their policy of 
encouraging Moslems too much in their anti-Hindu activities. In view of the open 
declaration of the Moslem league to divide India into two parts, inviting the alien Moslem 
nations from outside India to form Moslem Federation and raise an Independent Moslem 
Kingdom in India, the British also should think twice before they trust their 'Favoured wife' 
too much just to spite the Hindus. The harem intrigues in Moslem history are well known 
and the British may find in the end that in their attempt to encourage this their 'Favoured 


Page 28 of 130 



Hindu Rashtra Darshan 


wife 1 just to spite the Hindus the British have but succeeded in spliting themselves. 
Nevertheless that concerns the British and they can take care of themselves. What concerns 
us Hindus is the fact that we get determined not to play the part of a handmaid either to the 
British or to the Moslems but are masters in our own house, Hindusthan, the land of the 
Hindus. 


With this end in view what should be our 
immediate Programme 

19. Knowing it then for certain that the Indian Moslem, for reasons some of which 
are referred to above, are about the last people to join the Hindus in forming any common 
political Nation on equal footing in India based on the only common bond of our territorial 
unity, out of a merely territorial Indian. Patriotism, let us-Hindu Sanghatanist-first correct 
the original mistake, the original political sin which our Hindu Congressites most unwillingly 
committed at the beginning of the Indian National Congress movement and are persistently 
committing still of running after the mirage of a territorial Indian Nation and of seeking to kill 
as an impediment in that fruitless pursuit the lifegrowth of an organic Hindu Nation. Let us - 
Hindus- resume the thread of our national life where, as I have shown in section seven of 
this address, our grandfathers left it at the fall of our Maratha and Sikh Hindu Empires. The 
live and organic growth of the self-conscious Hindu Nation that was suddenly struck with an 
atrophy of self-forgetfulness must again be revived, resurrected. Let us, therefore, boldly 
reproclaim even in the words of Govindrao Kale who wrote them so early as 1793 in his letter 
quoted in section six above that the land which extends form the Indus to the Southern seas 
in Hindusthan-the land of the Hindu and we Hindus are the Nation that owns it. If you call it 
an Indian Nation it is merely an English Synonym for the Hindu Nation. To us Hindus, 
Hindusthan and India mean one and the same thing. We are Indians because we are Hindus 
and vice versa. 

Yes, we Hindus are a Nation by ourselves. Because religious, racial, cultural and 
historical affinities bind us intemately into a homogeneous nation and added to it we are 
most pre-eminently gifted with a territorial unity as well. Our racial being is identified with 
India-our beloved Fatherland and our Holyland above all and irrespective of it all we Hindus 
will to be a Nation and, therefore, we are a Nation. None has a right to challenge or demand 
a proof of our common nationality when some thirty crores of us Hindus are with it. 

It is absurd to call us a community in India. The Germans are the Nation in Germany 
and the Jews a Community. The Turks are the Nation in Turky and Arab or the Armenian 
minority a community. Even so the Hindus are the Nation in India-in Hindusthan, and the 
Moslem minority a community. 

Referring to the Sudetan Germans the leaders of the Moslem League threatened us 
the other day at their Karachi session that if their demands in overriding the Hindus are not 
granted in India they would play the part of the Sudetan Germans and call in their Moslems 
co-religionists power across the border inside India to their help as the Sudetan Germans 
called the Germans in Sudetan land. To that threat I retort that our friends in the Moslem 
League should not cry till they are out of the woods. They should remember that their 
illustration cuts both ways. If they grow stronger they can play the part of the Sudetan 
Germans alright. But if we Hindus in India grow stronger in time these Moslem friends of the 
league type will have to play the part of German-Jews instead. We Hindus have taught the 
Shakas and the Huns already to play that part pretty well. So it is no use bandying words till 
the test comes. The test of the pudding is in its eating. 

Indian Nationalism also is Communa/ism 
in relation to Humanity 


Page 29 of 130 



Hindu Rashtra Darshan 


20. If to such an outspoken attitude of being a Hindu Nationalist on your part, an 
Indian Nationalist of the Congress type raises the objection. 'Oh, but do you not see how 
narrow minded it is to think of Hindus and Moslems, this race or religion and that in sectarian 
mood ? Man to man we all are one. Let us think of universal brotherhood alone. 

Then inquire of him in return 'Brother, universal brotherhood we Hindus adore even 
to a fault. But will you tell us, Oh Indian Nationalist, why you think of this nation and that, 
why think of an Indian Nationality in a sectarian sense ?' Is it because India is a territorial 
unit ? But then there are other territorial units in the world. Why are you an Indian patriot 
and not an Abyssinian one and go there and fight for their freedom ? It is precisely because 
by company and education you feel yourselves more akin to the Indian people in virtue of 
racial or religious or cultural affinities than you feel at home with other nationalities-although 
you may not be aware of this reason. Verily you worship a God you know not. Nor you 
know that Indian or any patriotism cannot but be communal in relation to huminity; for 
nationality is as strong a principle of human division as is a racial or religious or cultural 
community. 


Hindu Nationalists should not at all be apologetic 
to being called Hindu Communalists ! 

21. The fact is that Nationalism and Communalism are in themselves either equally 
justifiable and humane or not. Nationalism when it is aggressive is as immoral in human 
relation as is Communalism when it tries to suppress the equitable rights of other 
communities and tries to usurp all to itself. But when Communalism is only defensive, it is as 
justifiable and humane as an equitable Nationalism itself. The Hindu nationalists do not aim 
to usurp what belongs to others. Therefore, even if they be called Hindu communalists they 
are justifiably so and are about the only real Indian Nationalist. For, a real and justifiable 
Indian Nationalism must be equitable to all communities that compose the Indian Nation. 
But for the same reason the Moslems alone are communalists in an unjustifiable, anti¬ 
national and treacherous sense of the term. For it is they who want to usurp to themselves 
all that belongs to otheres. The Indial National Congress only condemns itself as an anti¬ 
national body when it calls in the same breath the Hindau Mahasabha and the Moslem 
League as bodies equally communal in the reprehensible on treacherous sense of that term. 
Consequently if to defend the just an equitable rights of Hindus in their own land is 
communalism then we are communalists par excellence and glory in being the most devoted 
Hindu communalists which to us means being the truest and the most equiatble Indian 
Nationalists ! 

22. Having determined then once for all to revive the concept of an Organic Hindu 
Nation and regenerate its life growth as the first item of our immediate programme the 
second and consequent item must be to review every action and every event in public life 
form the only stand point of Hindu Interests without mincing matters at all. From the local 
details of the music and the mosque questions right up to the question of Indian Fedration 
and from the internal Indian political policy to our foreign and international policy and 
relations we shall openly and separately take up a stand as Hindus and support, oppose or 
take every step in the interests of Hindudom alone. Our politics henceforth will be purely 
Hindu politics fashioned and tested in Hindu terms only, in such wise as will help the 
consolidation, freedom and life growth of our Hindu Nation. 

23. The third item in our immediate programme will be a re-declaration of our 
attitude to the question of Indian unity even in its territorial aspect. In its own interests the 
Hindu Nation does not shut the door to any possibility of a united Indian Nation provided it is 
based on an equitable and equal footing. The Hindus will ever be ready to grant equal rights 


Page 30 of 130 



Hindu Rashtra Darshan 


and representation to all minor communities in India in legislatures and services, civil and 
political life in proportion to population and merit. The Hindus although they are in 
overwhelming majority will still waive their right of claiming any preferential treatment, and 
special prerogatives which in fact in every other nation are due to the major community. But 
the Hindus will never tolerate the absurd and the unheard of claim of the minorities to have 
any preferential treatment, weightages or special favours over and above what the major 
community obtains. The Hindu nation will go so far as to accept the equitable national 
principle of 'one man one vote 1 irrespective of religion or race or culture in the formation of a 
common Indian State; but it shall knock on the head any political demand that claims, 'One 
Moslem three votes' and 'three Hindus one vote !' or any cultural demand that antagonises or 
insults or suppresses Hindu culture in its historical, linguistic, religious or racial aspect. The 
minorities will be free to follow their religion, speak their language, develop their culture 
amongst themselves provided it does not infringe on the equal rights of others or is not 
opposed to public peace and morality. If the Moslem join us on these equitable conditions 
and bear undivided loyalty to the Indian State and the Indian State alone well and good. 
Otherwise our formula holds good, 'If you come with you, if you don't, without you; but if 
you oppose in spite of you, we Hindus will fight out the good battle of achieving the 
independence of India and herald the rebirth of a free and mighty Hindu Nation in 
near 
future !' 


24. Our foreign policy also will be guided from an outspoken and unalloyed Hindu 
point of view. All those nations who are friendly or likely to be helpful to Hindu Nation will be 
our friends and allies. All those who will opose the Hindu Nation or are likely to endanger 
Hindu interests will be opposed by us. All those who do neither, we will observe a policy of 
neutrality towards them, irrespective of any political ism they choose to follow for 
themselves. No academic and empty slogans of democracy or Nazim or Fascism can be the 
guiding principle of our foreign policy. Hindu interests alone will be our test. No more 
'Khilafats or Palestine afats' can dupe us into suicidal sympathies and complications. Our 
relations with England also will be guided by the same Hindu policy, having the absolute 
political independence of the Hindu Nation in view. 

25. Towards the minorities our attitude under the present circumstances must be 
differential. The Hindus will assure them all that we hate none, neither the Moslem nor the 
Christians nor the Indian Europeans but henceforth we shall take good care to see that none 
of them dares to hate or belittle the Hindus also. Amongst the minorities 

The Parsees are by race, religion, language and culture most akin to us. They have 
greatfully been loyal to India and have made her their only home. They have produced 
some of the best Indian patriots and revolutionists like Dada Bhai and Madam Cama. They 
will have to be and therefore, shall be incorporated into the common Indian State with 
perfectly equal rights and trust. 

The Christian minority is civil, has no extra-territorial political designs against India, is 
not linguistically and culturally averse to the Hindus and therefore, can be politically 
assimilated with us. Only in religion they differ from us and are a proselytising church. So in 
that matter alone the Hindus must be on their guard and give the missionaries no blind 
latitude to carry on their activities beyond voluntary and legitimate bases. It is only in our 
Travancore State that the Christian seem to cherish some political design against the Hindu 
State and it is only there that we shall have to treat them with some political distrust by not 
allowing them too much latitude in the State affairs and offices, till they too cease to be 
political suspects to the Hindus as the Christians in other parts of India have ceased to be. 


Page 31 of 130 



Hindu Rashtra Darshan 


As to the JEWS in India, they are too few, have given us no political or cultural 
troubles and are not in the main a proselytising people, they will to be friendly towards to 
Hindus who have sheltered them when homeless and can be easily assimilated in a common 
I ndian State. But this fact must not land us again into the suicidal generosity our forefathers 
had been guilty of in other cases of inviting colonies of non-Hindus to India. With every 
sympathy with the Jews outside India, the Hindus must therefore, oppose the present 
Congressite proposal of inviting or allowing any new Jewish colony to settle in India. India 
must be a Hindu land, reserved for the Hindus. While our own Hindu overpopulation in some 
parts of India is hard pressed to find land for extention, how absurd it is to invite non-Hindu 
colonies to settle in our thinly populated parts ! How ridiculous it is to find some 
Congressites preaching birth-control to restrict our own population in order to avoid 
overcrowding and start straightaway to invite Jewish colonies to settle in India. We must 
exhort our esteemed Divan of Cochin in particular to take a leaf out of the history of 
Travancore and set his face sternly against any proposal or outside pressure to allow the 
alien Jews to colonize the lands of Cochin. 

So far as the Moslem minority is concerned, I have already dealt with it at length. In 
short we must watch it in all its actions with the greatest distrust possible. Granting them on 
the one hand every equitable treatment which an Indian citizen can claim on an equality of 
footing with another, we must sternly refuse them any the least preferential treatment in any 
sphere of life-religious, cultural or political. Not only while we are engaged in our struggle 
for liberating India but even after India is free we must look upon them as suspicious friends 
and take great care to see that the Northern Frontiers of India are well guarded by staunch 
and powerful Hindu forces to avoid the possible danger of the Indian Moslem going over to 
the alien Moslem nations across the Indus and betraying our Hindusthan to our non-Hindu 
foes. 


But, how to bell the Cat ? 

26. While listening to all this and agreeing with me as to the efficacy of this Hindu 
policy in future, every Hindu Sanghatanist here must have been weighed down with one 
single question. 'But how are we to bell the Cat ? How to raise ways and means to put this 
policy into practice ? How are we to enable ourselves to be in so strong a position as to 
shape events to our liking in face of the overwhelming predicaments and powerlessness in 
which the Hindu Sanghatanist movement is struck today ?' I tell you don't be down-hearted. 
The most efficient weapon is already lying close at hand, only stretch out your hand in the 
right direction and you grasp it. Let us just 

begin at the beginning and- 

Capture the Political Power that obtains 
in India today 

27. If but the Hindu Sanghatanists capture the seats that are allotted to the Hindus 
under the present constitution in Municipalities, Boards and Legislatures you will find that a 
sudden lift is given to the Hindu movement so as to raise it to an incredible power in relation 
to your present all-round helplessness. 'It is a bigger order still.' You may explain. 'How are 
we to capture even that political power which is allotted to the Hindus today ? In a fit of 
self-forgetfulness it is we Hindus who resigned that power into the hands of the 
Congressites. It is true that we Hindus made the Congress what it is ! But it has now 
suddenly turned against us who raised it to a position of power over some seven provinces in 
India ! Now the very concept of a Hindu Nation stinks in its nostrils, it has already declared 
the Hindu Mahasabha a communal and reprehensible body and ordered millions of 
Congressite Hindus not to have anything to do with it. It may be that one of those days it 
may proclaim the Hindu Sanghatan movement itself as an act of high treason against the 


Page 32 of 130 



Hindu Rashtra Darshan 


Congress fad of an Indian territorial Patriotism. But it is now grown too strong for us to 
dislodge it from its position and compel it to yield back the political power which as of right 
was due to us Hindus alone.' 

I know that this difficulty stares every Hindu Sanghatanist in the fact all over India. It 
is true that the Cogress looks today like a veritable anti-Hindu tower of strength-but I assure 
you it is a painted one ! Approach and touch the canvas and you will find it !! 

Let the Hindu Sanghatanists boycott the Congress 
and it will come to its senses in no time !! 

28. Before we proceed to indicate the easiest remedy to capture the political power 
and disable the Congress from doing any practical harm to the Hindu Sanghatan movement 
let us declare in unmistakable terms that we are not out to spite the Congress Institution 
itself, nor the leaders and followers thereof. Mr. Jinnah is quite correct in stating that the 
Congress has been since its inception down to this day a Hindu body manned mostly by the 
Hindu brains, Hindu money, and Hindu sacrifice. Even today some of them are noble 
patriots. They are erring but cannot be wicked and almost all of them are our own kith and 
kin. The few Moslems there, although they are allowed to boss the Congress policy at times 
through the suicidal folly of the Hindu leaders, are but nonentities, are kept there merely as 
figureheads to run the poor show of a 'United Indian Nation.' We are out not to spite the 
Congress as an institution but to chastise its anti-Hindu policy, to cure it of the intolerable 
hypocracy which is all the more harmful for its strutting about under the mask of Truth, 
Truth absolute and nothing but Truth, with its lathi charges and English bayonets going 
merrily hand in hand with non-violence, non-violence absolute and nothing but non-violence 
in thought, word and deed !! 

So under the present circumstances the Congress has compelled us to disown it and 
divest it of all power to represent the Hindus in any aspect or capacity whatsoever. They 
have foolishly challenged the Hindu Community and the Hindu Mahasabha and we must take 
up the challenge. 

J ust think, Oh Hindu Sanghatanists, on what meat does this Congress feed that it has 
grown so great ? Only remember that the Congress draws all its supplies-men, money and 
votes, from the Hindus. Then cut off those supplies and the position which the Congress has 
taken against the Hindus and which seems to be so impregnable will be untenable in no 
time. 


All the national importance and political power that the Congress has come to wield 
today in India and the ministries and majorities it holds in legislatures are but derived from 
the Hindu Electorate. The Congressite Hindu cannot get a single Mohammedan vote, for the 
constitution itself is communal. The Mohammedan can vote only for a Mohammedan, the 
Christians for a Christian and so on. Congressite-and they are mostly Hindus-can but get 
them elected to the legislature, boards and municipalities, on the strength of the Hindu 
votes. If the Hindus make it a point not to vote for a Congress ticket, then ? Not a single 
Congressman can be returned to either a local body or a legislature ! They stand on Hindu 
shoulders as Hindu candidates and as soon as they raise themselves to those high places 
they kick the Hindus back, disown the Hindus, call Hindu organizations as communal and, 
therefore, reprehensibly betray Hindu interestsat every turn but keep dancing attendance on 
the Moslem League. But if you withdraw that your shoulder, that your support, then ? You 
will find that political power and public importance of the Congress as dead as 
a door-nail. They call themselves Indian Nationalists ! But every step they take is communal 
. They have guaranteed special protection to minorities-Moslems, Christians, Europeans, etc. 
Is that Indian Nationalism ? A true Indian Nationalist must know nothing of Moslems and 


Page 33 of 130 



Hindu Rashtra Darshan 


Hindus, minorities and majorities. To him all must be Indians only. Why do they then take 
cognisance of communities, religious or racial, in India ? And if they can take cognisance of 
the communal minorities then why do they fight so shy to take cognisance of the major 
community, the Hindus, or call those who do so as reprehensible communalists ? Nay more, 
a true Indian Nationalists, if honest, will never go abegging for votes from a constituency 
which is openly tabulated as general that means non-Moslem, non-Christian, etc. That is an 
electorate which is not national. A truly Indian National electorate must be only an 'Indian' 
electorate pure and simple without the least mention of the unnational and unreasonable 
differences of race or religion. If our Congressites are true and conscientious Indian 
Nationalist they ought to refuse forthwith to stand as candidates to election under this 
communal electoral roll and resign and run that ordeal ? None, none ! Next election when 
they come to your Hindu doors to beg for votes tell them in all honesty and humility 'Sirs 
Congressmen you are Indian Nationalists; but I am a Hindu and this is a Hindu Electorate ? 
Then how can you accept a vote so tainted by communalism ? Please go to a truly 'Indian 
Nationalist electorate', to beg for votes wherever you may find it; and if you find it nowhere 
in the world today please wait till a pure and simple and truly 'Indian electorate,' comes into 
being !' Do you think you will find a dozen congress candidates honest enough to do so ? 
None, none ! 

Then again every candidate under the present constitution has to write his religion 
and even caste. Then only can he be drafted out to separate electorates, Hindus, Moslems, 
Christians, etc. These Congress candidates in the election season quietly write down their 
community as Hindus ! They mark down Hindu homes even according to castes-Brahmins, 
Marathas, Bhangis, etc. and then allot their candidates according to their castes to the caste 
voters so that he may pool up larger votes. They appeal even to caste pride and caste 
hatred. In the electional season they are communalists of the worst type. But as soon as 
the election season is over the Congress candidate dons on again his Indian National robes 
and hits back the very Hindu who paid him his vote as a Hindu that it is a shame for a Hindu 
to call himself a Hindu, and to be a member of the Hindu Mahasabha ! 

But if you once make it quite clear that you as Hindus are not going to vote for any 
such seasonal Hindu but only for a Hindu who is born and bred and means to continue to be 
true to his Hindu race even after the election season is over and if once these gentlemen 
know for certain that they can never be elected on Hindu votes unless they are members of 
the Hindu Mahasabha-what do you think will happen ? I assure you that 75 per cent of 
these Indian Nationalists will vie with each other to register themselves as members of the 
Hindu Mahasabha overnight and vow to be Hindus even fanatically throughout their life 
rather than lose a chance of being members and ministers and somebodies in the 
Government Secretariats ! 

Then the only way which is also unbelievably easy, not only to chastise Congress 
Nationalist fad but even to raise Hindudom to incalculably powerful position in the land at a 
stroke is under the present circumstances this,- 

(1) Boycott the Congress; (2) Don't vote for the Congress ticket; and (3) Vote only for 
a confirmed and merited Hindu Nationalist. 

29. Let no Hindu Sanghatanist pay a single farthing or lend a single member or 
register a single vote for the Congress ticket. We know by experience that even a staunch 
Hindu has to act against Hindu interests as soon as he is tainted by a Congress ticket under 
the Congress discipline and for the selfish fear that he would otherwise lose his job. When 
once the Congressites know that the Congress cap or ticket is at a serious discount in the 
Hindu market, is no royal road to the councils or local bodies you will find that the Hindu 
caps will sell like hot cakes and Hindu Sabha tickets will rise in an unsupplyable demand ! 


Page 34 of 130 



Hindu Rashtra Darshan 


30. In a nutshell the position is this : there is a Moselm electorate to protect the 
Moslem interests. There is a Hindu electorate in fact, though it is named to spite the Hindus 
as 'general' which we can use to protect Hindu interests. The Moslems being in majority in 
some three provinces they took good care to see that only those Moslems were elected on 
their votes who pledged openly to save Moslems interests alone. We Hindus are in majority 
in some seven provinces; we sillily handed over our votes to those some of whom blatantly 
proclaimed they were not Hindus at all and all of whom promised that they were not going to 
safeguard the special interests of Hindus, not even the just and equitable interests of Hindus, 
as Hindus. The result is that even in those seven provinces where we are in a majority and 
of course in those three provinces where Moslems dominate-we Hindus are reduced to be 
veritable Zelots throughout our land. In some cases as in Bengal and the Frontier our very 
life and property stand in hourly danger, the honour of womenhood insecure. Thus we 
Hindus have thrown away to the winds whatever had not an unsubstantial political power 
was won by hard struggle carried on and sacrifies undergone by our Hindu Patriots and by 
ourselves amongst them, for the last fifty years and more. While the Moslem ministers are 
openly members of the Moslem League, they lead it, they avow to be the advocates of 
Moslem interests, even threaten to 'satav' the Hindus, frame themselves and get passed 
Government bills to reserve 60% services for Moslems in Bengal, what do the Congressite 
Ministers and members whom Hindu electorate sent to the Councils to represent Hindu 
interests do ? In Bengal the Congress M.L.As practically supported this atrocious Moslem 
reservation, they have acquiesced all over India in the pro-Moslem communal award-and 
denounce the Hindu Mahasabha also for carrying on an agitation against it !! In every case 
when Hindu interests are threatened by Moslems they have leaned towards the Moslems just 
to parade that they were Indian patriots. Witness the Congress attitude with regard to the 
Shahid Ganj affair, Delhi temple struggle, the Nizam and the Bhopal questions. But is not 
such an anti-national pro-Moslem attitude also an act of communalism ? It is worst on the 
part of a Congressite who got himself elected on Hindu votes, it is downright treachery ! 

Form a Solid Hindu Nationalist Front 

31. The only way to chastise this anti-Hindu and anti-National policy of the Congress, 
the best and easiest remedy under the circumstances lies in the fact of forming a Hindu 
Nationalist Front ! Let all over Sadhus, Sanatanists, Aryasamajists and Sanghatanist 
organizations all over India make it a point never to vote for a Congress candidate but vote 
for a Hindu nationalist candidate alone. Even to day the strength of all these faithful Hindu 
parties put toghther cannot but be counted in millions. We shall and must secceed in 
forming majorities in almost all provinces where Hindus are in majority. Even if we fail in 
some cases through the folly of a number of Hindu renegades it is still quite possible to beign 
with, to return a sufficiently strong minority of Hindu Nationalist to the councils in Provinces 
and the Centre to make it impossible for any Government to function without gaining the 
support of our Hindu Nationalist Party. If you do this,-you will have real Hindu Ministries- 
Hindu National Ministries openly vowed to safeguard Hindu interests in seven provinces at a 
stroke ! That will raise the Hindu cause and the Hindu Nation immediately to be the greatest 
political power in the land. You will find as if by a transfer scene that Hindudom has come 
home, the Hindu Mahasabha suddenly lifted out if its present state of being a persecuted and 
neglected body and raised to the position of dictatorship in shaping the political destiny of 
India. Every Hindu will raise his head high and erect, conscious of his importance and 
assured of the Government backing he is sure to get in the defence and assertion of all his 
legitimate rights-religious, racial, cultural. If a Hindu girl is molested in any part of the land 
by a Moslem gunda such a condign punishment will promptly be inflicted on him as to render 
all Moslem fundas tremble to touch any other Hindu girl as in the case of molesting an 
English girl. If any riot on the part of the Moslem fanatics seeks to force the Hindus to 
forego their civil rights, the armed police and the military forces will be so promptly and 


Page 35 of 130 



Hindu Rashtra Darshan 


vigorously made to function against the aggressive party that Moslem riots will be a thing of 
the past and they will learn to tolerate Hindu music by the public thoroughfare as kindly as 
they do now the Government and English bands and processions. The peasants and the 
labourers will get what is due to them as the very foundation of national life and industry and 
commerce. Hindu language will be safe. Hindu script will be safe, Hindu religion will be 
safe, no illegitimate or forceful conversion of a Hindu to non-Hindu faiths, will be tolerated 
for a minute. No Hindu advances will be made begging on knees before the Moslems for 
unity. For confident in our own Hindu strength to achieve Indian Independence through our 
own sacrifice and struggle even as we did in the past, our Hindu nationalists will be prepared 
to fight any non-Hindu power that stands in the way of our onward march towards the 
achievement of the independence of Hindusthan and its maintenance against all non-Hindu 
invasions. The very concept and ideal and right of a powerful Hindu Nation will bring out all 
that is best and bravest in the Hindu spirit to the forefront as nothing else can do. If the 
Moslems pass an Act, e.g. in Bengal to reserve 60% services for Moslems, our Hindu national 
ministries will at once get an Act passed in Hindu majority provinces to reserve 90% services 
for Hindus even where we are only 80% in population, as a retributory measure without 
making any the least apology for it. When we will be in a position to retaliate thus in this 
wise and do retaliate the Moslems will come to their senses in a day, we shall not only save 
Hindu rights and honour in the Hindu provinces but even in provinces where we Hindus are 
in minority. Knowing that every attempt to tyrannise the Hindus is sure to recoil on 
themselves and react for the worse on Moslem interests in all India-the Moslems will learn to 
behave as good boys and it is then they who will be anxious to open unity talks and knowing 
they are in a hopeless minority in India and no more dreams of mass conversions of Hindus 
by force and fraud and by kidnapping Hindu children in sight-the Moslems will inevitably and 
soon be in a frame of mind to acquiesce in equitable Hindu Moslems unity pacts. 

We shall, in Punjab and the Frontier, have an allied party with our Sikh Hindu flank. 
Our Sikh Hindus though they have a separate electorate and rightly so under the present 
circumstances are strong enough to defend Sikh culture and honour and interests which are 
but our own culture and honour and interests and we will work hand in hand against all non- 
Hindu aggressions from outside the Frontier. In the Central legislature also the Hindu 
Nationalist will compel the Government, if you only return staunch Hindu Nationalist 
members in majority, to take drastic military steps against the Frontier Moslem tribes, beat 
them like a chip in no time and render our Hindu life and property there as safe as that of 
the handful of Europeans continue to be. In Maharashtra our Hindu National Party shall ally 
itself with the Democrats of the present day under that redoubtable champion of equitable 
and truly National policy-Jamnadas Mehta, the eminent leader of opposition, Dr. Ambedkar 
and in all other provinces with every party and every one who stands for and in so far as he 
stands for safeguarding the just and national and equitable interests of interests of Hindus in 
common with all other citizens of India irrespective of race or religion. 

32. Nor need there be any fear of breaking up the so-called united front against the 
British Imperialism. The present Congress united front is a feigned show, a house of cards. 
The Hindu National united fornt will be a realistic, homogeneous, the living front. We shall 
not only be able to advance the just interests of the Hindu Nation but side by side will be in a 
position with our equitable and truly Indian National policy as I have outlined in section 23 of 
this address,-even to advance the interest of the Indian Nation even in its territorial sense 
also far more rapidly and solidly and vigorously than this present Quixotic Congress policy 
with its proposals of doing away with armed military and guarding the frontiers with girl 
volunteers with Charkhas in their hands can never do ! Down with all that nonsense for ever 
and up with the matter-of-fact Indian politics and the consequent Hindu Nationalist front. 

Remember, Oh Hindus, that in raising the standard of this Hindu Nationalist Front, 
you are exercising but your legitimate constitutional rights and can give unjustifiable affront 


Page 36 of 130 



Hindu Rashtra Darshan 


to none. Every Hindu is required by the constitution to vote for whomsoever he likes. So 
long as bayonets do not extort your votes against your own will for an anti-Hindu candidate, 
so long it is the easiest and legitimate thing for you to vote for a Hindu Nationalist. If but 
every Hindu does that easy duty for his race Hindudom is saved. And if the Hindus do not do 
even that much and determine to commit a cultural and political and racial suicide by voting 
for an anti-Hindu and anti-National organization as the Congress has grown today into one- 
not even Brahmadeva can save you. 

Then begin, at least you Hindu Sanghatanists who are determined to see that 
Hindudom asserts itself, begin at once at the beginning, from a united Hindu National front 
under an unalloyed Hindu National Flag and catpure the political power that even today 
obtains by voting only for Hindu Nationalist and you will see that the larger part of your 
present local and detailed grievances dissipate like mist at the very sight of Hindu Nationalist 
ministeries formed in seven provinces in India and at the Centre. When you have this much 
more shall be added unto you-and one of these days you shall have heralded an independent 
and strong and mighty Hindu Nation which is but tantamount with a mighty Indian Nation 
based on perfect equality of citizenship for all loyal and faithful Indian citizens irrespective of 
race and religion from Indus to the Seas. Remember 'those who have more will be added 
unto them but those who have not even that will be taken away from them which they have 
!' This is the inexpungeable law in this matter-of-fact world ! Capture and have then first 
the political power that exists ! Raise the standard of a Hindu Nation ! See to it that India 
must remain a Hindusthan forever: never a Pakistan !-an Anglisthan never never !!! And let 
all India resound with 

HINDU DHARMAKI JAY ! HINDU RASHTRAKI JAY !! VANDE MATARAM !!! 


1.3 21 st Session Calcutta-1939 

Delegates to and Members of the Hindu Mahasabha, 

I greatfully acknowledge your appreciation of whatever services I have been able to 
render to the Hindu cause during the past two years of my tenure of this Presidential office, 
which has presuaded you in calling upon me to preside over this Session also for the third 
time in an unbroken succession. The keen consciousness of the overwhelming contrast 
between the stupendous amount of the work which ought to be done if we want to realise 
our noble aspirations in full and the relatively scanty output of work actually done by us all, 
weighs so heavily on my mind that you all know how I wished and tried to transfer the task 
of leading the Hindu movement to some mightier Herculian shoulders and re-enter the rank 
of sodiers as a fighting unit. But firstly because the commander also is a soldier in part and 
must obey the common will and secondly because the very fact that the actual output of 
work falls far short of the enormous requirement makes it incumbent upon us all not to cease 
from doing even that little which we can do standing by our posts against all odds under the 
most adverse circumstances which this our generation has to face and thirdly on account of 
the encouraging fact that thousands of eminent brave and devoted new workers have 
entered the field and assure me that they shall see to it in the spirit of a Pratap that the 
Hindu cause triumphs before this generation passes away and have actually given just a 
glimpse in fact of this their grim resolve during the Nizam Civil Resistance Struggle-do I yield 
to your kind and almost compelling pressure to accept the office of the President of the 
Hindu Mahasabha for the third time in spite of my failing health. 


Page 37 of 130 



Hindu Rashtra Darshan 


Within the limited space of a Presidential Address like this it is hardly possible to take 
even a cursory notice of the thousand and one events and problems which Hindudom had to 
face during this year locally, provincially and generally from Sindh to Assam. The bloody 
orgies in which the Moslem mobs indulged only recently in the anti-Hindu riots at Sukkur and 
other places in Sindh, the continuous campaign of raids committed by the Moslem tribes on 
the North-Western Frontier Province rendering Hindu life and property in daily danger; the 
looting of towns and villages by Moslem gangs proclaiming all along with drum-beating, 'No 
Moslem need be distrubed, only Hindus will we loot 1 ; hundreds of anti-Hindu riots and 
outrages committed by the Moslem fanatics at various places in the U.P., Bihar and Bengal;- 
this Moslem Gundaism on the one hand and the polished and parliamentary Moslem League 
on the other,-which, treating Hindu minority with the gentle civilities indicated above in 
Sindh, Punjab and Bengal complain with righteous indignation that the Moslem minority is 
the only suffering saint throughout the World; then the Congress-League-Government 
negotiations which threaten to prove damaging to Hindu interests in a far more alarming 
degree than even the notorious Communal Decision has proved to be and above all the war 
situation which has given a handle to the Government to restore autocracy in all its pristine 
glory putting the hands of the clock of constitutional progress in I ndia full fifty years back;-all 
these and several other events require to be dealt with in detail. But I must leave them to 
be treated thus by the several resolutions which will have to be proposed in special 
connection with them and to the leading speakers who in case may deal with them more 
authoritatively either owing to their local acquaintance with the details or their expert study 
of the special questions in hand. So that the little space at my disposal may be better 
utilized in dealing with those basic principles, policy and programme which should guide our 
movements in general and on which we must now concentrate our attention and efforts for 
at least a couple of years to come. Nevertheless while dealing with these, I shall of course 
have occasion to treat with some of those outstanding current events too, but only by way of 
illustrating their central message and bearing on the Hindu Movement in general. 


The Nizam Civil Resistance Movement 

Of all these events which took place during the current year the most outstanding one 
form the Hindu Sanghatanist point of view and one which has an abiding message for our 
future policy and programme is of course the campaign of Civil Resistance which we had to 
carry on against the anti-Hindu policy of the Nizam Government for full six months during 
this year. It was a veritable crusade, as righteous as heroic. Our Arya Samaji brethren had 
to bear the brunt of the fight : not less than ten thousand Aryas joined the fight and fought 
so bravely as to demonstrate that the sacrificial fire lighted up by Maharshi Dayanand 
Swamiji, the first and foremost Hindu Sanghatanist of our age, burns brighter and brighter as 
days pass by and his mission has not fallen into undeserving hands. Not less than five 
thousand Civil Resisters defied the anti-Hindu bans of the Nizam Government and kept up 
the fight with unflinching courage and admirable tact on the Hindu Mahasabha flank. But 
what is more encouraging to note from the Pan-Hindu point of view is the fact that it was not 
only the Arya Samaj and 'The Hindu Mahasabha, though these two in the main led the 
struggle, but it was the whole Hindu brotherhood in general which joined hands and 
participated in the movement so wholeheartedly and with such fervour under the Hindu flag 
that without this pan-Hindu co-operation, sympathy and sacrifice throughout India we could 
not have carried on the struggle to such a successful termination. This fact to my mind 
constitutes the really abiding achievement we could record,-apart from the detailed demands 
which the Hindu Sanghanists had compelled the Nizam Government to grant. For, this 
Dharma Yuddha, this fight for the righteous Hindu cause proved to demonstrate that in spite 
of castes and creeds, sects and sections, Hindudom as a whole does still pulsate with a 
common National Being. Behold, the thousands and thousands of Hindus leaving their 
hearths and homes, their nearest and dearest marching on even at the risk of their lives to 


Page 38 of 130 



Hindu Rashtra Darshan 


the rescue of their co-religionists and compatriots in the Nizam's State whom they had per 
chance never seen or known personally : the Punjabees and Sindhis, Bengalis and Beharis, 
Marathas and Madrasis, Brahmins and Bhangis, Santanists, Arya Samajists, Sikhs, Jains, 
Lingaits, the rich and poor-every one who was proud of being a Hindu marched on under a 
common Hindu banner for the vindication of Hindu Honour and faced untold miseries, 
outrageous riots, bayonets and lathi charges, hunger and thirst and even death but kept 
asserting to his last breath 'Hindu Dharma ki jay, Hindusthan Hinduonka.' 

Take for example the case of Sjt. Reddy or some of those Hindu Sanghatanists who 
were ordered to be flogged or lathied for raising shouts of 'Vande Mataram and Hindusthan 
Hinduonka.' Many a brave son died under torture. Amongst them was master Sadashiv 
Pathak, a Maratha boy under sixteen years of age who had to carry daily heavy stones on his 
head in spite of his bitter complaints that he suffered keen pangs in his chest, but he would 
not apologise and had to lay down his life in consequence. You will read such numerous 
examples of heroic devotion to the Hindu cause in the authenticated histories of this 
movement which are going to be published shortly both by the Arya Samaj and the Hindu 
Mahasabha. Why, there are present in this very Pandal here leaders and gentlemen of 
unimpeachable integrity who had themselves passed through such ordeals while they were 
under imprisonment in the Nizam Jails as leaders or soldiers fighting out this Dharma 
Yuddha, this Crusade in vindication of Hindu Faith, Hindu Freedom and Hindu Honour. 

These crusaders received no pay nor were their families promised pensions. Many of 
them had resigned their services and professions earning in cases thousands a month. All of 
them knew they were unarmed, ,marching against an armed force and from the fate which 
those who preceded them they knew they will be tortured, starved, lathied and bayoneted 
too and yet they marched forth voluntarily, for there was no conscription but moral. You will 
be surprised to know that after the news of the outrageous lathi charge at Aurangabad on 
the Hindu Sanghanists prisoners,-volunteers came in larger numbers to our Shibirs to register 
their names and some who had then only recently returned after serving their first term in 
the Nizam jails as Civil Resisters, insisted on being sent again to defy the anti-Hindu bans in 
the Nizam State. The fact that such a Hindu Force consisting of fourteen to fifteen thousand 
Civil Resisters could be raised at the very first blare of the trumpet call by the Hindu 
Sanghanists party today is a lesson for us and for all those who dare to treat our demands 
lightly. These fifteen thousand Hindu Sanghanists constituted a force superior to those 
English or German forces who are now fighting in Europe, for their respective Nations in 
moral courage and had it not been only a Civil Resistance Movement and had we been in a 
position to face our opponents' bayonet for bayonet and rifle for rifle, chances are they would 
have proved superior to them in an armed resistance too. But even if we let chances alone 
what is actual is also enough to encourage our Hindu Sanghanists Party in India with a self- 
confidence, with the bracing up consciousness of having won a Moral Victory and on the 
other hand to warm all anti-Hindu Forces that they should henceforth think twice before they 
treat the resolutions of the Hindu 

Mahasabha as lightly as they were wont to do. What we resolved in heroic words at Nagpur 
or Sholapur last year has been translated into heroic deeds before we re-assemble at 
Calcutta on the eve of this ensuing year. 

One more aspect of this struggle deserves a special emphasis in as much as it is sure 
to exercise a liberating influence on the future of the Hindu movement in general. The 
Nizam Civil Resistance Campaign has broken the demoralizing spell which weighed like an 
incubus on the Hindu mind for some twenty years in the past that no cause howsoever 
righteous it may be in itself from the Hindu point of view should be deemed righteous unless 
the Congress was pleased to certify it as 'National' which word in ninetynine cases out of a 
hundred proved to be tantamount with the word 'anti-Hindu' and that no movement on an 
all-India scale should be or could be carried out successfully unless it was sponsored and led 


Page 39 of 130 



Hindu Rashtra Darshan 


on by the Congress Flag. Even in the case of the murderous Moslem riots at Kohat or the 
general massacres of Hindus perpetrated by the Moplas from village to village in Malabar, the 
Hindus did not even dare to condemn the Moslem fanaticism on a pan-Hindu scale all over 
India, because the step was not certified by the Congress as 'National 1 . The Congress 
wanted to play the same game even in this case and dictatorially anathematised the Nizam 
Civil Resistance Movement as 'Communal, 1 as 'anti-National.' But this time the Hindu 
Sanghanists party had an ideology of its own conception of what is really National or 
otherwise interpreted in the light of reason that had freed itself from the blind and 
unquestioning subservience to any inner voices which on their own admission were sure 
passports to Himalayan errors or new lights which scarcely made darkness visible and 
subservience to any Papal bulls issued by the Congress Church and marched on to the rescue 
of their Hindu co-religionists and compatriots in the Nizam State led on by the Hindu Flag. 
The movement rapidly spread throughout the length and breadth of the country from 
Peshawar to Madras. On that one single evening for example, of the 'Nizam Nishedh day' as 
well as 'Hindu Nation Day' not less than a crore of Hindus were found gathered under the 
Hindu Flag in capital cities and towns throughout India in pursuance of the mandate to the 
Hindu Sanghatanist Party to back up the Hindu movement which seemed only to flourish the 
more, the more the Congress an athematised and opposed it as communal and anti-National. 

Why did the Congress oppose it ? The Congress wanted to reform the States : well, 
was not Hyderabad the biggest and yet the worst ruled autocratic State in India ? It was at 
least as worthwhile to introduce constitutional reforms and restore civil liberties in the Nizam 
State as in the 

tiny Taluka-like State of Rajkot. Did not Gandhiji want us to believe that the Reform 
movement of that petty Rajkot had assumed the magnitude of an all-India question, that the 
whole Indian Ocean was set on fire in the tiny tea cup of Mr. Veerawala ? And yet the 
question of demanding constitutional reforms for nearly a crore of subjects in the Nizam 
State which the Hindu Mahasabha had undertaken and was fighting for, seemed to him so 
remote and unconnected with the Indian question that he could not spare even as much 
sympathy or interest as he would for the Abyssinians in Africa, for the Spanish or the Czechs 
in Europe. Not only Gandhiji but no Congressite, neither the backward nor the forward nor 
the inward block or their heads, stepped out to condemn the Nizam Government even after 
the inhuman lathi charges on the Hindu Civil Resisters at Aurangabad jail or the bloody riots 
at Hyderabad. Then again, did not the Congress patronize civil liberties ? Was is not a fact 
that under Nizam Government even the life and property of millions of Hindus was held in 
daily danger, no freedom either of speech or worship or association worth the name existed 
? Then why did not the Congress join hands with Hindu Sanghanists who were engaged in a 
life and death struggle to secure these civil liberties in the State or at least pass a resolution 
to support the justice of their demands ? Was it because the Hindu Sanghanists went to the 
field as Hindus insted of us Indians ? Well, it may be a sin for a Hindu to do even a good 
thing as a Hindu-except ON the election day when he has to vote for a Congressite who has 
to state himself as a Hindu, as a unit in the Hindu electorate !-But when the Moslem in 
Kashmere rose with the help of outside Moslems in an armed revolt, a gainst the Hindu King, 
demanding representation for Moslems as Moslems,-did not Gandhiji write as a born 
Democrat, that if the Hindu King of Kashmere could not satisfy and allay the discontent of 
the Moslems who formed 85% of his subjects he had no moral right to rule but should 
forthwith abdicate and retire to Kashi ? Well more than 85% of the subjects of the Nizam 
are Hindus, they had only resorted to unarmed Civil Resistance to the intolerable religious, 
cultural and political persecutions with the help of their co-religionists outside the State : but 
did Gandhiji, the born Democrat, advise the Nizam too to abdicate and retire to Mecca ? No, 
on the contrary he wrote in so many words that he was overwhelming concerned throughout 
the Civil Resistance Movement 'not to embarrass His Exalted Highness the Nizam.' 


Page 40 of 130 



Hindu Rashtra Darshan 


I can recount a hundred and one petty mischiefs also which Congressite of the 
'National' brand were busy playing to defeat this Hindu Sanghanists Movement against the 
anti-Hindu policy of the Nizam Government, but that is not what I intend to deal with here. 
Suffice it to say that the Hindu Mahasabha could secure the sympathy even of some English 
M.P.s in England and persuade them to protest against the horrible oppression at the 
Aurangabad jail and during the Hyderabad riots the Hindus had to undergo-but no Congress 
Ministers in all the seven provinces touched the subject even with a pair of tongs, initiated 
not even a discussion in the Congress or Indian Legislatures not uttered a word in defence of 
the Hindus against the Nizam Government: although in the case of the pettiest Rajkot affair. 

The moral is plain and must be plainly told. So long as the Congress continues to hug 
to the 'Pseudo-National' ideology as it does today, its policy is bound to be anti-Hindu, is 
bound to betray Hindu interests, howsoever just and legitimate they may be. Just think; if 
the Hindu Electorate had voted for the Hindu Sanghatanists Representative and thus had 
Hindu Mahasabha Ministeries in Bombay, Madras and other parts-could they have remained 
so callously indifferent to the oppression the Hindus had to undergo in Hyderabad ? What 
tremendous pressure they could have brought to bear on the Nizam Government in staying 
its hand from out-Heroding-Herod ! 

It was essentially to emphasize this point that whenever the Hindus are oppressed as 
Hindus and especially at the hands of the Moslems the Congress simply will not raise a finger 
in their defence, that the Hindu Sanghanists must take up the task of defending themselves 
on their own shoulders and if they mean to do so they can do it in spite of the Congress 
indifferences or even opposition, that the Nizam Civil Resistance Movement was launched by 
the Hindu Sanghanists leaders independently of the Congress under a Hindu Flag. The 
struggle was a test case to begin with the prospective Pan-Hindu Movement and we Hindu 
Sanghanists were not only not Rajkoted at Hyderabad but on the contrary came out with 
flying colours out of this testing ordeal insamuch as we have recovered and actualised 
through this struggle our Racial and Cultural homogenity, our real National self which under a 
swoon of self-forgetfulness during the last hundred years or so was all but obliterated. 

One word about the political Reforms announced by the Nizam Government and the 
undertaking it has given to grant the Hindus civil, cultural and religious liberties in 
consideration of which the Civil Resistance Movement was SUSPENDED BY THE HINDU 
MAHASABHA in the spirit of responsive co-operation and accommodation for which H.E.H. 
the Nizam had graciously pleaded in this announcement. The Hindu Mahasabha thanks the 
Nizam Government for the general amnesty of all Hindu Civil Resisters. It was a step in the 
right direction. But since then the Nizam Government has not moved as quickly as it ought 
to have done in introducing the Reforms in themselves inadequate and halting in practical 
operation. The Mahasabha is extremely anxious to open out some way to peaceful 
constitutional progress and restore lasting amity between the Hindus and Moslems in that 
State and therefore, it begs to draw the pointed attention of the Nizam to the fact that any 
unreasonable delay in putting the Reforms in actual operation cannot but prove dangerous 
and give rise to discontent which is perfectly avoidable if the Nizam Government takes time 
by his forelock before it is too late. And the second thing that is most urgent is the fact the 
Nizam Government should hold some of the fanatical local Moslem officials in leash who 
counting on an ultimate support from the Cental Government are still harassing the Hindus 
every now and then. 

If the local fanatical Moslem rabble and such officials are strictly dealt with by the 
Government in some cases, the Moslem zealots will soon come to their senses all over the 
State. I hope these warnings will be taken by the Nizam Government in the amicable spirit 
which prompts me in sounding them. 


Page 41 of 130 



Hindu Rashtra Darshan 


The Shiva Mandir Satyagraha at Delhi 

The splendid and sustained struggle the Hindus have carried on at Delhi in connection 
with the Shiva Mandir affair deserves also an all India homage. It too sounds the same 
warning that the Congress does not and will not and cannot defend a Hindu cause against an 
anti-Hindu aggression. But in spite of it all the overwhelming suffering and sacrifice in men 
and money in connection with the Shiva Mandir at Delhi shall not go in vain if but only those 
Hindus who pledge to safeguard Hindu interests and are not enslaved to the Congress ticket, 
are sent by the Hindus on a Hindu Sanghanists ticket to represent them to the corporation. 
The pan-Hindu spirit which this struggle has lit up will prove the real Shiva. On the site 
where stood the tiny mudhut which has been so highhandedly destoryed, I already see rising 
before my mind's eye a magnificent Temple of Shiva and thousands of pilgrims crowding to 
worship at it before a decade passes away. The successful resistance the Hindus offered in 
defence of their legitimate rights at Khamgaon, Mahad, Bhagalpur and several other places 
during this year are also full of significance and testify to the fact that the spirit of self- 
assertion is consolidating the Hindus under the Hindu Mahasabha's lead. But I must not lose 
myself in the labyrinths of detailed events any longer and address myself to the chief task I 
have set before me in this address of outlining the fundamental basis and general policy and 
programme on which I wish we all concentrate our attention for at least a couple of years to 
come. 


Some of the Basic principles and Tenets of the 
Hindu Movement 

It is encouraging to note that thousands of those who were brought up from their 
early days under the influence of the Pseudo Nationalistic ideology current in the Congress 
camp and were consequently so thoroughly prejudiced against anything that was connected 
with Hindutva that they militated against the very word Hindu as something superstitious, 
out-of-date unworthy of a progressive patriot to own, should now be evincing a genuine 
desire to know all about the Hindu Mahasabha, its policy and immediate programme. The 
case of no less a personality than Mr. Tairsee whose sad death all Bombay lamented only a 
couple of months ago can serve as a case in point. He was reputed to be one amongst the 
first ten citizens of Bombay, a Rationalist of Rationalists, one of the foremost Congressites. 
Yet after I had casually explained to him the Hindu Sanghanists Ideology as expounded in 
my Nagpur speech, the publicly confessed that the Rationalism which made him shun the 
word Hindu or Hindu Sanghatan as a crass superstition was itself the crassest of 
superstitions. He not only join our party but proudly accepted the Presidentship of the 
Bombay Provincial Hindu Sabha. Throughout my extensive tours I have come across 
thousands of the intellectual class who simply militated against the Hindu idea at its first 
mention, when cogently explained rubbed their eyes in a doubting mood at its second 
mention and half of them pressed for a closer acquaintance with it while the other half simply 
capitulated at its third mention. There has grown of late enormous curiosity throughout 
India to know something of the Hindu Mahasabha, its aims and as to what is its programme 
and this demand at times comes from foreign countries as well. That is the reason why I 
wish to devote this address mainly to enumerate categorically the leading principles and 
tenets on which the Hindu movement is based and to outline its general policy and some 
outstanding details of its immediate programme. It will serve as a cogent statement of our 
case and may be utilized as a basis for a manifesto in future to an organized Hindu party in 
the Legislatures as well as a handy guide to our workers and propagandists in the press and 
platform. 

It may involve some repetition. But endless repetition of a truth as also of a falsehood is 
about the only means to cast the mentality of a whole people into a required mould. As long 


Page 42 of 130 



Hindu Rashtra Darshan 


as falsehood holds the propagandistic field truth must speak out to silence it as many times 
as the former repeats a lie. 

The following are some of the basic tenets and aspects of the Hindu movement. 

(a) Every person is a Hindu who regards and owns this Bharat Bhumi, this land from 
the Indus to the Seas, as his Fatherland as well as his Holyland;-i.e. the land of the origin of 
his religion, the cradle of his Faith. 

The followers therefore of Vaidicism, Sanatanism, Jainism, Buddism, Lingaitism, 
Shikhism, the Arya Samaji, the Brahmasamaj, the Devasamaj, the Prarthana Samaji and such 
other religions of Indian origin are Hindus and constitute Hindudom, i.e., the Hindu people as 
a whole. 

Consequently the so-called aboriginal or hill tribes also are Hindus : because India is 
their Fatherland as well as their Holyland of whatever form of religion or worship they follow. 

This definition, therefore, should be recognized by the Government and made the test 
of Hindutva in enumerating the population of Hindus in the Government census to come. 
The definition rendered in Sanskrit stands thus 

11 f^rf?TT ZFRT 3TTT?T3^nTT 11 

11 ftcpj: TT t 11111 

(b) The word Hindu is not of a foreign origin nor it is connected with the advent of 
the Moslems in India, as was erroneously suspected for a time under the mischievous 
influence of some alien scribes. Our land and our people were at times called Sapta Sindhus 

or Sindhus (Rttp even by our Vaidic Rishis. The following verse, for example, 
from the Rigweda itself will conclusively testify to this fact 

11 3TT 11 

11 cTtrdfaTRT g RlHJ-u| cfl ct|cH : | |2l I 
-(Rigweda 6-8-24) 

Thousands of years before Mohmed, the Moslem prophet was born, the ancient 
Babilonians knew us as 'Sindhus 1 and the ancient Zenda Avesta refers to us as Hindus. One 
of our provinces on this side of the Indus has retained this ancient appellation of our land 
and people down to this day as 'Sindhu Desh 1 and its people as 'Sindhus' (Sindh). In our 
modern Prakrits the Sanskrit 'tt' is often transformed into '^' just as the word '<W$V in 

Sanskrit or has been transformed into Hindu Prakrit as '#^r' and ' 4 >ic-£i' even so the 
word 'frtsj' has been transformed into modern Prakrits as Those who want to have this 
point exhaustively and conclusively treated may read my book 'Hindutva'. 

(c) Hinduism, Hindutva and Hindudom In expounding the ideology of the Hindu 
movement, it is absolutely necessary to have a correct grasp of the meaning attached to 
these three terms. From the word 'Hindu' has been coined the word 'Hinduism' in English. It 
means the school or system of religions the Hindus follow. The second word 'Hindutva' is far 
more comprehensive and refers not only to the religious aspect of the Hindu people as the 
word 'Hinduism' does but comprehends even their cultural, linguistic, social and political 
aspects as well. It is more of less akin to 'Hindu polity' and its nearly exact translation would 
be 'Hinduness'. The third word 'Hindudom'means the Hindu people spoken of collectively. It 
is a collective name for the Hindu world, just as Islam denotes the Moslem world or 
Christiandom denotes the Christian world. 


Page 43 of 130 



Hindu Rashtra Darshan 


(d) We Hindus are a Nation by ourselves In my Presidential speech at Nagpur I 
had, for the first time in the history of our recent politics, pointed out in bold relief that the 
whole Congress ideology was vitiated initio by its unwitted assumption that the territorial 
unity, a common habitat, was the only factor that constituted and ought to and must 
constitute a Nation. This conception of a Territorial Nationality has since then received a 
rude shock in Europe itself from which it was imported wholesale to India and the present 
War has justified my assertion by exploding the myth altogether. All Nations carved out to 
order on the Territorial design without any other common bond to mould each of them into a 
national being have gone to rack and ruin, tumbled down like a house of cards. Poland and 
Czechoslovakia will ever serve as a stern warning against any such efforts to frame 
heterogenious peoples into such hotch-potch Nations, based only on the shifting sands of the 
conception of Territorial Nationality, not cemented by any cultural, racial or historical 
affinities and consequently having no common will to incorporate themselves into a Nation. 
These treaty-Nations 

broke up at the first opportunity they got: the German part of them went over to Germany, 
The Russian to Russia, Czechs to Czechoslovakia and Poles to Poland. The cultural, linguistic, 
historial and such other organic affinities proved stronger than the territorial one. Only those 
Nations have persisted in maintaining their National unity and identity during the last three to 
four centuries in Europe which had developed racial, linguistic, cultural and such other 
organic affinities in addition to their Territorial unity or even at times in spite of it and 
consequently willed to be homogeneous National units-such as England, France, Germany, 
Italy, Portugal etc. 

J udged by any and all of these tests which go severally and collectively to from such a 
homogeneous and organic Nation, in India we Hindus are marked out as an abiding Nation 
by ourselves. Not only we own a common Fatherland, a Territorial unity, but what is scarely 
found anywhere else in the world we have a common holyland which is identified with our 
common Fatherland. This Bharat Bhumi, this Hindusthan, India is both ourf^tcp^ and 

Our patriotism, therefore, is doubly sure. Then we have common affinities, cultural, 
religious, historical, linguistic and racial which through the process of countless centuries of 
association and assimilation moulded us into a homogeneous and organic Nation and above 
all induced a will to lead a corporate and common National Life. The Hindus are no treaty 
Nation-but an organic National Being. 

One more pertinent point must be met as it often misleads our Congressite Hindu 
brethren in particular. The homogenity that wields a people into a National Being does not 
only imply the total absence of all internal differences, religious, racial or linguistic of sects 
and sections amongst themselves. It only means that they differ more from other people as 
a National unit than they differ among themselves. Even the most Unitarian Nations of 
today-say the British or the French cannot be free from any religious, linguistic, cultural, 
racial or other different sects or sections or even some antipathies existing amongst 
themselves. National homogenity connotes oneness of a people in relation to the contrast 
they present to any other people as a whole. 

We Hindus, in spite of thousand and one differences within our fold or bound by such 
religious, cultural, historical, racial, linguistic and other affinities in common as to stand out 
as a definitely homogeneous people as soon as we are placed in contrast with any other non- 
Hindu people-say the English or Japanese or even the Indian Moslems. That is the reason 
why today we the Hindus from Kashmere to Madras and Sindh to Assam will to be a Nation 
by ourselves-while the Indian Moslems are on the whole more inclined to identify themselves 
and their interests with Moslems outside I ndia than Hindus who lived next door, like the J ews 
in Germany. 


Page 44 of 130 



Hindu Rashtra Darshan 


Some well-meaning but simple-minded Hindus amuse themselves with the thought 
and hope against hope that in as much as the majority of Indian Moslems also are in fact 
allied to us by race and language and in cases had gone over to the Moslem fold in living 
memory of this very generation, they could easily be persuaded to acknowledge this 
homogenity and even blood relation with the Hindus and merge themselves into a common 
National Being if but we only remind them of these affinities and appeal to them in their 
name. These innocent souls are really to be pitied. 

As if the Moslems do not know of it all !! The fact is that the Moslems know of these affinities 
all but too well : the only difference to be taken into account being that while the Hindus love 
these affinities which bind the Hindu to a Hindu and to dwell on them with pride-the Moslems 
hate the very mention of them and are trying to eradicate the very memory of it all. Some of 
them fabricate histories and genealogies to connect their origin with Arabians or Turks; they 
are trying to carve out a separate language for themselves and graft it as best as they can 
on the Arabian stock; they are carrying on a campaign against the Hindu family names such 
as 'Tambe' and 'Modak' which in parts like the Konkan convert-Moslems still bear and replace 
them by Arabian ones and are bent on widenning the cleavage deeper and broader by 
removing every trace which may remind them of having once something in common with the 
Hindu stock. Their religious and theocratic traditions join hands in impressing upon their 
mind that Hindusthan is not and cannot be a Dar-UI-lslam, their country which they may love 
until and unless the Hindus-the kafars- are either converted Islam or are reduced to 
helotage paying the Zizia to some would-be Moslem Sovereignty over this land. The very 
word 'Hindusthan' stinks in their nostrils. I am not referring to these items here in any spirit 
of either condemnation or justification. I am telling the simple fact which no Moslem can 
honestly contest that Islam as a whole wants on a deliberate design to assert itself in India 
as a Nation altogether heterogenous with the Hindus and having nothing in common with 
them. Consequently it ought to be clear even to these well-meaning Hindu simpletons that 
this refusal of the Indian Moslems to merge in a common National unit leaves the Hindus, 
negatively too, as a Nation by themselves. 

(e) Swarajya to the Hindus must mean only that 'Rajya' in which their 'Swatva', their 
'Hindutva' can assert itself without being overlorded by any non-Hindu people, whether they 
be Indian Territorials or extra-territorials :-Some Englishmen are and may continue to be 
Territorially born Indians. Can, therefore, the overlordship of these Anglo-Indians be a 
'Swarajya' to the Hindus ? Aurangzeb or Tippu were hereditary Indians, nay, were the sons 
of converted Hindu mothers. Did that mean that the rule of Aurangzeb or Tippu was a 
'Swarajya' to the Hindus ? No ! Although they were territorially Indians they proved to be 
the worst enemies of Hindudom and therefore, a Shivaji, a Gobindsingh, a Pratap or the 
Peshwas had to fight against the Moslems domination and establish a real Hindu Swarajya. 

Consequently, under the present circumstances too all that an Indian National State 
can mean is that the Moslem minority in India will have the right to be treated as equal 
citizens, enjoying equal protection and civic rights in proportion to their population. The 
Hindu majority will not encroach on the legitimate rights of any non-Hindu minority. But in 
no case can the Hindu majority resign its right which as a majority it is entitled to exercise 
under any Democratic and legitimate constitution. The Moslem minority in particular has not 
obliged the Hindus by remaining in minority and therefore, they must remain satisfied with 
the status they occupy and with the legitimate share of civic and political rights that is their 
proportionate due. It would be simply preposterous to endow the Moslem minority with the 
right exercising a practical veto on the legitimate rights and privileges of the majority and call 
it a 'Swarajya'. The Hindus do not want a change of masters, are not going to struggle and 
fight and die only to replace an Edward by an Aurangzeb simply because the latter happens 
to be born within Indian borders, but they want henceforth to be masters themselves in their 
own house, in their own Land. 


Page 45 of 130 



Hindu Rashtra Darshan 


(f) Consequently, the name 'Hindusthan' must continue to be the appellation of our 
Country Such other names as India, Hind, etc. being derived from the same original word 
Sindhu may be used but only to signify the same sense-the land of the Hindus-a country 
which is the abode of the Hindu Nation. Aryavarta, Bharat-Bhumi and such other names are 
of course the ancient and the most cherished epithets of our Motherland and will continue to 
appeal to the cultured elite. In this insistence that the Motherland of the Hindus must be 
called but 'Hindusthan 1 , no encroachment 

or humilitiation is implied in connection with any of our non-Hindu countrymen. Our Parsee 
and Christian countrymen are already too akin to us culturally and are too patriotic and the 
anglo-lndians too sensible to refuse to fall in line with us Hindus on so legitimate a ground. 
So far as our Moslem countrymen are concerned it is useless to conceal the fact that some of 
them are already inclined to look upon this molehill also as an inseperable mountain in their 
way to Hindu-Moslem unity. But they should remember that the Moslems do not dwell only 
in India nor are the Indian Moslems the only heroic remnants of the Faithful in Islam. China 
has crores of Moslems, Greece, Palestine and even Hungary and Poland have thousands of 
Moslems amongst their Nationals. But being there a minority, only a community, their 
existence in these countries has never been advanced as a ground 1 to change the ancient 
names of these countries which indicate the abode of those races whose overwhelming 
majority own the land. The country of the Poles continues to be Poland and of the Grecians 
as Greece. The Moslems there did not or dared not distort them but are quite content to 
distinguish themselves as Polish-Moslems or Grecian-Moslems or Chinese-Moslems when 
occasion arises. So also our Moslem countrymen may distinguish themselves Nationally or 
territorially whenever they want, as 'Hindusthanee-Moslems' without compromising in the 
least their separateness as a religious or cultural entity. Nay the Moslems have been calling 
themselves as ;Hindusthanis' ever since their advent in India, of their own accord. 

But if in spite of it all some irrational Moslem sections amongst our countrymen object 
even to this name of our Country that is no reason why we should play towards to our own 
conscience. We Hindus must not betray or break us the continuity of our Nation from the 
Sindhus in Rigvedic days to the Hindus of our own generation which is implied in 'Hindusthan' 
the accepted appellation of our Motherland. Just as the land of the Germans in Germany, of 
the English England, of the Turks Turkisthan, of the Afghans Afghanisthan-even so we must 
have it indelibly impressed on the map of the earth for all times to come a 'Hindusthan'-the 
land of the Hindus. 

(g) The Pan-Hindu Flag :- The ^Uiuiifcbd 1 Gerua Flag shall be the Flag of the 

Hindu Nation. With its OM, the Swastik and the Sword, it appeals to sentiments cherished by 
our race ever since the Vaidic days. Those who like to realise the inner spirit and know the 
raison d'etre of its design and the symbols would do well to read the special tract I have 
written styled 'the Pan Hindu Dhwaj.' 

It must be emphasized in this connection that all those Hindu flags other than this 
which are current amongst the Hindus as the colours of the different constituents which go 
to form our 
Pan-Hindu Spirit. 

Nor should it be supposed that the Hindu Flag implies any inherent antagonism to the 
several colours of our non-Hindu countrymen. The Moslems are welcome to have their own 
religious colours to represent their own community. In short we shall respect any Flag which 
any section of our countrymen adopts whether religious or political, whether it is the Moslem 
League Flag or the Congress Tri-colours or the Red one,-so long as it continues to respect in 
return the pan-Hindu Flag and does not antagonise it but continues as allied colours. But 
Hindudom as a whole will be represented by the pan-Hindu Flag alone. 


Page 46 of 130 



Hindu Rashtra Darshan 


(h) The Sanskrit shall be our '^rarraT' our sacred language and the 'Sanskrit Nishtha' 
Hindi, the Hindi which is derived from Sanskrit and draws its nourishment from the latter, is 
our 'TTE'Swr 1 , our current National language:- Besides being the richest and the most cultured 

of the ancient languages of the world, to us Hindus the Sanskrit is the holiest tongue of 
tongues. Our scriptures, history, philosophy and culture have their roots so deeply embeded 
in the Sanskrit literature that it forms veritably the brain of our Race. Mother of the majority 
of our mothertongues, she has suckled the 

rest of them at her breast. All Hindu languages current today whether derived from Sanskrit 
or grafted on to it can only grow and flourish on the sap of life they imbibe from the Sanskrit. 
The Sanskrit language, therefore, must ever be an indispensible constituent of the classical 
course for 
Hindu youths. 

In adopting Hindu as the National tongue of Hindudom no humiliation or any invidious 
distinction is implied as regards other provincial tongues. We are all as attached to our 
provincial tongues as to Hindi and they will all grow and flourish in their respective spheres. 
In fact, some of them are today more progressive and richer in literature. But nevertheless, 
taken all in all, Hindi can serve the purpose of a National Pan-Hindu Language best. It must 
also be remembered that Hindi is not made a National Language to order. The fact is that 
long before either the English or even the Moslems stepped into india, Hindi in its general 
form had already come to occupy the position of a National tongue throughout Hindusthan. 
The Hindu pilgrim, the tradesman, the tourist, soldier, the pandit travelled up and down from 
Bengal to Sindh and Kashmere to Rameshwar by making himself understood from locality to 
locality through Hindi. Just as the Sanskrit was the National language of the Hindu 
intellectual world even so Hindi has been for at least a thousand years in the past the 
National Indian tongue of the Hindu people. Added to that and as consequence of that we 
find even today that it is understood and even spoken as a mother-tongue by a far larger 
number of people than is the case with any other Hindu language. Consequently, it must be 
made compulsory for every Hindu student through secondary schools at any rate to learn 
Hindi as his Pan-Hindu National language without neglecting in the least his training in his 
provincial mother-tongue. 

By Hindi we if course mean the pure 'Sankrit Nishtha 1 Hindi, as we find it for example 
in the 'Satyartha Prakash 1 written by Maharshi Dayanand Saraswati. How simple and 
untained with a single unnecessary foreign word is that Hindi and how expressive withal. It 
may be mentioned in passing that Swami Dayanandji was about the first Hindu leader who 
gave conscious and definite expression to the view that Hindi should be the Pan-Hindi 
National language of India. 'This Sanskrit Nishtha' Hindi has nothing to do with that hybrid, 
the so-called Hindusthani which is being hatched up by the Wardha scheme. It is nothing 
short of a linguistic monstrosity and must be ruthlessly 

suppressed. Not only that but it is our bounden duty to oust out ruthlessly all unnecessary 
alien words whether Arabian or English, from every Hindu tongue-whether provincial or 
dilectical. We are not against the English or any other language; nay, we insist on the study 
of the English as an indispensible necessity and a profitable passport to world literature. But 
we must not allow the influx of alien words into our language without checking their pass 
and testing their necessity. Our Hindu brethren in Bengal are especially to be congratulated 
upon in this connection because the Bengali literature is admirably free from any such 
unclean admixture of unnecessary alien words which cannot be said regarding our other 
Provincial tongues and literature. 

(i) The Nogari shall be the National Script of Hindudom Our Sanskrit alphabetical 
order is phonetically about the most perfect which the word has yet devised and almost all 
our current I ndian scripts already follow it. The Nagari Script too follows this order. Like the 


Page 47 of 130 



Hindu Rashtra Darshan 


Hindi language the Nagari script too has already been current for centuries all over India 
amongst the Hindu literary circles for some two thousand years at any rate in the past and 
was even popularly nick-named as the 'Shastri-Lipi 1 , the script of our Hindu Scriptures. With 
a little touch here and there it could be reformed so as to render it as suitable to modern 
mechanical printing as the Roman script. Such a reform movement was set on foot in 
Maharashtra about some forty years ago by Mr. Vaidya and others. An organized movement 
later on under my lead met with an account of practical success and has already popularised 
it. I strongly recommend that as an immediate step to popularise Nagari as our National 
Script, all our Hindu papers in different provinces should begin to publish at least a couple of 
columns of their provincial languages in Nagari script. It is a matter of common knowledge 
that if Bengali or Gujarati is printed in Nagari it is more or less understood by readers in 
several other provinces. To have only one common language throughout Hindusthan at a 
stroke is impraticable and unwise. But to have the Nagari script as the only common script 
throughout Hindudom is much more feasible. Nevertheless, it should be borne in mind that 
the different Hindu scripts current in our different provinces have a future of their own and 
may flourish side by side with the Nagari. All that is immediately done as indispensable in 
the common interest of Hindudom as a 

whole is that the Nagari script must be made a compulsory subject along with the Hindi 
language in every school in the case of Hindu students. 

It is interesting to remind you here how two prominent Congress Presidents proposed 
to solve this problem of a National tongue and a National Script. Pandit Nehru thinks, leaving 
even Maulana Abul Kalam Azad far behind who only proposes Hindusthani which he assures 
us is tantamount to Urdu,-that the highly Arabianised Urdu of the Aligarh School or the 
Osmania University School is best fitted to be the National Language of India Including of 
course some twenty-eight crores of Hindus. While Desha Gaurav Subhash Babu improving 
upon the situation beat even Panditjis ingenuity hollow by proposing from the Presidential 
chair of the I ndian National Congress that Roman Script would suit I ndia as the best National 
Script. That is how the Congress ideology approaches things National ! Roman script to be 
the National Script of India ! How imminently practicable, to say the least ! Your Basumati, 
Ananda Bazar Patrika and all Bengali papers to appear every day in Roman script ! The 
Bande Mataram Song to be printed in this new National style as 'tomari Pratima ghadibe 
Mandire Mandire 1 and the Gita to begin with in this following attractive setting 
as- 


'Dharma Kshettre Kurukshettre Sama-vetah yuyutsavah 1 ans ao on and so on. It is 
true as Subhas Babu says that Kemal Pasha abolished the Arabian Script as unsuited to print 
and took to Roman script. But this fact has a lesson for our Mahommedan zealots who want 
the Urdu Script, that is this very Arabian style, to thrust even on the Hindus as an up-to-date 
National Script and it has no connection with the Hindus. Kemal Pasha took to the Roman 
script because the Turks had nothing better of their own to fall back upon. The Andamanees 
pick up Kauris and make a necklace of them,-but is that the reason why the Kuber also 
should do the same ? We Hindus should rather call upon Arabia and Europe to adopt the 
Nagari Script and Hindi language; such a proposal should not sound very impracticable to 
such inveterate optimists at any rate who seriously advance it as a very practical proposal to 
make Urdu the National language of the Marathas and to expect all our Arya Samaj Gurukuls 
to study the Vedas in Roman script ? 

(j) The Hindu Mahasabha is a National Organization of Hindudom :- It has come to 
my notice that a very large section of the English educated Hindus hold back from joining the 
Hindu Mahasabha and Political Circles in India and outside in general feel themselves totally 
unconcerned about it under the erroneous idea that it is an exclusively religious 
organization,-something like a Christian Mission. Nothing could be far from the truth. The 


Page 48 of 130 



Hindu Rashtra Darshan 


Hindu Mahasabha is not a Hindu Mission It leaves religious questions regarding theism, 
monotheism, pantheism or even atheism to be 

discussed and determined by the different Hindu schools of religious persuasions. It is not a 
Hindu-Dharma Mahasabha,-but a Hindu National Mahasabha. Consequently, by its very 
constitution it is debarred to associate itself exclusively as a partisan with any particular 
religious school or sect even within the Hindu fold. As a national Hindu body it will of course 
propagate and defend the National Hindu Church comprising each and all religious of 
Hindusthani origin against any non-Hindu attack or encroachment. But the sphere of its 
activity is far more comprehensive than that of an exclusively religious body. The Hindu 
Mahasabha identifies itself with the National life of Hindudom in all its entirely, in all its 
social, economical, cultural and above all political aspects and is pledged to protect 
and promote all that contributes to the freedom, strength and glory of the Hindu Nation; and 
as an indispensible means to that end to attain Puma Swarajya, absolute political 
Independence of Hindusthan by all legitimate and proper means. 

(k) The Hindu Mahasabha must continue its mission even after Hindusthan is 
politically free Many a superficial critic seems to fancy that the Mahasabha was only 
contrived to serve as a make-weight, as a re-action checkmating the Moslem League or the 
anti-Hindu policy of the present leaders of the Congress and will be out of court or cease 
automatically to function as soon as it is shorn of this spurious excuse to exist. But if the 
aims and objects of the Mahasabha mean anything it is clear that it was not the outcome of 
any frothy effusion, any fussy agitation to remove a grievance here or oppose a seasonal 
party there. The fact is that every organism whether individual or social which is living and 
deserves to survive throws out offensive and defensive organs as soon as it is brought to 
face adversely changing environments. The Hindu Nation too as soon as it recovered and 
freed itself from the suffocationg grip of the pseudo Nationalistic ideology of the Congress 
brand developed a new organ to battle in the struggle for existence under the changed 
conditions of modern 

age. This was the Hindu Mahasabha. It grew up of a fundamental necessity of National life 
and not of any ephemeral incident. The constructive side of its aims and objects make it 
emply clear that its mission is as abiding as the life of the Nation itself. But that apart, even 
the day-to-day necessity of adapting its policy to the everchanging political currents makes it 
incubment on Hindudom to have an exclusively Hindu organization independent of any moral 
or intellectual servility or subservience to any non-Hindu or jointly representative institution, 
to guard Hindu interests and save them from being 

jeopardised. It is not so only under the present political subjection of Hindusthan but it will 
be all the more necessary to have some such exclusively Hindu organization, some such 
Hindu Mahasabha in substance whether it is identical with this present organization or 
otherwise to serve as a watch-tower at the gates of Hindudom for at least a couple of 
centuries to come, even after Hindusthan is partially or wholly-free and a National Parliament 
controls its political destiny. 

Because, unless something altogether cataclysmic in nature upsets the whole political 
order of things in the world which practical politics cannot envisage today, all that can be 
reasonably expected in the immediate future is that we Hindus may prevail over England and 
compel her to recognise India as a self-governing unit with the status contemplated in the 
Westminister Statute. Now a National Parliament in such a self-governing India can only 
reflect the electorate as it is, the Hindus and the Moslems as we find them, their relations a 
bit bettered, perhaps a bit worsened. No realist can be blind to the probability that the 
extra-territorial designs and the secret urge goading on the Moslems to transform India into 
a Moslem State may at any time time confront the Hindusthani State even under self- 
government either with a Civil War or treacherous overtures to alien invaders 
by the Moslems. Then again there is every likelihood that there will ever continue at least for 
a centuary to come a danger of fanatical riots, the scramble for services, Legislative seats, 


Page 49 of 130 



Hindu Rashtra Darshan 


weightages out of proportion to their population on the part of the Moslem Minority and 
consequently a constant 

danger threatening internal peace. To checkmate this probability which if we are wise we 
must always keep in view even after Hindusthan attains the status of a self-governing 
country, a powerful and exclusive organization of Hindudom like the Hindu Mahasabha will 
always prove a sure and devoted source of strength, a reserve force for the Hindus to fall 
back upon to voice their grievances more effectively than the joint Parliament can do, to 
scent danger ahead, to warn the Hindus in time against it and to fight out if needs be any 
treacherous design to which the joint State itself may unwittingly fall a victim. 

The History of Canada, of Palestine, of the movement of the young Turks will show 
you that in every State where two or more such conflicting elements as the Hindus and 
Moslems in India happen to exist as constituents, the wiser of them has to keep its exclusive 
organization intact, strong and watchful to defeat any attempt at betrayal or capture of the 
National State by the opposite party; especially so if that party has extra-territorial affinities, 
religious or cultural, with alien bordering States. This tussle between such constituents of 
such a State must continue till slowly if ever they all learn to get themselves merged, by 
developing a spirit of corporate patriotism, into a consolidated Nation. If the Hindus take this 
realistic truth to heart they will try their utmost to consolidate and strengthen the pan-Hindu 
organization which is already gathering force and has struck its roots deep in the Hindu 
soil. The nearer you are to Swarajya the more indispensable grows the necessity of a strong 
and consolidated Pan-Hindu organization or rather the stronger grows the Pan-Hindu 
organization the nearer it takes you to real 'Swa' - Rajya. 

IV 

The Practical Policy of the Hindu Movement 

I have so far dealt with some of the basic principles and tenets and set out the 
National and Political ideals of the Hindu Sanghatan movement as I perceive them. But the 
very fact that we have still to frame, emphasize and propagate the very ideals and ideology 
of the Hindu movement added to the fact that they imply an entire re-orientation of the 
public activities of the Hindu people so as to revolutionise the conception of the Indian State 
and its formation as we find it today, shows how we have hardly taken a step ahead and 
how strenuous and sustained a struggle we have yet to undergo before we are able to realise 
the goal, the creation of an Independence Hindusthan as we define it. Once the ideal is 
fixed, it is this struggle that matters most. And we must therefore, chalk out as urgently as 
possible, the lines on which our struggle can be carried on with the greatest effect and if 
possible with the least resistance. 

It must be noted also that although the ideal remains fixed the struggle to realise it 
can scarcely be on a straight line. We have now to confront, now to compromise; now to 
fight on, now to fall back and keep marking time. At times we shall have to ally ourselves on 
a given point with one of our opponents and then to oppose the former ally. This very 
inconsistency in detail resorted to in a long-drawn and life and death struggle to reach a goal 
is consistent enough if but it leads us on the whole irresistibly onward and onward to the 
great ideal we aim to realise. The policy I am going to outline should also be viewed from 
this tactical perspective. It is only related to our present circumstances and should not be 
taken as final. As our movement goes on gathering strength we may soon arrive at a point 
when it may march on with the irresistible strides of a giant and may grow powerful enough 
to demand and dictate things with a reckless heroism, which the puny beginnings today can 
hardly conceive or dare to express. 

I should also make it clear that in outlining this practical policy I am only expressing 
my personal views. They cannot bind the Hindu Mahasabha unless they are sanctioned by 
its corporate resolutions. 


Page 50 of 130 



Hindu Rashtra Darshan 


(a) Our first and foremost aim in our political activities must always be to guard the 
integrity of Hindusthan intact. Hindusthan to us does not only mean the so-called British 
India but comprises even those parts which are under the French and the Portuguese 
possessions, Gomantak and Pondicherry are as integral parts of our Motherland as 
Maharashtra or Bengal. From the Indus to the Himalayas, from the Himalayas to Tibet, from 
Tibet to Burma and from Burma to the Southern and Western seas run the lines of the 
boundaries of our Land. The whole territory including Kashmere and Nepal, Gomantak, 
Pondicherry and other French possessions constitutes our National and territorial unit and 
must be consolidated in a free and centralised State. It must ever remain undivided and 
indivisible. Any attempt to divide this Territorial and National unity of Hindusthan so as for 
example, to break it up into Hindu and Moslem Zones, must be opposed tooth and nail and 
chastised as an act of treason and treachery. 

(b) Towards our neighbouring States of Burma and Tibet on the Eastern and North- 
Easten front frontiers our policy will always be, so far as possible, of wholehearted friendship 
and if they choose, even of a political alliance. They are our co-religionists and our political 
interests too are not inherently antagonistic. Nay, we will only find, in general, our mutual 
political strength augmented if we continue to be political allies. 

(c) But towards those Moslem States and tribes which border our North-Western 
frontier our policy cannot but be a guarded one. Their tendency for centuries in the past had 
been fanatically inimical towards the Hindus and is likely to continue to be so far at least a 
century to come. The 

Hindu Sanghatanist party must always see that this Frontier is garrisoned with overwhelming 
Hindu troops and is never entrusted to Moslem ones. We will always be ready to establish 
friendly contact with those bordering States and shall give no cause for unnecessary strife 
but should keep our forces there always in a state of war and vigilant to resist any sudden 
aggressive eruption on the part of those Moslem tribes or any threatened invasion through 
the passes by any anti-Hindu alien army. 

(d) To the Independent Hindu Kingdom of Nepal all Hindudom feels itself most loyally 
attached and would ever strive to strain every nerve in defending its honour and integrity. It 
is the only part of our Motherland which continues down to this day as a Dharma Keshetra 
unsullied by the humiliating shadow of an alien non-Hindu Flag. The independence of the 
Hindu kingdom of Nepal, the home of a heroic Hindu Race, constitutes at once the pride and 
the centre of Hindu hope. Every atom of strength added to Nepal elevates and strengthens 
the prestige and the position of Hindudom 

all round. On the other hand anything that weakens or humiliates Hindudom in any othe 
part of Hindusthan must seaken the strength of Nepal in the long run. The danger of the 
Moslem upheaval on the North-Western Frontier, for example, cannot but be a standing 
menace to the independence of the Hindu kingdom in Nepal too. If Hindu history has not 
endowed us even with this much foresight then it must be said that all the lessons which the 
invasions of Gaznis and Ghoris were meant by destiny to teach us are lost on us. 

Nevertheless, it will be foolish on our part to do anything do drag Nepal into the 
muddled and slogan-ridden politics which disfigures the British Indian territory. The politics 
of a subject race can be no guide to the exigencies of an Independent Kingdom situated as 
Nepal. I, therefore, feel no hesitation whatsoever in justifying the present policy of the Nepal 
Government to maintain friendly relations with the British Government and to continue an 
informal Political alliance with the British with a view to guard against any other non-Hindu 
aggression on India. Consequently, it is also a very wise policy on the part of Nepal to 
supply as many Napalee recruits to the Indian forces as it is possible to do in conformity with 
its own security and strength. The political complications in Europe and the Far East are 


Page 51 of 130 



Hindu Rashtra Darshan 


almost sure to persuade the British Government too to depend more and more on Nepal's 
friendship and military help to secure Indian defence. 

In this connection it must be emphasized that the British Government should also 
restore some of those territories on the borders of Nepal which the British had wrested from 
her in the past, back to the King of Nepal. Such a step will cement the friendship between 
the two Nations as nothing else can do. 

Nepal has doubtless a great future before her if but she takes time by the forelock 
and has the Prophetic vision which a rising Nation must necessarily possess. She must bring 
up her military strength to an up-to-date European efficiency and must be able to defend 
herself not only on land but against any aerial aggression too by equipping herself with a 
powerful aerial force. Her strength being the strength of an ally, the British Government too 
is not likely under the present circumstances to hamper her in this attempt with any feeling 
of uneasiness but would rather wish her to hasten on this project. The influence which Nepal 
is likely to exercise on Indian politics in 

near future will be better pointed out in the words of Mr.Perceval Langdon the well-known 
author of the voluminous work on Nepal. 

Says Mr.Langdon, 'It invests Nepal with an importance which it would be foolish to 
overlook. Englishmen should attempt to understand a little more thoroughly the high 
position which Nepal holds in the general Southern Asiatic balance and the great and growing 
importance that she will posses in the future in the solution of the problems which beset the 
present state of India. Nepal stands today on the threshold of a new light. Her future calls 
her in one direction and one only. In all the varied theatres of Indian politics there is nothing 
which surpasses in interest the ultimate destiny of Nepal. Inevitably she will become of 
greater and greater importance if we persist in our present policy of lessening British 
influence in India. It is not impossible that Nepal may even be called upon to control 
the destiny of India itself. 

(e) The National Constitution of Hindusthan :- The Hindu Sanghanists Party aims to 
base the future constitution of Hindusthan on the broad principle that all citizens should have 
equal rights and obligations irrespective of caste or creed, race or religion,-provided they 
avow and owe an exclusive and devoted allegiance to the Hindusthani State. The 
fundamental rights of liberty of speech, liberty of conscience, of worship, of association etc. 
will be enjoyed by all citizens alike. Whatever restrictions will be imposed on them in the 
interest of the public peace and order of National emergency will not be based on any 
religious or racial considerations alone but on common National grounds. 

No attitude can be more National even in the territorial sense than this and it is this 
attitude in general which is expressed in substance by the curt formula 'one man one vote'. 
This will make it clear that the conception of a Hindu Nation, is in no way inconsistent with 
the development of a common Indian Nation, a united Hindusthani State in which all sects 
and sections, races and religiouns, castes and creeds, Hindus, Moslems, Christians, Anglo- 
Indians, etc. could be harmoniously welded together into a political State on terms of perfect 
equality. 

This attitude which the Hindu Mahasabha takes up with regard to the National 
Hindusthani Constitution is in fact more definitely and expressively National than either the 
League or even the Congress which calls itself Indian National has as yet dared to take up 
uncompromisingly and yet it is the Hindu Mahasabha and the conception of the Hindu Nation 
which is tabood by the Congress and the League as most dangerously anti-National and 
uncompromisingly communal ! The fact is that the National Congress itself is not only 
communal in its legitimate sense but perversely communal : in as much as it recognize a 


Page 52 of 130 



Hindu Rashtra Darshan 


majority and a minority, the Hindus and the Moslems and on the top of it all forces the 
majority to forgo its just share in the franchise, in the public services, in cultural rights and 
offers them to a minority based on religion to buy its patriotism and attachment to the 
common National State. On the other hand by asking for the Moslem as a religious entity 
wanton advantages over and above what they are entitled to on a National basis at the cost 
of the Hindus at the point of a dagger, with a threat to secede and join hands with an alien 
power, the Moslem League takes up a position which is anti-National to the point of 
treachery. In demanding three votes for one Moslem, the Moslem League is outrageously 
communal : while in calling upon the Hindus to yield to this demand and acceed to the 
proposal of one vote for three Hindus, the Congress is cowardly communal ! And yet it is 
precisely these two bodies, the Pesudo-National Congress and the confessedly anti-National 
League which have the temerity to accuse the Hindu Sanghanists party as communalistic and 
anti-National simply because they are not ready to betray their birthright for a mess of 
pottage,-to play the second fiddle to the Moslems or care for a worthless certificate from the 
Congressites of being 'Nationalistic !!' 

(f) The Rights of non-Hindu Minorities :-When once the Hindu Mahasabha not only 
accepts but maintains the principles of 'one man one vote' and the public services to go by 
merit alone added to the fundamental rights and obligations to be shared by all citizens alike 

irrespective of any distinction of race or religion.any further mention of minority 

rights is on principle not only unnecessary but self-contradictory, because it again introduces 
a consciousness of majority and minority on communal basis. But as practical politics require 
it and as the Hindu Sanghanists want to relieve our non-Hindu countrymen of even a ghost 
of suspicion, we are prepared to emphasize that the legitimate rights of minorities with 
regard to their religion, culture and language will be expressly guaranteed : on one condition 
only that the equal rights of the majority also must not in any case be encroached upon or 
abrogated. Every minority may have separate schools to train up their children in their own 
tongue, their own religious or cultural institutions and can receive Government help also for 
these,-but always in proportion to the taxes they pay into the common Exchequer. The 
same principle must of course hold good in case of the majority too. 

Over and above this, in case the constitution is not based on joint electorates and on 
the unalloyed National principle of one man one vote, but is based on the communal basis, 
then those minorities who wish to have separate electorate or reserve seats will be allowed 
to have them,-but always in proportion to their population and provided that it does not 
deprive the majority also of an equal right in proportion to its population too. 

I believe that our Christian, Parsee, the Jewish and other minorities, -except the 
Moslems, will be perfectly satisfied with the constitution based on these principles as broadly 
outlined above. Because the Christian, the Jews and most eminently the Parsees are too 
allied to us in culture and too patriotic, while the Anglo-Indians too sensible, to fail to see 
that no constitution if it has to keep the integrity, sovereignty and strength of the National 
State safe, can go any further and that it is all that is really required to safeguard any 
genuine special interests of the monorities as distinguished 

from those of the majority. Only that minority will insist to have still more and yet more to 
the last pound of flesh which in fact cherishes secret designs to disintegrate the State, to 
create a State within a State or altogether to subvert the National State and hold all others 
under its subjection. Fortunately no section of our countrymen belonging to the non-Moslem 
minorities mentioned above harbours this treasonable design. It is only with regard to the 
Moselm minority that this cannot be asserted with confidence; and therefore, I shall deal 
separately with it later on. 

In this connection a point of far-reaching importance and one which has a very 
serious bearing on the political, religious and cultural interest of the Christian, Jew and 
Parsee countrymen of ours in particular, must be mentioned in bold relief. The anti-National 


Page 53 of 130 




Hindu Rashtra Darshan 


and aggressive designs on the part of the Moslem minority constitiute a danger to all non- 
Moslem Indians in India and not only to the Hindus alone. It is too clear a point to require 
any further elucidation here. It is the anti-National attitude of the Moslem minority alone 
which is giving a handle to the British Government to obstruct further political and 
constitutional progress in Hindusthan. But in order to camouflage their own special 
responsibility for this guilt, the Moslems always try to drag in other minorities also in support 
of their attitude and want the world to believe that all non-Hindu minorities are as 
determinedly uncompromising in the anti-National demands advanced by the Moslem 
League. The League always wants to pose as the champion of all non-Hindu minorities. But 
the fact is that the relations of Christians, Jews and above all our Parsee brothren have been 
for centuries most cordial with us Hindus and these non-Moslem minorities have never 
advanced any anti-National or unreasonable claims or had never indulged in political 
hooliganism or fanatical riots as a silly means to impress their political importance. My 
earnest suggestion, therefore, to our Christians, Jews, Parsees and such other non-Moslem 
minorities would be that they should openly and definitely disown the league deisgns protest 
against being bracketed with the Moslems under the misleading and mischievous common 
term 'minorities', call upon the Moslem League not to speak in general on their behalf and 
above all should definitely declare through their respective political organizations that they 
are perfectly willing and contented to form a common National front with the Hindus under 
the conditions referred to above. If, but, the Christians, the Jews, the Parsees and all non- 
Moslem minorities and the Hindus presents a common understanding and a common front at 
any would-be Round Table Conference or constitutional Assembly the Moslems will find 
themselves singularly isolated and will be forced to cease to speak in the name of 'the 
minority problem' but will have to shoulder by themselves the responsibility of their anti- 
National and fanatical claims. These supercilious pretensions of Moslems of being a chosen 
minority and the bluff claiming political importance and historical traditions investing them 
with an incomparable superiority to the Indian people in general, constitutes a challenge and 
an insult to our Christians, J ews, Parsees and other countrymen too. 

(g) The Hindu Mahasabha and the Congress :- I have no space here nor the 
inclination to frame a charge-sheet against the Congress, enumerating the grievous errors it 
has been committing under the dictatorship of Gandhiji and the leaders of his persuasion 
ever since the Khilafat agitation; setting at not even the protests of such eminent Hindu 
Patriots as Lokmanya Tilak, Lala Lajpat Rai, Swami Shradhanand and others, which errors 
have weakened and humiliated Hindudom at every step. I have no inclination to do so or 
condemn them even in such harsh terms as the gravity of the errors in fact demand. 
Because I know that some of them have rendered eminent services to our motherland and 
many of them meant well. Although the Congress as a body has been ungrateful to a degree 
in failing to appreciate the patriotic sacrifice and service the Hindu Mahasabhaits have 
rendered equally with and in cases even far more intensely than the Congressites in the fight 
for the Freedom of Hindusthan, yet let every Hindu Sanghanists be just and generous in 
brotherly appreciation of the patriotic motives of those of the Congressites who had been 
highly selfless and sacrificing. It is not their motive but their judgement and in a couple of 
cases a monomaniac incompetence which were responsible for the erroneous policy they 
persisted in which has done incalculable harm to the Hindu cause and which if not 
checkmated is likely to jeopardise not only the legitimate interests of Hindudom far more 
dangerously than in the past but even the vital interests of the 'Indian Nation' too as the 
Congress itself understands it and loves so well. 

It is not, therefore, to rake up fruitlessly the sad memories of the most grievous 
errors which the Congressites committed in their indentification with the Khilafat agitation but 
to warn against the imminent dangers of a similar type that I must refer to a few facts 
regarding the attitude of the Gandhist politicians in that ill-fated movement. In spite of the 
warnings of the Great Tilak, Gandhiji committed the Congress to the purely communal, 


Page 54 of 130 



Hindu Rashtra Darshan 


religious and extra-territorial Khilafat agitation to placate the Moslems and himself went to 
the length of insisting on the point that the question of Swaraj itself should be subordinated 
to the Khilafat issue;-nay, he said it was the religious duty of the Hindus to help the Kalipha ! 
And yet the same Congress leaders forbade the Congress even to touch the Nizam Civil 
Resistance movement as a thing unclean and denounced it as communal because it 
demanded the religious and cultural rights of Hindus ! Not only that but true to their words 
these Congressite Hindu leaders did not subordinate Swaraj to the Khilafat question only in 
its figurative aspect but were hand in golve with the Moslem leaders who instigated Amir 
Amanullakhan to invade India as he actually did. We have the word of Swami Shradhanandji 
for it. The Swamiji publicly wrote to that effect in protest in this 'Liberator' and produced 
some documentary evidence and a draft telegram in Gandhiji's handwriting to the Amir which 
Maulana Mahomad Ali had shown to Swamiji. In his own Young India, Gandhiji admitted that 
the Afghans if successful were sure to establish their kingdom in India (see Young India 1-6- 
21)-and yet these Congressite Hindu leaders did not dissociate themselves from the Moslem 
leaders in their open and secret activities to peg on the Afghan Invasion, but on the contrary 
promised support to this treacherous move. Gandhiji writes in his Young India (4-5-21) 'I 
would in a sense certainly assist the Amir of Afghanisthan if he waged war against the 
British Government-by openly telling my countrymen that it would be a crime to help the 
Government, etc.' If you like to see the length these gentlemen had gone in this affair you 
may read a useful tract recently published by Mr.Karandikar of Poona which is full of original 
extracts from the speeches and writings of the then Congress leaders and Gandhiji's Young 
India. What is most surprising to note is the fact that these Hindu leaders outbid even the 
Ali Brothers, the 'National' Maulana Azad and other Moslem leaders in maintaining that if the 
Amir succeeded in capturing Delhi, we would have won Swaraj !-for, they definitely stated 
that the rule of the Afghans was in itself a Swaraj,-'we Hindu Moslems are one,- an indivisible 
Nation.' I vividly remember conversations I had with these Hindu leaders of Gandhist 
persuasion when they used to meet me then in prison. How expectantly they waited for the 
invading armies of the Amir to capture Lahore ! Well, after all the Khilaphat was guillotined 
by the Turks themselves and the Amir Amanullah instead of being an Emperor at Delhi was 
dethroned by a Bachha Saku in Kabul itself; and all that India reaped from the Khilaphat 
agitation was the intensified Pan-1 slamic fanaticism roused by that movement amongst the 
Indians Moslems all over India, aided and abetted by the Hindus themselves who paid dearly 
for this their folly there and then in Malabar, Kohat, Punjab, Bengal-and will have yet to pay 
unless they learn to react. 

While the Khilaphat was on his brain, in a reply he gave to the correspondent of the 
Daily Express, London, Gandhiji disclosed his plan of converting the Afghans from fanatical 
turbulance into a peaceful citizenship thus, 'I would introduce the spinning wheel amongst 
the Afghan tribes also and then that will prevent them from attacking Indian territory. I feel 
the tribesmen are in their own way God-fearing people.' 

Yes, 'in their own way' : That is the trouble. For, we can clearly discern their own 
way of God fearingness in the ghastly light of Hindu habitations set on fire throughout the 
frontier line from Sindh to Kashmere. Only Hindus looted, only Hindus killed, only Hindu 
women and men kidnapped !! Is not the Fakir of Ipi also a God-fearing man in his own way ! 
And the spinning wheel to persuade them from attacking India ! How many centuries after, 
Sir ? And what are we Hindus to do in the meanwhile ? 

To garrison the frontiers with hosts of Hindu damsels with the charm of the spinning 
wheel in their hands-as Gandhiji has suggested quite seriously at one of the sittings of the 
Round Table Conference ? 

Well, gentlemen, I am not referring to these few details in any light mood. I want 
you to realise the mentality and the ideology of these Hindu leaders who still happen to be at 


Page 55 of 130 



Hindu Rashtra Darshan 


the helm of the Congress. Neither Gandhiji or Pandit Nehru, nay, not even Subhas Babu or 
Mr.Ray, who, although they do not contribute in any way to some of the above vagaries of 
the Gandhist school, are still votaries-l call it victims-of the school of thought which says in 
so many words. 'Give to the Moslems so much that they could not wish to ask for anything 
more. 1 They may sincerely believe that to be the crux of Nationalism and wisdom. But do 
you, who do not wish to see Hindudom humiliated and browbeaten into servility, believe it to 
be so ? If not, are you going to authorise these very gentlemen by electing and returning 
them as representatives who can speak in the name of the Hindus once again at any Round 
Table Conference to come, to enter into any new pact with the Moslems on behalf of the 
Hindus or entrust the destiny of the North-Western Frontiers into the hands of the Khan 
brothers who are the Congress Plenipotentiaries and Gandhiji;s certified lieutenants there-as 
once the Ali brothers were ? I call upon those thousands of Hindus also who have not ceased 
to be Hindus but who still follow the Congress with a blind habitual trait to ponder as 
seriously as possible on these questions. 

After the Khilaphat, came the Blank cheques; then the Communal Award or Decision,- 
lapses of memory, 1 make the Congress leaders call it sometimes this way sometimes that, 
but which always remains definitely unrejected and in fact accepted and worked out by 
them. Then rushed in the flood of circulars issued by Congress ministers in all provinces, 
Mr.Pant, for example, assuring the Moslems, amongst other things. I quote his words, 'At 
Barabanki the Congress Government stopped Hindus from doing Arti in their own temples 
and blowing conch-shells during the whole period of Moharrum and at several places during 
the Holi, the Hindus were prevented from sprinkling colour-water even on Hindus amongst 
themselves. At Jaunpur the District Magistrate was attacked by Moslems but the accused 
were released on the recommendation of the Secretary of the Moslem League. The Congress 
Government has given representation to the Moslems out of all proportion to their numerical 
strength which came upto only 14%. But out of four Collectors appointed by the Congress 
Government three were Moslems and out of 13 Deputy Collectors eight were Moslems'. So 
on and so on. Every Hindu should read this whole circular issued by the U.P. Congress 
Government. It is a masterpiece of self-condemnation. It was secretly circulated only 
amongst the Moslems, but the Hindu-sabhaits, those cursed 'communalist' traitors got hold of 
some copies of this our 'National' confession and broadcasted its reprints. Space forbids me 
from quoting from other circulars issued by Provincial Congress Government in C.P., Madras, 
etc. all fashioned after the same pattern pleading in substance before the Tribunal of the 
Moslem League : 'Sir, we have deprived the Hindus everywhere of what is due to them and 
given Moslems overwhelmingly more than was due, oppressed the Hindus as best as we 
could wherever the Moslems were pleased to demand it : So let the League be pleased, 
therefore, Sir, to certify that the Congress Ministries were truly impartial and perfectly 
National !!!' 

And the Moslem League has certified at last by observing the Day of Deliverance from 
the Congress Tyranny under which the Moslems groaned for the past two long long enduring 
years. In a way it was a tryanny : for in all those provinces where the Moslems were only 7 
to 12 % in numerical strength the Congress gave them posts in the stingy proportion of 40 to 
75 % only in the Educational, Police and other Administrative departments where they ought 
to have got cent per cent in consideration of their 'historical importance', for their being the 
direct communal descendants of the Moghul Emperors ! Has not even Lord Zetland referred 
to the warlike qualities of the Moslems only this month, and reminded the Congressite Hindus 
that the Moslem Emperors ruled over India for a time, implying thereby that the Moslems 
were, therefore, some superior beings to the Hindus ! It was fortunate that His Lordship was 
never sent in his early youth to any primary Maratha school. Otherwise he would have been 
deprived of the advantage of that argument by a little more knowledge of the fate of that 
Moslem Empire, how the avenging hosts of Hindus had beaten to a chip the forces of these 
'Warlike Moslems' in a hundred battlefields, smashed to pieces this self-same Moghul Empire, 


Page 56 of 130 



Hindu Rashtra Darshan 


rearing up an Independent Hindu Empire on the ashes of Moslems Pride and power and held 
the Moghul Emperors as prisoners and pensioners in their hands. 

But it is no use now on the part of our Congress friends to fulminate against this 
latest move of the Moslem League. The Deliverance Day of today is but the inevitable logical 
consequence of the Khilaphat Day so gaily observed by the Congress yesterday. It is you 
whohave initiated the Moslems into the belief that the more they demand the more you yield, 
the more they frown the more you placate, the more they pocket the more you offer, the 
more thankless they grow the more afflicted you are with craving for their thanks. Did you 
not offer them blank cheques ? Why then get startled, now that they begin to fill them up 
with whatever ransom they are pleased to demand ! Dr. Munje, Bhai Paramanand and other 
leaders of the Hindu Mahasabha protested against the Khilaphat Policy, against your blank 
cheques, against your meaningless 'neither accept nor reject vagaries',-but you then 
denounced them all as wicked communalists, looked down even upon Shivaji and Pratap as 
misguided Patriots, because they conquered by the Sword and you gave yourself out as new 
messiahs who have come to conquer by the love alone, as world guides in direct 
communications with the inner voice. And now how pitiable it is to find you so sorely 
afflicted for want of guidance for yourselves to find out a way to appease and win over by 
love alone a single individual, the President of the League, that you should stand imploring at 
the gates of all the British Governors and the Viceroys to lend you a helping hand. 

Then again, whenever it happened that some British Authorities or leaders referred to 
the Policy of the Hindu Mahasabha on a point here or there with a tinge of appreciation our 
Congress Nationalists used to exclaim in righteous indignation, 'There ! what more proof is 
required to expose the anti-National guilt of these Hindu Mahasabhaite communalists than 
the fact that the British people should appreciate their Policy on this or that point. And now 
there is a regular scramble amongst these Nationalist Congress leaders to secure and flourish 
in the face of the world certificates of appreciation from the British Governors and the 
Viceroys to prove that the Congress Ministries were after all not so bad and had served under 
the British Government to its satisfaction. Moreover, it is also very funny to observe that 
those very Congress leaders who blamed the Hindu Sanghanists 

whenever they claimed a legitimate protection from the British Government against the 
Moselm outrages on the Frontier or in Malabar or in Bengal, should now be vying with each 
other in calling upon Governors and the Viceroy to arbitrate as the best judges and save the 
Congress prestige by declaring it not guilty in the very serious case framed against them by 
the Moslem League. Is it not now anti-National to appeal to the British-the third party-the 
outsiders to step in to settle our internal diferences which we may have with 'our Moslem 
countrymen ?' 

It is also instructive and therefore, necessary to point out here that this theory of 'the 
third party' also constituted a Congress superstition which was responsible for so many of its 
errors. They always used to fancy that the Moslems, if left to themselves would never have 
indulged in any anti-national, ulterior, anti-Hindudesigns. The Moslems-including Messrs. 
Jinnah, Huq, and Hayat Khan,-were very simple-minded folk incpable of any political 
subterfuges and as devotes of I slam-peace and goodwill, had no aggressive political aims of 
their own against the Hindus. Nay, even the Frontier tribes, the 'brave brothers Moplas,' the 
Moslem populations in Bengal or Sindh who indulge in such horrible outrages against Hindus 
have no taste for it all, nursed within themselves-but were almost compelled to rise and 
revolt against the Hindus by 'the third party' the Britishers. When the British did not step in 
we Hindus and Moslems lived together in perfect amity and brotherly concord and Hindu- 
Moslem riots was a thing simply unheard of. 

Thousands of Congressite Hindus are observed to have been duped in to this silliest 
of political superstitions. As if Mahamad Kasim, Gazanis, Ghoris, Allauddins, Aurangzebs 


Page 57 of 130 



Hindu Rashtra Darshan 


were all instigated by the British, by this third party, to invade and lay waste Hindu India with 
a mad fanatical fury. As if the history of the last ten centuries of perpetual war between the 
Hindus and Moslems was an interpolation and a myth. As if the Alis or Mr. Jinnah or Sir 
Shikandar were mere school children to be spoiled with the offer of sugar pills by the British 
vagabonds in the class and persuaded to throw stones at the house of their neighbours. 
They say, 'before the British came, Hindu-Moslem riots were a thing unheard of. 1 Yes, but 
because instead of riots Hindus-Moslems wars was the order of the day. 

But supposing for a while what the Gandhists maintain that it is this third party, the 
British, who are solely responsible for hypnotising, Moslems into anti-Hindu and anti-National 
tendencies, how is it that Gandhiji and his Congressite Leiutenants are invoking the very 
'Third party'-the British Governors and the Viceroys to act as arbitrators, to judge whether 
the Congress was really guilty of the accusations levelled by the Moslem League against it ? 
Is the leading abetter the best person to arbitrate ? To request him whom you accuse as the 
leading instigator to investigate into the crime ? If the Congress superstition was true then 
the British are sure to adjudge the Award in a way to intensify the ill-will and distrust 
between the Congressite and the League so as to undermine yet further any chances of 
Hindu-Moslem understanding and concord. So then either your third party 
theory was wrong and superstitious or you have obviously bungled in approaching the very 
mischief-making third party to arbitrate. 

The simple fact which the Congressite Hindus would do well to take a note of even 
now and which would spare them from a series of such inconsistent and bungling steps is 
that the Moslem religion, theocratic traditions and history all imbue them with inherent 
ambition of Islamic political sovereignty. The British policy at times when it suits British 
interest does of course act as a match-but the explosive magazine is genuinely Moslem. IT 
COULD BE HELD IN CHECK, but woe to him who overlooks its existence and dupes himself 
into the belief that the match itself was the magazine. If not the British-make, any other 
match may serve the same purpose. Nay, spontaneous combustion is also its peculiar 
characteristic. Secondly, the Moslems are practical politicians to a fault. So they, in general, 
yield to and ally instinctively with the stronger, even if he be their worse opponent,- and 
continue to bully the weaker. Has not England reduced them to a subject race in India and 
elsewhere ? But today England is the stronger of the two. So they will fawn on England and 
continue to aggrandise against the Hindus. If tomorrow the Hindus grow stronger they will 
be yielding to Hindus too and behave as brothers as they did in Maharashtra and Punjab in 
the days of the Peshwas or Ranjit Singh. That is why 'Hindu-Moslem riots were a thing 
unheard of in days gone by' to quote the Congressite Slogan. 

The best way to counteract the League's Day of 
Deliverance is, for the Congress to observe 
the Day of Rectification 

In all sincerity I request my Congressite brothers that in stead of fuminating against 
the move of the League or what is more likely especially in the case of the Gandhist group 
instead of being yet more browbeaten, the best way would be to take it as an effective eye- 
opener and arrest their steps once for all on the dangerous path they were treading. They 
should simply refuse to have any further dealing with the Moslems as Moslems. Let the 
Indian National Congress rectify that fundamental mistake and be once more the real Indian 
National Congress as it claims to be. Let it be absolutely consistent with its own ideal of a 
territorial Nationalism, and begin with a clean slate. 

Let it proclaim once for all that it stands by these principles alone; Firstly, it 
recognizes no Moslem as a Moslem, or Christian as a Christian, or Hindu as a Hindu; but look 
upon them all and deal with them all as Indians only; and, therefore, will have nothing to do 


Page 58 of 130 



Hindu Rashtra Darshan 


with any special, communal, religious or racial interests as apart from the fundamental 
interests guaranteed to all citizens alike. Secondly, it does not acknowledge any other 
constitutional principle with regard to electorates than the rule 'one man one vote 1 and public 
services to go by merit alone. Only one alternative it may condescend to subscribe in view of 
the peculiar situation in India to the effect that if communal representation is to be resorted 
to at all then it must strictly be in relation to the numerical strength of the constituents and 
in the public services too that relation may be observed-but only in so far as it is consistent 
with merit. 

Thirdly, and above all, so long as such a National and just constitution could not be 
had, let the Congress resist the temptation of participating in any election whatsoever under 
a constitution which is deliberately meant to divide the integrity of the Indian people and is 
not only used on communal divisions but is most unjustly harmful to the majority community 
and constitutes a standing instigation to the Moslem minority to act against the Nation as a 
whole as the present constitution aims to do. So long as there are separate electorates the 
Moslems and the gnenral, which in fact means the Hindu one, then let the Moslem League 
and the Hindu Mahasabha participate in the elections and let the Congredd stand supremely 
aloof as a truly Indian National body which can never condescend to identify itself with any 
particular communal electorate. 

If but the Congress takes courage in both hands, rectifies its past anti-Hindu and anti- 
National attitude and takes up the stand I have suggested above, the prestige of the 
Congress as a truly National Organization will immediately be enhanced. In that case it will 
regain in general the whole-hearted confidence of the Hindu Mahasabha at any rate. 

But it can on no account continue to play the doublefaced game of getting elected on 
behalf of the Hindu electorate as Hindus and betray the legitimate interests of the Hindus as 
Nationalists. It can no longer hunt with the hound and run with the hare. Otherwise the 
Moslems bound to continue and rightly so to look upon it as a Hindu body while the Hindus 
will look upon it and rightly too as a pseudo-Nationalistic nuisance dangerous to the Hindu 
cause as well as the Indian National one. 

May I hope that the Congress will open its eyes ? If it does even now it is not yet too 
late ! As my friend Mr.Ketkar proposses in the Maratha of Poona let the Congress observe a 
Day of Rectification to counteract the League's day of Deliverance, proclaim the truly 
National orientation suggested above and write to the League the last word closing all further 
correspondence-'Sirs, if you come, with you; if you do not, without you; and if you oppose, in 
spite of you'-we shall continue the good fight to free our Hindusthan as best as we can. 

And in case our Moslem friends want to have a royal commission to define their rights 
let the Congress tell them uncompromisingly, 'if you want to have a resort to any 
independent arbitration, well, then the highest tribunal of that nature can be but the League 
of Nations which has already framed a public Law with regard to the rights of minorities all 
over the world. The case of Indian minorities also should be referred to the League'. In fact, 
had the Congress taken up this stand as uncompromisingly as possible and as Dr. Munje had 
already suggested then at the Round Table Conference, things could never have drifted in 
this wild way. 

(h) The Hindu Mahasabha will have to frame a detailed programmme of its economic 
policy in the near future when it issues its electoral manifesto. All that I can do now is to 
suggest a few broad principles, as space forbids dilation. Firstly, it must be remembered that 
man is not altogether an economical being. It has been well said by Christ that man does 
not live by bread alone. As it is spiritually true it is also true in the racial, cultural, national 
and several other aspects that go to constitute the human nature. Therefore, the attempt to 


Page 59 of 130 



Hindu Rashtra Darshan 


interpret all human history and human activities in economical terms alone is altogether 
onesided and amounts to maintaining that man has no other urge in him to live but hunger. 

Besides hunger, the problem of bread, man has other appetites as fundamental as 
that, sensual, intellectual, sentimental, some natural, some acquired, some personal, some 
social and his being is a complex one; so also is his history. Man has a stomach but the 
stomach is not man. Therefore, the solution that is sometimes suggested to the effect that 
the economical community of interest provides the only and the best solvent of all religious, 
racial, national and other antipathies that divide mankind in the world is as superficial as 
simple. The fact that in Europe the very races and nations wherein the prophets of this 
school arose and preached and where giant efforts were made to revolutionise all human 
institutions and recast them into this economical mould alone, religious, racial, and national 
differences have been assuming formidable proportions and have been persisting to assert 
themselves in Germany, Italy, France, Poland, England, Spain, etc. in spite of centuries of 
the most intense propaganda to insist on economical community of interest, is enough to 
prove that you cannot altogether eliminate all religious or racial or national factors at a 
stroke, at a thought. Those who advance the easy argument : 'If but you persuade all to 
unite on the economical plane and to forget every other superstitious difference as racial, 
cultural, etc.' forget themselves that the very 'but' in their argument rebuts the practical 
utility at any rate, apart from its theoretical soundness. Consequently the Hindu 
Sanghatanists must in no case delude themselves with the belief that the economical 
programme alone will ever suffice to solve all cultural, racial, and national dangers that 
threaten them throughout India. 

Secondly, they should remember that economical questions too are inextricably 
bound up under the circumstances obtaining in India with religious and racial complications. 
There are thousands of examples which the workers in the Hindu Sanghatanist field know 
through experience that if a Hindu takes to a particular trade which happens to be the 
monopoly of the Moslems he is persecuted. A new Hindu Pinjari or Tangewala is threatened 
at several places with death. Witness the fact that Moslem dacoits who attack cities and 
villages on the Frontiers and loot them proclaim at drum-beats 'we will only loot Hindus, no 
Moslems shopkeepers or money-lenders will we touch.' Hundreds and hundreds of cases of 
this type could be cited. Now, how are you to afford immediate relief to these Hindus unless 
by organizing them as Hindus ? Moslem police, as Moslems, defend them not. It is clearly a 
religious, reacial and cultural plague and only the patent economical pills can afford no cure. 
To preach to these millions of fanatics, for example the rioters in Sukkur District, that their 
economical interests are one with the Hindus and thus convert them into human brotherhood 
? Well, let them try it who like ! - but how many centuries will it take ? and what are the 
Hindus to do in the meanwhile ? It is just to match the monomaniac remedy of Gandhiji-the 
spinning wheel, by which he wants to convert the whole world into Ahimsa and make it 
resort to eternal disarmament ! Yet, let the wise mouse himself be asked to put into practice 
his excellent suggestion to bell the cat and let all others in the meanwhile take to other 
practical contrivances and steps to save themselves ! 

Consequently, leaving aside the doctrinaire solution of a human economical front or 
the airy hopes that if but we insist on the economical community of interest of all alike and 
unite all Indians at any rate, on the economical plane alone all religious, racial, national and 
cultural animosities will vanish like a mist, we Hindu Sanghatanists should as practical 
politicians restrict our immediate economical programme to the economical advance of the 
Hindu Nation alone. 

Taking into consideration the special circumstances obtaining in India and the stage 
of social progress, the only school of economics which will suit our requirements in the 
immediate future is the school of Nationalistic economy. To express all the leading factors of 


Page 60 of 130 



Hindu Rashtra Darshan 


our economical policy in a suitable formula I should like to style it as the policy of 'National 
co-ordination of class interests'. This is the economical flank of the Hindu Sanghatanist 
platform. 


Our immediate Economical Policy - the 
National Co-ordination of Class Interests 

(a) We shall first of all welcome the machine. This is a Machine age. The handcrafts 
will of course have their due place and encouragement. But National production will be on 
the biggest possible machine scale, (b) The peasantry and the working class form literally 
the chief source of National wealth, health and strength as well; for, a stalwart army also has 
for its recruit depot to depend chiefly on these very classes which supply the Nation with the 
first two requisites. Therefore, every effort will be made to revigorate them and the villages 
which are their cradle. Peasants and labourers must be enabled to have their share in the 
distribution of wealth to 

such an extent as to enable them not only with a bare margin of existence but the average 
scale of a comfortable life. Nevertheless it must be remembered that they too being a part 
and parcel of the Nation as a whole must share obligations and responsibilities and therefore, 
can only receive their share in such a way as is consistent with the general development and 
security of the National Industry, manufacture and wealth in general, (c) As the National 
capital is under the present circumstances mainly individual and indispensable for the 
development of National Industry and manufacture, it also will receive due encouragement 
and recompense, (d) But the interests of both the capital and labour will be subordinated to 
the requirement of the Nation as a whole, (e) If an Industry is flourishing, the profits will be 
shared in a large portion by the labourers. But on the contrary if it is a losing concern, not 
only the Capitalist but to a certain extent even the Labourer will have to be satisfied with 
diminishing returns so that the National Industry, as such may not altogether be undermined 
by the overbearing attitude of the selfish class interest of either the capitalists or labourites. 
In short the claims of the capital and labour will be so co-ordinated from time to time as to 
enable the Nation as a whole to develop its National Industry and manufacture and make 
itself self-sufficient, (f) In cases some of the key industries or manufactures and such other 
items may be altogether nationalized if the National Government can afford to do so and can 
conduct them more efficiently than private enterprise can do. (g) The same principle applies 
to cultivation of land. We should so co-ordinate the interest of the landlord and the peasant 
that the National agricultural production may on the whole be developed and does not suffer 
owing to any selfish tussle between the class interests of the landowner or the tenents or the 
tiller, (h) In some cases the Government may take over the land and introduce State 
cultivation if it can serve to train up the peasant class as a whole with the use of big 
machines and agriculture on a large and scientific scale, (i) All strikes or lockouts which are 
obviously meant or inevitably tend to undermine and cripple National Industry or production 
in general or are calculated to weaken the economic strength of the Nation as a whole must 
be referred to State arbitration and get settled or in serious cases quelled, (j) Private 
property must in general be held inviolate, (k) And in no case there should be on the part of 
the State any expropriation of such property without reasonable recompense. (I) Every step 
must be taken by the State to protect National Industries against foreign competition. 

I have hurriedly lined out above items to serve as illustrations only. The National 
economical strength must grow and the Nation must be made economically self-sufficient; 
these two form the pivot of the Policy. 

A special feature of no less importance of this Hindu Sanghatanists economics must 
of course be to safeguard the economical interests of the Hindus wherever and whenever 
they may be threatened by the economical aggression of the non-Hindus as happens today 
of a set policy in the Nizam State, in the Punjab, in Bhopal, in Assam and in several other 


Page 61 of 130 



Hindu Rashtra Darshan 


parts of India. Hindu Sabhas in all localities should make it a point to see that the Hindu 
peasants, the Hindu traders, the Hindu labourers do not suffer at the hands of non-Hindu 
aggression while the conflicting class interests amongst the Hindus themselves should be 
solved in the light of the above general principle. 

V 

Our immediate Programme for the next two years. 

The European WAR The two explicit resolutions passed by the Working Committee 
regarding our Policy towards the War in Europe leave nothing more to be said on that 
subject, as no new event has happened to demand a change. I exhort the British 
Government once more that a definite and immediate declaration of granting the Dominion 
Status as contemplated in the Westminster Statute to India, at the end of the War at the 
latest is the only means to secure a whole-hearted sympathy of the Hindu people with 
England in this present struggle and to ensure the willingness even of an Independent India 
in future to continue a co-partnership in the commonwealth on equal terms. Any delay in 
granting the Dominion Status as an immediate step to enable India to tread on the path of 
evolutionary progress towards her ultimate political destiny would prove dangerous even to 
the solidarity of the British commonwealth. The rise and rapid advance of Japan in the East, 
of Russia, Italy and Germany in the west are events portentous and a contented and 
selfgoverning India cannot but be a mighty factor in strengthening the British position in 
facing any anti-British combination. But no amount of political sophistry can disarm Indian 
discontent and make her tolerate the humiliation of continuing as a British dependency. Do 
you expect any longer to dupe her into the belief that it is only the want of an understanding 
between the Indian majority and minority, the Hindus and Moslems with regard to such 
details as the percentage in representation, etc. that justifies England in delaying the grant 
of Dominion Status forthwith ? The British Statesmen have recently stated that their 
conscience forbids to thrust an understanding on the minority, the Moslems, in India, against 
their will and would not move an inch till the Hindus and Moslems have produced a willing 
compromise and a common demand for a progressive constitution. It was really a news to 
learn that English Statesmen have grown so god-fearing and Democratical almost overnight 
as not to be willing to thrust on any people anything against their own will ! But may it be 
asked that when you thrust your unmitigated political autocracy on India, was their any 
plebiscite taken to a certain Indian opinion ? Or did you take a plebiscite or receive a united 
request form the minority and the majority when only a couple of months ago you scrapped 
up the provincial autonomy at a stroke and invested Governors with powers to conduct the 
Government at their own discretion and in their own judgement ? And if you could thrust 
undiluted autocracy, a vassalage on India and hold her as a dependency, can you not thrust 
a Dominion Status on her in spite of the will of a Monority and especially so when the 
majority has unanimously demanded it ? You can thrust curses-can you not thrust blessings 
? The sooner the British people cease to have a resort to these transparent political 
subterfuges and to utilize the Moslem minority to camouflage their own unwillingness to 
grant Hindusthan her birthright, her Swarajya, while she is still treading on an evolutionary 
path of political progress the better for England, the better for India. If the evolutionary path 
is thus altogether closed to the Hindus in particular by empowering the Moslems with a 
definite veto on all equitable progress a deadlock may ensue, but only for a while. Because 
nature hates vacuum : and if evolutionary progress is denied, the gathering forces of Time 
Spirit cannot but take the other and more dangerous turn. 

Next two years’ Constructive Programme for the Hindu Sabhaits Unless indeed 
something unexpected and a far more imminent and urgent duty faces us in the meanwhile I 
call upon all Hindusabhas whether local, provincial or central, to concentrate their efforts on 
the following threefold constructive programme in the main. 


Page 62 of 130 



Hindu Rashtra Darshan 


We have numberless tasks before us, all useful, all pressing, in their own way. But it 
is always better to begin with the beginning. Instead of getting lost in details or trying to do 
all at once and ending in leaving everything undone or ill-done or bungled, carried away by 
anything and everything that comes in the way, it is always wiser to choose relatively what is 
most fundamental. Most effective and at the same time within the reach of our present 
resources and ability and hit upon a plan to intensify our efforts on those items only in the 
main. 


We should also remember that unless we gather strength we cannot and should not 
always be after precipitating struggles only for the sake of demonstration and excitement at 
the risk of courting an inevitable failure, when it is uncalled for. Navigators abide by the tide. 
Even lions lie in wait. Great dread-naughts are built in silent and hidden quarters of the 
ports before they are called out in action and can with their multi-throated roar and the route 
their opponents. 

I have not selected the following items at random. All the above factors are taken 
into consideration in their selection. These three items are the most fundamental, the most 
urgent and yet quite within the reach of almost every Hindu Sanghatanist who means to do 
the really needful at the hour which, though it may not be quite exciting to begin with, is yet 
quite sure to enable the forces of Hindudom to face a righteous fight in defence of its 
honour and freedom when the hour is struck. Those who can undertake other items of the 
Sanghatan work along with these may of course do so. But our first and foremost attention 
must be concentrated on these three items for the next two years to begin with. Whatever 
we will be able to accomplish in this direction with these two years will put us in a position of 
vantage to solve other questions far more effectively than it can be done if we take them up 
now. Therefore,- 

Intensify your efforts on conducting a whirlwind campaign at every village and town 
and city to,- 

(1) Remo ve Untouchability, 

(2) Compel all universities, colleges and schools to make military training compulsory to 
students and secure entry into the Naval, Aerial and Military forces and institutions for 
your youths in any and every way. 

(3) Prepare the Hindu Electorate to the utmost measure possible to vote only for those 
Hindu Sanghatanists who openly pledge to safeguard Hindu interests;-and not to vote 
for the Congress Candidates, who can never serve Hindu interests with full freedom 
and boldness even if they wish or promise to do so, so long as they are bound by the 
Congress discipline and tied to the Congress ticket. 

The first of these items will enable you to consolidate at lest a couple of crores of 
your own brethren who are religiously, culturally, nationally and in every other way as much 
a part and parcel of Hindudom as any of us can claim to be. Every local Hindusabha must see 
to it in its own locality that these our so-called untouchable brethren are immediately 
elevated to the level of the so-called touchables by securing to them all fundamental rights 
which every citizen, even non-Hindus are entitled to exercise in public life. We should 
persuade our touchable brothers, in cases wherever untouchable brothers are oppressed in 
any way on the only ground of untouchability based on birth alone to fight their cause out if 
need be by resorting to Law Courts. Of course we should on no account molest or disrespect 
the sentiments of our Sanatani brothers so far as their personal freedom is concerned. But 
in public schools, conveyances, posts, services and in every aspect of public life no Hindu 
should be permitted to deprive other Hindus of their public rights on ground of caste 
untouchability alone. Whatever social equality we Hindus allow to Moslems and other non- 
Hindus must as of right belong to our Hindu brothers of whatever caste they be. To act 


Page 63 of 130 



Hindu Rashtra Darshan 


otherwise is in reality an insult to our common Hinduness. It must be plainly mentioned here 
that even those who are at present bracketed as untouchables are themselves guilty of this 
sin just like those who are bracketed as touchable Hindus. For, every untouchable caste 
treats some other caste supposed to be inferior to it as untouchable as ruthlessly as it is 
treated itself by others. The sin is common to all of us and therefore, let us all join hands 
together and be determined to remove this curse with a supreme effort. In the meanwhile 
our Sanatani brothers may rest assured that barring the fundamental rights which every 
citizen is entitled to in public life, the Hindu Mahasabha will always refrain from having any 
recourse to law to thrust any religious reform on any sect within the Hindu fold even in the 
case of untouchability. But those Hindu Sanghatanists who are convinced of the incalculable 
harm untouchability has done and is doing should also be free to act up according to their 
own conscience in their own dealings. The lines on which I call upon the Hindu 
Sanghatanists to carry on an intense campaign of removing untouchability would be made 
clear from time to time as the work proceeds. I may mention here even at the risk of a 
personal reference that those who can should make it a point to read the report of the ten 
years' work done by the Ratnagiri Hindusabha under my lead in conducting such an intense 
campaign against untouchability which was attended with notable success, it will also make 
it dear that the approach of the Hindu Sab ha to the question of the removal of untouchability 
differs at the root from the approach of the Gandhist attempt to remove it. Therefore, 
although we may co-operate yet we should not identify our movement with the Gandhist 
Movement. 

In the next two year's time we Hindusabhaits must do more in removing 
untouchability than two hundred years could do in the past. 

So far as the second item is concerned the plans will be outlined in the All-India 
Committee and the sittings of the Working Committee from time to time. 

The third item constitutes of course the very key stone of the whole programme. 
Unless and until the Hindu electorate does not return only the 

Hindu Sanghatanists to the Legislatures and local bodies but allows the Congress the right to 
represent the Hindu Electorate in the eyes of the Government, the Hindus must continue to 
remain as political orphans in Hindusthan, in their own country. The Hindus may fight and 
win Political rights as they have done to a great extent in the past. But so long as they have 
not cured themselves of this suicidal folly of resigning those rights in the hands of the 
Congress at the polls, they can never expect to strengthen the legitimate position of 
Hindudom in India. But on the contrary will find themselves as non-entities and the Moslems 
alone more profited by those very rights which the Hindus have won and consequently in a 
position to suppress the Hindus with all the greater impact. 

Remember also that a new Round Table Conference or a sort of a Constituent 
Assembly may be called in the near future. So long as the Hindus return as their 
representatives the Congressites alone the Government is bound and justified to look upon 
the Congress to represent the Hindu view, even if the Congress protests against it. And they 
will not recognize the Congress as representing the Moslems or the Nation as a whole even if 
the Congress claims that position; because the Moslems refuse to return any Moslem on the 
Congress ticket as a rule. Even Dr. Kichlu was defeated at the Moslem polls because he 
stood on the Congress ticket. Under such circumstances there is grave and a sure danger of 
further surrender of Hindu rights to Moslem demands which are already claiming equality of 
status even in the Hindu provinces. There will be no use of any protest from the Hindu 
Sanghatanists Party or of the secret bickerings or fulminations of those Hindus in the 
Congress camp itself who personally hate this attitude on the part of the Congress as an 
organization-for, there will be no party with credentials from the Hindu electorate to 


Page 64 of 130 



Hindu Rashtra Darshan 


represent them, who can advocate at the Conference the legitimate Hindu rights as freely 
and boldly and uncompromisingly as the Moslem League representatives can do theirs. 

But if the Hindu electorate does ever come to its senses, refuses to return the 
Congressite candidates and returns only the Hindu Sanghatanists in majority, the Hindus can 
have Hindu Sanghatanists Government in at least seven provinces as the Moslems have in 
the Punjab, Bengal, etc. and the Hindus can capture enough political power so as to be in a 
position to remove at least 75 % of the grievances under which they are groaning now even 
in provinces like U.P. where they form the majority and the Congress ruled. The provincial 
police and the public service will be under the command of Hindu Sanghatanists 
Governments and will not dare to trample on or neglect Hindu rights. Nay, the Moslems of 
themselves, will neither dare to encroach upon Hindu rights nor put forward such intolerable 
anti-Hindu or anti-National demands. As we have no grudge against the Moslem minority in 
so far as their legitimate rights are concerned and as the Hindu Sanghatanists are ever 
willing to live in an honourable friendship and amity with their Moslem countrymen in 
Hindusthan, the Moslem minority too will have every protection in the exercise of its 
legitimate rights. 

Therefore, all our efforts must be intensely concentrated during the next two or three 

years in persuading the Hindu electorate to vote for the Hindu Sanghatanists alone.and 

not to vote for the Congressites in any future elections. This will require a daily press 
devoted to the Hindu Sanghatanists cause and a central Fund. Above all, we shall have to 
form a Hindu /^/-including Sanatanists, Aryasamajists and all such other Hindu bodies, 
sects and sections, who have not as yet any formal connection with the Hindu Mahasabha as 
an organization but are as devoted Hindu Sanghatanists as the Hindusabhaits themselves. 
The ways and means of effecting it all is a matter of detail and ought to be attended to by 
the local, provincial and the central Hindu Mahasabha organizations and above all by all 
Hindu Sanghatanists whether they be formal members of the Hindu Sabha or not. 

But if in spite of our efforts the Hindus electorate persists in its suicidal folly and votes 
for the Congress and we do not secure a majority at the Polls ?-Never mind. Our efforts are 
sure to succeed in securing a minority : as we already find in Maharashtra and some other 
places that Hindu Sanghatanist candidates are not only elected in some hotly contested 
elections against the Congress but in cases have topped the polls. And even the presence of 
a minority of devoted Hindu Sanghatanists in legislatures and local bodies acts as an effective 
check on the waywardness of the majority, gives a tongue unto Hindu grievances and paves 
a way to further progress and power. 

But if we are completely outvoted at the elections and do not secure a single seat ? 
Never mind still. We shall acknowledge the defeat and share the humiliation in general. But 
we can proudly claim for ourselves individually that we did not betray our conscience in spite 
of overwhelming odds. The responsibility of the electorate in general and not on him who 
casts his own vote at any rate on the Hindu side. Moreover the very risk of a contest in 
elections against the Congress on such a righteous issue is bound to compel the Congress to 
be more and more afraid of sacrificing Hindu interests on the altar of the fettish of a pseudo- 
Nationalism. 

To join the National fight when and while the forces are winning, is patriotic enough. 
But when the fight for a righteous cause is almost lost, to persist still in rallying round its 
banner and refuse to betray one's conscience to the last, in spite of a general defeat and 
humiliation,-is simply heroic !, and all that an honest soldier can individually do ! If he 
cannot share the joy of a general victory, nothing can deprive him of the supreme 
satisfaction of having done his duty well. This should be the faith with which the Hindu 
Sanghatanists should continue their contest under the present circumstances. Let us 


Page 65 of 130 




Hindu Rashtra Darshan 


determine, even if the worst comes to the worst, to be the last of the devoted batch of the 
Hindu Sanghatanists than to be the first of the Hindu traitors! 


1.4 22 nd Session Madura - 1940 

Delegates to and Members of the Hindu Mahasabha, 

I really cannot find words adequate enough to express my cordial and grateful 
appreciation of the trust which you have placed in me in electing me this year also, for the 
fourth time in an unbroken succession, to the Presidentship of the Akhil Bharatiya Hindu 
Mahasabha. During the last three years I always felt confident whenever I was called upon 
by you to preside that I would so acquit myself of the responsibility it involved as to justify 
your choice to your own satisfaction as well as to the satisfaction of my own conscience. But 
this year I felt so uneasy when I learnt of my election to the Presidentship for the fourth time 
while I continued bed-ridden owing to a long drawn illness with no speedy recovery in sight 
that I immediately wrote to our esteemed leader Dr.P.Varadarajulu Naidu informing him of 
my intention to resign telegraphically the high office, as I was painfully conscious of my 
inability to discharge its duties with that untiring activity and zeal with which I tried to do it 
throughout my tenure as the President of the Hindu Mahasabha. But Dr. Varadarajulu Naidu 
wired back to me not to take such a step all of a sudden as that would tell disastrously on 
the success of the Session to come. Several of our esteemed leaders and comrades also 
wired to me to the same effect and urged upon me the necessity of accepting the 
Presidentship in the best interest of the Hindu cause. In deference to this public will and 
especially due to my unwillingness to cause any additional worry at the eleventh hour to Dr. 
Varadarajulu Naidu, the band of Hindu Sanghatanist workers and the esteemed Chairman 
and the members of the Reception Committee who had undergone such strenuous efforts to 
hold this first Hindu Mahasabha Session in Tamil Nad, I yielded to the public pressure and 
agreed to preside over this Session at any rate. 

Now, if my health improves, I shall of course set to the work you have entrusted to 
me with unsparing and untiring zeal and effort and try to lead the movement to the best of 
my ability through thick and thin, through sunshine and shower. But if my ailing health 
improves not, instead of playing false to my conscience in sticking to the high post without 
the required strength to discharge its duties as strenuously as it should be done, I should be 
allowed to resign the Presidentship and shift its onerous responsibilities to some stronger 
and worthier shoulders. Of course, it goes without saying that even if I cease to be the 
President of the Mahasabha, I cannot but continue to work and fight as a soldier in your 
ranks who has dedicated his life once and for all to the sacred Hindu cause. 

The Mahasabha Movement marches ahead 
With iong and rapid strides 

It is encouraging to note that the Hindu movement has been advancing with long and 
rapid strides throughout this year under the auspices of the Mahasabha. Even a passing 
reference to some leading items in the report of the work of the Mahasabha during this year 
will be sufficient to bear out this fact. 

Firstly, we have brought this year another great Presidency within the sphere of 
influence of our ideological realm. Only a year ago there was hardly even a district 
Hindusabha worth the name throughout this Madras presidency. With the exception of the 
patriarchal personality of Syt. Vijayaraghavacharior of Salem and a handful of leading men 


Page 66 of 130 



Hindu Rashtra Darshan 


here and there who realised the urgency and importance of the Hindu Sanghatan movement, 
the millions and millions of Hindus in this presidency knew next to nothing about the Hindu 
movement or the Hindu Mahasabha which led it. While that political section amongst the 
Hindus who knew of it, knew it only either to pooh-pooh it or to hate it. But fortunately for 
the Hindu cause, a veteran leader who was thoroughly well versed in conducting mass 
movements and held a high position in the political life of this presidency for decades in the 
past came forward at the beginning of this year to espouse the casue of the Hindu 
Mahasabha and organize the Hindu community under the Hindu flag in this Presidency also. 
He was Dr.P.Varadarajulu Naidu. Very soon a band of enthusiastic pioneers gathered round 
him and several men of position offered their co-operation in the sacred mission. The result 
is that within some ten months' time the whole Presidency of Madras from Trivandrum to 
Rajahmundry has not only become alive to the growing prestige and power of the Hindu 
Mahasabha but millions of Hindus in it have been captivated by the ideology of Hindu 
Sanghatan. Consequently, the Mahasabha has already become a force to be counted within 
the political and social life of this presidency also. 

Nay, further, this Session in the very heart of the Tamil Nad furnishes a visual proof 
of the great Pan-Hindu awakening that has come over the Hindu mind not only the streams 
of all Indian rivers, the Sindhu and Saraswati, the Jamna and Ganga, the Krishna and Kaveri 
that have met in confluence at Madura as they did this morning when waters from all the 
Teerthas were taken out in procession, but it is also the All-India streams of Hindu Life that 
have met here today in a Pan-Hindu confluence. Every pulse that beats in every Hindu 
individual here in this vast concourse is pulsating with the Oneness of our racial, religious, 
political and national being and the Pan-Hindu flag that is waving on this Mandap does but 
symbolise the flame that has set some twenty crores of Hindu hearts aflame with the glad 
tidings that a resurrected Hindu Nation is soon to rise resplendent out of its grave of a self- 
forgetful swoon. 

Another item which deserves to be noted in reviewing this year's work is the 
remarkable increase in the well checked and regularly registered membership of the Hindu 
Mahasabha throughout India. In this connection the Maharashtra Provincial Hindusabha and 
the Bengal Provincial Hindusabha deserve a special mention. Some five years ago the 
Mahasabha counted its members in thousands. This year we are in a position to count them 
in lakhs and if but we all work with unabated and untiring energy for some five years more, 
we shall doubtless be able to count our membership in millions. In the addition to this 
remarkable increase in membership the Hindu Mahasabha organization has also thrown out 
its branches this year in large numbers in places where they did not exist before, Then again 
in addition to the Hindusabhas which are formally affiliated with the Mahasabha there have 
grown up Hindusabha organizations in the States which are for all purposes identical and 
allied with the Hindu Mahasabha organization but which for reasons of policy and 
convenience are not regularly affiliated with it. As prominent amongst these may be 
mentioned :- The Travancore State Hindusabha and the Shuddhisabha; the Kolhapur State 
Hindusabha and the Shuddhisabha; the Bhopal State Hindusabha; the Nizam State Hindu 
Mandal; the Gwalior State Hindusabha; the Cutch-Kathia-war State Hindusabha and such 
others. The majority of these have been started very recently and all of them have recorded 
a commendable progress this year. It is also encouraging to note that the Hindusabhas are 
being organized outside India, too, in Africa, Japan, Trinidad and some other countries. 
Reports show that the Trinidad Hindusabha is making good progress. 

Of the State Hindusabhas the Nizam Hindu Mandal deserves a special attention on 
account of the fact that not only its extensive activities but even its very existence testify to 
the fact how the Nizam Civil Resistance movement had morally and materially strengthened 
the position of the Hindus in that State and how on the whole the civil and religious liberties 
that were denied to them before the Civil Resistance movement began, can now be exercised 


Page 67 of 130 



Hindu Rashtra Darshan 


at least to such extent as to enable the Hindus to forge ahead and gather sufficient strength 
to win further liberties and to get strong enough to defend themselves against the outrages 
of Moslem fanaticism which even today continue to disfigure the State. The Hindu Mandal 
has already established its branches in important centres in the State and is rapidly 
consolidating the Hindus there. The awakening that came over the Hindus in that State 
during the exciting and inspiring days of the Civil Resistance movement has doubtless come 
to stay and has already made the 

Hindus in that State more self confident and mainly enough to defend themselves as has 
been demonstrated in a number of cases this year in which the Hindus counter-attacked and 
brought the Moslem gundas to their knees when the latter took to rioting or looting as they 
were wont to do with impunity in days gone by. There have been some organized and 
outrageous anti-Hindu riots even this year in that State s for example at Nanded wherein the 
very State police and authorities, mostly Moslems, did not hesitate to molest the Hindus;- but 
then such incidents were relatively few this year when compared to the state of things 
prevailing a few years ago. We must also remember that even in the so-called British India 
such fanatical outbursts on the part of the Moslems are not quite unknown. The new factor 
that is to be noted, so far as the State is concerned, is the increasing resistance and even 
the spirit of counter-attacking to checkmate aggression which are being displayed by the 
Hindus in the State in an everincreasing measure. If but this spirit continues to grow and the 
Hindus in the Hyderabad State get consolidated into a Hindu front voting for those 
representatives who are pledged to the Hindu cause they would certainly be able before long 
to bring sufficient pressure on the Nizam Government to yield as many constitutional rights 
to the Hindus in that State as their population strength demands and as the Moslems in the 
Kashmere State have already acquired on the same plea of being a major community. 

The propagandistic activities of the Mahasabha were also carried on, on a more 
extensive scale throughout this year than it could be done in the past. Our grateful thanks 
are specially due in this respect to our veteran leader Dharmaveer Dr. Moonje who in spite 
of his advanced age kept himself constantly on the run from province to province throughout 
the year. Most influential leaders like Sir M.N. Mookerji, Dr. Syama Prasad Mookerji, 
Dharamaveer Bhpatkar, as well as hundreds of provincial leaders and organizers kept 
working night and day with the selfless devotion of a religious missionary or a Tapaswi and 
toured from place to place to propagate the cause. During this year, there were held not 
less than a hundred provincial, district and even taluka conferences; local meetings were held 
in thousands; while cart-loads of Sanghatan literature were being freely distributed from all 
important centres of the Mahasabha organization throughout India. 

in the electoral field also we have secured this year some notable successes which 
proved that at least the intelligent part of the Hindu electorate has unmistakably begun to 
realise that their best interests as Hindus could only be served by voting for the Sanghatanist 
representatives and that it is suicidal for Hindus to vote for a Congress candidate so long as 
he is bound to the Congress ideology. As a case in point, we may mention the hotly 
contested election to the Calcutta Corporation. The Bengal Hindusabha came out with flying 
colours at several polling stations in spite of the fact that it was the first time when Hindu 
Mahasabha openly challenged the long and firmly established monopoly of the Congress at 
the Hindu polls, and the consequence was that the Congress could not form a majority party 
in the corporation on their own ticket. At some other places, as for example in Sindh, 
Mahad, etc. we inflicted almost cent per cent defeat on the Congressites and got a clear 
majority. Of course, it is no wonder that at some places the Hindusabha suffered reverses 
also. But we shall have to start in every election for at least five years to come fully 
prepared to face such electoral reverses. The Hindu electorate cannot so quickly learn to 
unlearn the lesson that has been branded on their mind that its electoral duty consists in 
nothing else but to vote for the Congress with eyes closed, tongues tied and brains held in 
abeyance. Nevertheless, the moral of these reverses also should be carefully noted by us. 


Page 68 of 130 



Hindu Rashtra Darshan 


As an illustration of this let us take Municipal election at Karnavati (Ahmedabad) which took 
place this very month where the Hindusabha lost all the seats it competed for. 

In this case of Karnavati (Ahmedabad) also this was the first time when the Congress 
monopoly was challenged by the Hindu Mahasabha at the polls. The Congress although it 
calls itself 'National' had set up no candidate in Moslem wards. On the election day all the 
Congressites sought only Hindu votes and proclaimed even themselves as Hindus. Their 
nationalism on that day did not fight shy of insisting upon the fact that they were Hindus, an 
act which is branded by them as below their dignity as 'Nationalists' throughout the period till 
the day of any election dawns. The opposition of the Hindu Mahasabha was also so tough 
that it taxed the resources of the Congressite party to its utmost capacity. The arrest of 
patriot Vallabhai Patel was deliberately staged at that city just on the eve of the election and 
after his arrest a message was broadcasted as his last word to the citizens that no voter 
should vote for the Hindu Mahasabha. As if that was the real issue for which patriot Patel 
courted arrest as if not to vote for the Hindu Mahasabha was such a patriotic virtue that it 
should constitute the only theme for the Congress Satyagrahi on which the Hindus required 
to be instructed if India was to be saved. Nevertheless the election campaign served as the 
best occasion for the Hindusabhaits too to preach their ideology to the public and the more 
the Congress grew excited the larger was the audience that attended the Hindusabha 
meetings to know the other side of the question. Some of the meetings addressed by such 
popular Hindu Mahasabha orators as Syt. Chandregupta Vedalankar and Prof. Deshpande 
were more largely attended than any meeting held by the Congress. So at long last came in 
the last argument which the Congressites are wont to use during every election campaign, 
the argument of gundaism. Hindusabha meetings were disturbed and free fights became the 
order of the day. At the polls also Hindusabha voters were molested to cause panic and as 
the crowning rite of the Ahimsak Dharma, the Congressite gundas attacked the Central 
Hindusabha office in the city, on the last day of polling, causing serious bloodshed, injuring a 
number of Hindusabha volunteers so seriously that they had to be removed to the hospital, 
till at last the police stepped in, took the Hindu-sabha office under their protection and kept 
patrolling the street for a day or so even after the elections were over. 

I have referred at some length to this incident because for the Hindusabhaits it has a 
moral of its own. The Congress at present is resorting to Satyagraha in order, as some of 
them say, to vindicate the right of free speech denied by the British Government or as some 
other Congressites say to proclaim the regime of absolute non-violence in the whole world. 
In the light of the above incidents at Karnavati (Ahmedabad) during these very weeks of 
Satyagrah we are tempted to ask, does the Congress want to secure the right of free speech 
from the British for the Congress alone so that they may be left freer to gag the mouth of 
their own countrymen kith and kin? And does that regime of absolute non-violence mean the 
ban on all other lathis and weapons but those which are to be freely used against 
Hindusabha offices and meetings ? And in that case does not linguistic honesty at any rate 
require that this Congress campaign be better styled as 'Asatyagrah' instead of 'Satyagraha' ? 
But whatever reflections we may pass on Congress gundaism in electoral campaigns, we 
must not commit the mistake of attributing the Congress success at the polls to gundaism 
alone. We must remember that a large section of the Hindu electorate itself is likely to 
persist voluntarily and knowingly for some time to come in the suicidal folly of voting for the 
Congress sheerly out of the vicious habit of a long standing. Consequently, without being 
discouraged by reverse as at Karnavati (Ahmedabad) or on the contrary without getting 
cocksure by electoral successes as in Sindh or at Calcutta, Delhi, Mahad and such other 
places, we Hindusabhaits must continue to contest the elections not caring much, for the 
time being for the results. The results in an election generally depend on the folly or the 
wisdom of the electorate and you can never correct the electorate unless you continue to 
contest elections and utilise that opportunity for propagating your principles. Even the most 
powerful parties of today, the Nazis or the Facists or the Bolshevists or the Democrats did 


Page 69 of 130 



Hindu Rashtra Darshan 


not sweep the polls at a bound. They too had to face reverses in their initial stages. If but 
we take cautious steps, study the technique of electoral campaigns at big centres and then 
enter the contest, we are sure even under the present circumstances to secure an influential 
minority in representation to the Legislatures and local bodies and even the presence of a 
minority of devoted Hindu Sanghatanists is sure to act as a check on the Congressite 
majorities, to give a tongue unto Hindu grievances and pave a way to further political power. 
Nay, even if we fail to secure a single seat in an election, even then the contest itself will 
repay the trouble and checkmate the Congressite waywardness. The consciousness that it is 
not a walkover now in winning seats as it used to be, will force the Congressites to prove to 
the Hindu electorate that they too do not disregard Hindu interests as the Hindu 
Sanghatanists rival candidates in the elections allege and will make the Congressites more 
and more afraid of sacrificing Hindu interests to the fettish of their Pseudo-Nationalism. If 
the Hindu party persists in contesting elections, a day will come when the Congressite Hindus 
shall have to go to the polls with a conspicuous 'Gandham' be smeared on their foreheads 
and the Tulsi' rosari in their hands to prove to the Hindu electorate that it was they, the 
Congressites, who were Hindus of a purer ray serene than the Hindu Sanghatanist heretics. 

That is why I take this opportunity of rendering special thanks to the Hindusabha of 
Karnavati (Ahmedabad) for having contested so toughly in spite of all odds instead of playing 
false to their conscience and let go the election uncontested for fear of defeat. They have 
done their duty well. It is that part of the Hindu electorate which voted for the Congress 
which is responsible for betraying Hindu interests and will soon pay the bill. Curiously 
enough the very election week at Karnavati (Ahmedabad) demonstrated the fact how this bill 
will have to be paid and how Hindus will be made to suffer humiliation at the hands of the 
Congressites. It is a straw but it shows how the wind blows. In a big educational institution 
at Karnavati (Ahmedabad) wherein there are some eleven hundred Hindu students and some 
eighty Moslem students, there was a programme wherein only the first stanza of 'Vande 
Mataram' which was certified by the Congress itself as quite harmless even from its timid 
point of view was to be sung. But the Moslem students objected to that too, to the song 
itself. The school authorities took out of their file a circular which was issued when the 
Congress was in power and which laid it down that the 'Vande Mataram' song or any part of 
it should not be sung if the Moslems objected and in accordance with it the song was 
altogether omitted from the programme to the great resentment of the Hindu students. 
Thus the sentiments of eighty (80) Moslem students weighed more than and outvoted the 
sentiments of eleven hundred (1100) Hindu students. This is Congress Democracy ! 

The Hindu Mahasabha has been doing all it can 
to defend the Hindu casue in Sindh 

While we are passing the last year's report of the Hindu movement, under review, of 
all the Hindusabhas the Sindh Provincial Hindusabha and in fact the Sanghatanist party in 
general in Sindh including the Hindu Panchayats and Dharma Sabhas there, must be specially 
congratulated upon the unflinching devotion to their Dharma with which they faced daily 
myrtyrdom throughout this year during the latest rising of the murderous Moslem fanatics, in 
Sindh. You all know how keenly we feel our helplessness in extending more efficient help to 
our Sindh brothers than we could do. But it may safely be stated that short of armed 
retaliation the Hindu Mahasabha or rather the Hindu Sanghatanist party in general has been 
doing all that could be done under the circumstances to safeguard and defend the Hindu 
cause in Sindh. Only a couple of years ago I had been to Hyderabad, Karachi, Sukkur, 
Shikarpur, Rohri and studied the situation on the spot and presided over the Hindu 
Conference at Sukkur held under the auspices of the Sindh Provincial Hindusabha. It was at 
that conference that the Hindus determined definitely to oppose the Moslem aggression on 
the Manzalgah to formulate their grievances and to form a Hindu front which would oppose 
tooth and nail any attempt on the part of the Congress to sacrifice the Hindu interests in 


Page 70 of 130 



Hindu Rashtra Darshan 


Sindh by handing over the province entirely to Moslem domination. The Provincial 
Hindusabha organization war overhauled and the Sanatan Sabhas, the Sikhs, the Arya-samaj 
and other Hindu Sanghatanist parties were persuaded to work hand in hand and merge 
themselves into a common Hindu front. Thereupon the Sindh Provincial Hindusabha 
repudiated openly the pretensions of the Congress party to represent the Hindus and began 
to contest elections on Hindu tickets to Legislatures and local bodies. At several places they 
succeeded in inflicting defeats on the Congress candidates and today representatives of the 
Hindu Sanghatanist party form so influential a minority in the provincial legislatures and 
some of the local bodies as to be able very often to hold the balance so as to influence the 
formation of the Moslem Ministries themselves. In addition to that, there are two to three 
Hindu Ministers in the Ministry itself who are pledged to the Hindu ticket. When the Hindus 
were getting thus more and more consolidated and their opposition to the Manzalgah 
question grew serious, the Moslems broke out in open riots here and there and the Hindu life 
and property were seriously threatened. Even then the Congressite party did not dare to 
take up the cause of the Hindu minority in hand and the All India Congress took no notice 
whatsoever of the violent campaign which the Moslems who were in overwhelming majority 
in that province had set on foot to clear out at any rate some districts of Sindh of Hindu 
population and render Sindh a veritable Pakistan. When the position in Sindh grew so 
serious and the Moslem Parties fighting with each other could form no stable Government Dr. 
Moonje Mahashay paid a visit to that province on the eve of this year and presided over the 
second Hindu Conference at Sukkur. The Hindus once more declared their firm 
determination to defend their rights and not to sign voluntarily any humiliating surrender not 
only in connection with the Manzalgah affair but in case of any question which touched Hindu 
honour. The Hindu Sanghatanist discarded the Congressite advice of evacuating Sindh 
altogether. They were and are determined to defend their ancient hearths and homes and 
keep the flag of Hindudom flying on the banks of the Indus even though and so long as the 
Hindus continue to be in the minority of one I just a couple of days after this conference, the 
Sukkur riots broke out as the Moslems were driven out of the Manzalgah under Hindu 
pressure and the murderous Moslem rising spread from village to village. The Sindh 
Provincial Hindusabhaits taking their own lives in the hollow of their hands strained every 
nerve to defend the Hindus as best as they could. Hindusabhaits, the leaders and the 
followers were prosecuted, persecuted, externed, interned, stabbed, threatened and had to 
work every hour at the imminent risk of their life. Still on the whole they stood bravely by 
their posts and short of an armed retaliation did everything to oppose and quell the Moslem 
rising and to succour and relieve the Hindus. The Hindusabhas in other provinces also 
extended every sympathy to their co-religionists in Sindh. There had been hundreds of 
meetings all over Inida held by the Hindusabhas. Resolutions were passed, funds were 
raised and sent to relieve the Hindu sufferers. Deputations were sent and representations 
made to the Government. I myself urged upon the Viceroy and the Governor of Sindh that 
the Moslem Ministry and the Provincial Autonomy should be scrapped, that the Governor 
himself should take over the administration in his hands to begin with and later on the 
Government re-annex Sindh to the Bombay Presidency. I put it to the Viceroy in writing, 
'Had so many Europeans, men and women, been butchered or outraged in Sindh as has 
been the case with the Hinuds would the Government have looked on with folded hands as 
they are doing now ? Would they not have raised to the ground the villages and resorts of 
murderous Moslem conspirators as an act of just reprisals ?' It is amusing to see that some 
people from time to time should question, why the 

Hindu Mahasabha does not publish a full report of the Moslem atrocities in Sindh ? The fact 
is that the Sindh Hindusabha, the very men on the spot have held investigations from time to 
time and published regular reports with names, statements, amount of loss of the Hindu 
sufferers. A couple of the reports had even been proscribed by the Governments. The 
Hindu Sanghatanist press had to furnish security for printing that. Almost all Hindu 
Sanghatanist papers in India have printed all those details again and again. In fact it is only 
due to the Hindu Mahasabha activities and the Hindu Sanghatanist press that the 


Page 71 of 130 



Hindu Rashtra Darshan 


grievances and calamities of the Hindus in Sindh could at all be known all over India. 
Moreover, it is only due to the pressure which the Hindu Mahasabhaits brought to bear on 
the Government that the Governor had at last forced the hands of the Moslem Ministry and 
took such stringent steps that at least some of the leading mischief-makers were brought to 
book, some effective protection afforded to the Hindus in the villages, some terror struck in 
the hearts of the malefactors and consequently there could be at least a temporary lull in the 
anti-Hindu activities of the Moslem fanatics in Sindh. In view of the above fact, I feel no 
hesitation in stating again that the Hindu Mahasabha through its provincial and local 
branches and with the help of the Hindu Sanghatanist public in general all over India 
have done whatever it could do under the circumstances to extend relief to the Hindu 
sufferers in Sindh short of armed reprisals or retaliation. But the latter means cannot fall 
within the sphere of our discussion here as here we must concern ourselves only with a 
legitimate and constitutional means. We wish we could do more than what is done and if the 
situation in Sindh does not improve soon more stringent steps shall be taken as 
circumstances permit. 

It is the Congress which is primarily responsible for 
the calamities which have befallen the 
Hindus in Sindh 

When we find that in spite of all these facts it is precisely the Congressites who 
accuse the Hindu Mahasabha for having done nothing for, the Hindus in Sindh that the 
necessity arises of reminding the Congressites that , was it not the Congress which insisted 
on and brought about the separation of Sindh from the Bombay Presidency ? And was not 
that the original sin ? The Hindu Mahasabha fought tooth and nail against the separation of 
Sindh warning the Congressite Hindus that such a step would only lead to untold miseries of 
the Hindus : that it was a part of the Moslem conspiracy to separate Sindh so as to lay the 
foundation-stone of their pet Pakistan scheme : that wild, fanatical and murderous gangs of 
Moslems who always prowled about the borders of Sindh would pounce upon the Hindu 
minority and even the most polished Moslems throughout India would not raise a finger to 
save the latter but would wait for the moment when the Hindus were either wiped off or 
evacuate Sindh en masse leaving it a pure Dar-ul-lslam a Moslem territory. But in spite of 
this opposition of the Mahasabha the Congressite Hindus voted for the separation of Sindh 
just to please the Moslems ! And now it is the Congressites who are demanding from the 
Hindu Mahasabha the explanation of what it was doing for the Hindus in Sindh !! The 
incendiary who first set the village on fire is now demanding from the citizens an explanation 
of the fact why they could not exert themselves more in putting down the fire ! The Working 
Committee of the Congress, while everyday brought harrowing news of anti-Hindu outrages 
in Sindh did not utter a single word in condemnation of it. Nor was a single meeting held 
throughout India by the Congress to protest against it. It was only when the Hindu 
Mahasabha activities brought sufficient pressure upon the Government to take stringent 
measures and pressed the Government to scrap up the Moslem Autonomy that Maulana Azad 
was hurriedly dispatched by Gandhiji to Sindh. But with what leading objectives in view ? 

But Maulana Azad's Mission was not so much to 
Safeguard the Hindus as to stabilise the 
Moslem Ministry 

He did not formulate any scheme to recompense of safeguard the Hindus nor did he 
issue any condemnation or frame any charge-sheet of the Moslem atrocities. His whole 
anxiety under Gandhiji's instructions was to exhort the Moslems to form a stable Government 
so as not to give any excuse to the Hindu Mahasabha to force the hands of the Government 
to re-annex Sindh to Bombay or empower the Governor to resume the administration in his 
own hands. If the Moslems fail to form a stable Government in Sindh how were they going 


Page 72 of 130 



Hindu Rashtra Darshan 


to prove to the British Government that they would be able to rule their would-be Pakistan 
as efficiently as the British ? That seemed to be the anxiety which drove Maulana Azad to 
Sindh. For, one fails to understand how a stable Government of those very Moslem parties 
who have been responsible for the plight of the Hindus upto this time could improve the 
condition and safeguard the life and property of the Hindu minority there. A stable 
Government of these Moslem parties may as well prove more dangerous to the Hindus than 
otherwise. The temporary cessation of crime in Sindh is the result of the direct pressure 
exercised by the Governor and the consequent hunt of the Moslem criminals which had 
already been initiated before Maulana Azad stepped into Sindh. Not a stable Moslem Ministry 
or any other measure serving only as an eye-wash can ever be an effective way of protecting 
the legitimate rights of the Hindu minority in Sindh or ensure peace and order. The annulling 
of the Moslem autonomy in Sindh and the re-annexation of it to the presidency of Bombay 
can alone secure that objective. 

The Pan-Hindu movement animates the 
Hindu Princes too 

It is encouraging to note another factor, while we are reviewing this year's work, that 
a lively interest is being evinced by the Hindu Princes in the Mahasabha activities. The Pan- 
Hindu ideology was sure to stir up, sooner or later, the ,latent fire in the blood of our historic 
forefathers which flows in the veins of our Hindu Princes and make them realize that their 
duty required them not only to sympathize with but to lead the Hindu movement. The far¬ 
sighted amongst them have begun to realise that their present and future interests as well 
are, in fact, identified with the Pan-Hindu movement now growing stronger from day to day. 
If, upto this time, the Hindu Princes failed to lead the Hindu movement or help it with that 
fervour, courage and religious devotion with which the Moslem Princes in India identify 
themselves with the Moslem political parties in India and share in the Pan-lslamic ambition, 
the fault does not altogether lie on the side of the Hindu Princes alone. The Hindu public, in 
general, and notably the Congressite Hindus, in particular, never extended any the least 
sympathy with the Hindu States or realised their importance; but on the contrary, arrogated 
to themselves the monopoly of patriotism and looked down on the Hindu States as an 
impediment in the path of India's progress, which, the sooner it was removed, the better it 
would be for the Nation. But the Moslem public, on the other hand with a truer insight into 
political realities had ever been intensely proud of the few Moslem States in India, looked 
upon them as organized centres of Moslem strength and even tried to augment the power 
and prestige of their Nizams and Nababs. Consequently, the Moslem Princes too ever felt 
that not only their present interests but even their future greatness and future glory 
depended on the progress and strength of the Pan-lslamic movement, led by the Moslem 
politicians in India. If but the Hindu Sanghatanists possess an insight into political realities 
they would soon find that the Hindu States are, in fact, nearly the only centres of the 
organized, military, administrative and political Hindu strength and are bound to play a more 
active and more decisive part in the near future in moulding the destiny of the Hindu Nation 
than any other factor within our present reach. Even as it is, what party of our chatter-box 
politicians and slogan-ridden ideologues had succeeded in effecting actually social or 
industrial or military progress on such an extent as, say for example, the Hindu States of 
Baroda, Mysore, Travancore or Gwalior have recorded ? For want of space and inclination, I 
do not deal with this question here at any greater length. All that I like to emphasize here 
and want the Hindu Sanghatanist throughout India to note is the fact that they should 
welcome the response which the Pan-Hindu ideology is evoking in the hearts of our Hindu 
Princes and to realise that the stronger the Hindu States grow, the lesser will be the danger 
of any anti-Hindu aggression in any problematical danger of internal anarchy and anti-Hindu 
aggression. Of all the factors that the likely, under the present circumstances, to contribute 
to the resurgence and rejuvenation of a consolidated Hindu Nation, the Hindu States 
constitute the most efficient one. 


Page 73 of 130 



Hindu Rashtra Darshan 


The Moslem with only two or three important Moslem States to depend upon, are 
hopeful enough, -and in the absence of any countercheck on the part of the Hindus are 
rightly hopeful of utilising the organized Moslem power in those States as a pivot for their 
plans of Moslem domination. But we Hindus have never taken it into our head what 
powerful resources we have in the existence of some fifty Hindu States with armies, 
organized police forces, treasuries, governmental machineries all relatively at least as 
efficient as the Moslem States have and some of them as large as independent countries in 
Europe. When we hear that the Khaksars and the Frontier Pathans are plotting to rally round 
the banner of the Nizam and raise him to the pedestal of an independent Moslem King, we 
are startled, get overawed and are at a loss to know how to meet this impending danger. 
But it never occurs to us that while the Moslems are building castles in the air for their 
independent Nizam to lodge, there is already in fact an independent Hindu Kingdom of Nepal 
with a hundred thousand seasoned Hindu soldiers shouldering up-to-date rifles in defence of 
the Hindu cause ! 

it is not want of resources, Oh Hindus, which forces you to be so helpless and 
hopeless but it is the want of practical insight in political realities to know your resources; 
and the tact to use them. You have lost the political eye altogether. Think of the fact that 
thousands of Congressite Hindus are openly maintaining that the Nepali Hindus are 
foreigners to us, Indians, while at the same time, they are simply dying to hug the Moslem 
Pathans even from beyond the Frontier as Indian Nationals and it is only the other day that 
Gandhiji himself stated that if the Nizam became an independent Emperor of India even with 
the help of the Pathans from beyond the Frontier, that rule would be a cent per cent 'Home 
Rule', a cent per cent 'Swarajya'. So then, even the help of the Moslem Pathans from 
beyond does not vitiate the Congress Nationalism. But the help of the Hindu Gurkhas vitiates 
it;- the Gurkhas who are the direct descendants of Rajputs and went to Nepal only some 
three centuries ago ! It is this political lunacy which has affected the Congressite Hindu mind 
that constitutes the real cause of our present helplessness and the only cure lies in the Pan- 
Hindu ideology which will at once give the correct orientation to all our movements and revel 
to us what inexhaustible resources lie even now at our disposal and make you realise that 
organized power of the Hindu States constitutes the most effective and powerful of them. 
Hence it is that I lay so much store by that factor and am glad to note that some of the 
Hindu Princes also have come to realise that not only their duty but even their interests 
demand that the Hindu movement in general should grow from strength to strength. If 
Hindudom is uprooted the Hindu States also must fall down and wither as inevitably as the 
limbs of a body that ceases to live. 

The Hindu Mahasabha captures the political stage 

It was but a matter of course that the progress which the Hindu Mahasabha had 
recorded in its activities as detailed out above and the rapid strides with which the Hindu 
movement forged ahead throughout the last two years should have impressed the Indian as 
well as the British Government too to some extent or the other. It cannot be denied that the 
unequivocal recognition by the Government this year of the Hindu Mahasabha as the 
political power which must be consulted on a footing of equality with the Congress and the 
League in matters affecting all-India politics constitutes the outstanding event in the history 
of the Hindu Mahasabha movement. Upon this time, the Congress and the League were 
looked upon by the Government as the only two representative bodies, whose opinion was 
tantamount to Indian opinion. The Government seem to have framed an equation and learnt 
it by heart that the Congress and the League was equal to Indis as a whole. Of these two, 
the League was rightly taken to express the Moslem opinion in general. Because the Leauge 
openly avows that it is there to safeguard and promote the Moslem interests. But the 
Government seem to have taken the Congress to represent the Hindu opinion only because 


Page 74 of 130 



Hindu Rashtra Darshan 


out of the two bodies, the Congress and the League, which to the Government thought 
represented the sum total of Indian opinion, that is, the opinion of Hindus and Moslems, if 
the League represented the Moslem opinion then the Congress must of necessity be taken to 
represent the Hindu opinion and interests. Although the Congress itself openly resented the 
charge that they represented Hindus and proved their contention to the hilt by actually 
betraying Hindu interests a hundred times over, as for example, in the question of Sindh 
separation, the Communal Award, the Frontier policy, the Hindusthani Language, etc., etc. 
still the Government persisted in believing that the Congress and the League were equivalent 
as a sum total of Hindu-Moslem representation. Thus, the Hindu view continued to be 
ascertained by the Government through the opinion of that very body which indignantly 
repudiated the advocacy of the Hindu cause. Consequently, the Hindus as Hindus not only 
continued to be unrepresented but were positively misrepresented in all Government 
Constitutional deliberations, All-India Round Table Conferences, etc., etc. But the growing 
prestige, influence and effective activities of the Hindu Mahasabha did at last impress the 
Government with the fact that it was no longer possible to look upon the Congress as a 
representative Hindu body or to refuse to recognise the Hindu Mahasabha as the real 
representative Hindu body and as such the third indispensable political factor which must be 
taken into consideration in gauging the Indian opinion in its entirety. The Indian 
Government have thus unlearnt the old equation, 'Congress + League = Indian people' and 
had to learn the new equation, The Hindu Mahasabha, the League and the Congress = the 
sum of total of Indian representation'. This new equation does really respond to the present 
political situation in India and I thank H.E. the Viceroy for having deliberately and decisively 
recognised the position of the Hindu Mahasabha as, at any rate, the most outstanding 
representative Hindu body, if not the only one. The Moslem League represents the Moslem 
interests, the Hindu Mahasabha the Hindu interests and the Congress,-even if it is in majority 
today represents none else but a hotch-potch political party, of the Congressite persuasion. 
But although the Indian Government have grasped this situation quite definitely, yet it seems 
that the British Government has not yet been able to learn the new equation or realise its full 
import; that is why the Secretary of State for India does still repeat the old phrase, the 
Congress and the League or the League and the Congress to express the sum total of the 
Indian public and when, of late, he did try to use the corrected version and in his speech in 
the Parliament last November, did use the new equation The Congress, the League and the 
Hindu Mahasabha' he created an unconscious humour by trying to enlighten his 
Parliamentary audience by acquainting them with what this new stranger Hindu Mahasabha 
actually meant. The Secretary of State knew it that the League represented the Moslems 
and the Congress represented the Hindus and so very naturally was at a loss to explain to 
himself and to others whom this Hindu Mahasabha could represent ! So the nearest 
explanation, he very naturally found, was to the effect that the Congress represented the 
Reformed Hindus in general and the Hindu Mahasabha must consequently be 'a body of the 
orthodox Hindus in particular' and he introduced the Hindu Mahasabha for the first time to 
the British Parliament as The Orthodox Hindu body'. Mr. Amery will himself feel amused if 
he learns that the very President of the Hindu Mahasabha for the last three years has been a 
notorious Reformer who,being a born Brahmin, interdines freely with the so-called 
untouchables in his individual capacity. The second time when Mr. Amery made a reference 
to the Hindu Mahasabha in a speech this month advocating the principle 'India first' he 
referred to it correctly. It is also our duty, to some extent, to acquaint the British public with 
the true nature and ideology of the Hindu Mahasabha movement by establishing a well- 
organized and permanent centre of Hindu propaganda in London. The British public as well 
as the Government must be made to realise that the Hindu Mahasabha is neither Orthodox 
nor Heterodox. In fact, it has very little to do with any 'Doxy' at all. It is not primarily a 
Hindu Dharma Sabha, a religious body. The Hindu Mahasabha is the Hindu Rashtra Sabha, a 
body aiming to represent the Hindu Nation as a whole and includes all sections of Hindudom 
whether Orthodox or Heterodox. 


Page 75 of 130 



Hindu Rashtra Darshan 


This recognition by the Government of the Hindu Mahasabha as the most outstanding 
representative of the Hindu view and the consequent consultations which the Viceroy held 
with its President, is an event which is certain to have far-reaching consequences on the 
Hindu movement in general. Because it implies the recognition by the Government of the 
fact that the Congress does not represent the Hindus as Hindus and that just as to ascertain 
the Moslem opinion they have to consult the Moslem League or any other such Moslem 
institution which is independent of the Congress, so also the real Hindu interests, rights and 
claims could only be ascertained by consulting a representative Hindu body which is 
independent of and apart from the Congress. Once this principle is admitted as now it is 
done by the Government itself and Hindudom shakes of the grip that the Congress has 
tightened round its neck in virtue of no other right but that of an unchallenged usage, the 
political, social, religious and cultural interests of the Hindus as Hindus could no longer be 
betrayed by the Congress or go undefended by default. Henceforth in any conference 
whether a Round Table one or all parties one or a Constituent one that is called to determine 
constitutional questions regarding India as a whole, the Hindu Mahasabha is bound to be a 
party to it on an equal footing with the League and the Congress and unless and until this 
representative body of the Hindus does not sanction any step taken affecting Hindu interests 
the consent of the Congress alone can never be taken as the consent of Hindudom and can 
never be binding on the Hindus. Any Congress-League pact can no longer sell, mortgage or 
barter away Hindu rights unless and until the Hindu Mahasabha is a willing party to it. 

It is to be noted in this connection that we must admit and emphasize in our own 
interests that the Indian as well as the British Government have not only recognised the right 
of the Hindu Mahasabha to represent the Hindu view independently of the Congress but has 
tried to meet the wishes of the Mahasabha, at least on one of the vital points affecting the 
Hindu interests. It cannot be gainsaid that the important speech which the Secretary of 
State delivered this month dealing with the question of the political and National integrity of 
India was chiefly the result of the pressure brought to bear by the Hindu Mahasabha and the 
Sikh organizations on the Government to declare in unambiguous accents that the British 
Government, at any rate, did not encourage or even contribute tacitly to the mischievous 
Moslem movement to vivisect the integrity of the Indian Nation, country and State as the 
Pakistan proposal demanded. The Moslem League had of course Godfathered the Pakistan 
scheme. The Congressite leaders of note, including all their Rajajis and Pradhanjis, had 
made it clear that they would not oppose it if the Moslems insisted on it. In fact, the 
Congressite Hindus had expressed their acquiescence in the Pakistan proposal with such an 
unabashed haste and obsequiousness as were never evinced by the British people or 
Government even though they at first did not like to veto it altogether. Even Mr. Amery in 
his speech only a month ago did not deliberately say anything to discourage the Moslems 
and had said many things to encourate them tacitly in connection with their proposal to 
divide India into Hindu and Moslem Zones. Whence came then the pressure under which the 
Secretary of State thought it better to positively lay it down that the integrity of India must 
be inviolate in the interests of all and formed the first principle on which alone any solution of 
the Indian constitutional framing can be grafted ? It was due to the Hindu Mahasabha, the 
Sikh organizations, the Sanatani Mandals, etc.-in short to the Hindu Sanghatanist party alone 
which agitated against the Pakistan scheme and demanded that the Government should 
make a clear declaration washing their hands clean of the Pakistan proposal. The Congress 
had of course uttered no word in the resolutions either of its Session or Working Committees 
against the Pakistan scheme. But the Hindu Mahasabha had emphatically made it a 
condition for its participation in the war efforts that the Government should declare its 
intention to stand by the indivisibility and integrity of the Indian Nation and the Indian State. 
Of course it must have been in response to this demand of the Hindu Mahasabha and the 
Hindu Sanghatanist party in general that Mr. Amery had to change his ambiguous and 
dubious attitude which he had taken in his speech in November when he addressed the 
Parliament and to make this relatively very clear declaration in his speech this month 


Page 76 of 130 



Hindu Rashtra Darshan 


preaching almost a religious sermon on 'India first.' In any case I have no hesistation in 
expressing my sincere appreciation of the dear attitude which Mr. Amery has taken on the 
question of Indian integrity and indivisibility as well as of the firmness with which the Viceroy 
turned down a number of the anti-Hindu and aggressive demands which the League had 
advanced during the recent negotiations in connection with the war committee and the 
extension of the Executive Council. That also could not but be the result of the negotiations 
carried on, on behalf of and the most legitimate and reasoned-out attitude taken up by the 
Mahasabha in opposing those aggressive Moslem demands. The Congress had said nothing 
to denounce them and but for the opposition of the Hindu Mahasabha, in all probabilities the 
Moslems could have secured a very large portion of the ground which they aggressively 
claimed to be their own. 

The Hindus must get themselves cured of the malady 
of voting for the Congress at the polls if they want 
to safeguard their rights 

Nevertheless, I must again categorically warn the Hindus that in spite of the fact that 
the Hindu Mahasabha has succeeded this year in capturing the political stage and stands 
there today on equal footing with the Congress and the League as the most outstanding 
representative of the Hindus, it would not be able to safeguard and promote Hindu interests 
to the fullest extent unless and until the Hindu electorate empowers it beyond cavil or 
criticism to function as the party in majority in the legislatures returned by the Hindu 
electorate on a Hindu ticket. So long as the Hindu electorate persists in the habitual act of 
political lunacy of voting for the Congress tickets the Government cannot but accept the 
Congress to a very large extent as representing Hindu opinion. But the Congress constituted 
as it is will never and can never represent even the legitimate Hindu interests so boldly and 
with such whole-hearted devotion to the Hindu cause as the Hindu representatives, who are 
definitely pledged to the Hindu ticket, can do. If but the Hindu electorate returns the Hindu 
Sanghatanist candidates in an overwhelming majority at the polls to represent the Hindu 
cause to the legislatures and the local bodies, the Government shall have to recognise the 
Hindu Mahasabha or any consolidated Hindu Sanghatanist party as the only representative 
of the Hindus without any further necessity of endless arguments. The Congress will 
automatically get deprived of any claim or power to play ducks and drakes with Hindu 
interests or even to speak in the name of the Hindus as Hindus. I n fact, it can hardly have a 
chance of representing any part of the electorates at all so long as they are communally 
grouped which arrangement is inevitably certain to continue for at least a score of years to 
come. The Moslems will never elect a Moslem who is not pledged to a purely Moslem 
organization and in particular are sure to reject a Moslem who stands on a Congress ticket. 
Their interests, therefore, will never be jeopardised. If the Hindus also elect only those 
Hindus who are pledged to a Hindu ticket, there will be no electorate left worth the name to 
vote for the Congress ticket. Even as it is the Congress Ministries and majority stand on the 
shoulder of the Hindu electorate alone. 

A large section of the Congressite Hindus is also getting 
anxious of late to see the Hindu Mahasabha grow 
into the strongest political organization in India 

Throughout this year hundreds of Hindu Congressites of note have personally 
congratulated me as the President of the Hindu Mahasabha on the fact that the Mahasabha 
should have been able to influence the Government in several details some of which are 
indicated above, and made them think twice before they allowed themselves to play into the 
hands of the Moslem League and at times to turn down their aggressively anti-Hindu 
demands. Why these Congressite gentlemen, who are Hindus to the core, denounce in their 
heart of hearts the constant betrayal by the Congress of Hindu interests and feel thankful 


Page 77 of 130 



Hindu Rashtra Darshan 


that the Hindu Mahasabha should have grown strong enough to checkmate this Congress 
policy, do nevertheless continue to be under the thumb of the Congress and do not forthwith 
join the Hindu Mahasabha and add the weight of their influence and efforts to it,-is a 
question which must naturally rise in your mind. I may tell you that the only obstacle which 
stops them, at present, from leaving the Congress camp and going over to the Hindu 
Mahasabha fold is a wall, which though it is but an inch in height, proves still most 
effectively insurmountable to them. This inch-high but to them an insurmountable wall is but 
the Congress ticket !-which affords them the the guarantee of being elected at any polls 
whether to the local bodies or the legislatures or assures them of some post or profit here or 
there. This again emphasizes the fact that if but the Hindu electorate is cured of the suicidal 
malady, grown into a habit with them, of voting blindly for the Congress ticket at the poll and 
realises that its interests demand its voting for the Hindu ticket, thousands of these our 
halting and hesitating Hindu brothers, who are now in the Congress, would pick up the 
courage of joining openly the ranks of the Hindu Mahasabha and leave the Congress,-a step 
which they feel it their duty to take but which their interests forbid them to take at a stroke. 
Of course, I should appeal to the conscience of thousands of these of our Hindu brothers 
that they themselves should set the example of placing their duty towards their racial, 
religious and national Being as Hindus far, far above the wretched consideration of self, 
power or popularity. Whatever be the result of this my appeal I cannot but thank this large 
number of our Hindu brothers who have this year come to sympathise with the Hindu 
Mahasabha and are now willing to extend whatever help they can render to increase its 
prestige and power in spite of their continuing in the Congress camp. Well begun is half 
done. 


Thus it will be clear from the passing review of some of the leading events during the 
last year in connection with the Hindu Mahasabha movement and some of the details of its 
work during the last year, that on the whole the Hindu movement is forging ahead. But 
while we should know precisely where our strength lies and the point to which we have been 
able to progress we should also never lose sight of the defects and deficiencies we have yet 
to face. But in spite of this dictum, I have not delibertely made much of these defects and 
deficiencies and sad plight in which we Hindus find ourselves enmeshed on all sides for the 
simple reason that the dark side of the situation has been so patent and so persistently 
dinned into our ears even to the point of unbearable exaggeration by friends and foes alike 
that the Hindus have already come to suffer from an almost incurable inferiority complex. 
Therefore, for the time being our motto should rather be thus that- 


l/l/e should neither underrate our progress and strength 
nor should we exaggerate our weakness 

We should surely face our difficulties, organizational deificencies, selfishness, want of 
cohesion and even of capacity of which we are already keenly conscious and staring them full 
in the face, shall try our best to overcome them can only come from the correct estimation of 
those factors which are in our facour, of our real assets and resources which also are 
fortunately inexhaustible though as yet unrealised and untapped. That is why I have dealt 
with these latter in particular and placed them in bold relief. 

Every Hindu must study at least the following books 
to know the real springs of the Pan-Hindu movement 

Before I proceed to deal with other important points after closing this passing review 
of the last year's report, I feel it my duty to exhort my Hindu brethren in general and those 
belonging to this Madras presidency in particular, to study at least the following books before 
they form any opinion regarding the Pan-Sanghatan movement. The ideology of Hindu 


Page 78 of 130 



Hindu Rashtra Darshan 


Sanghatan is now fortunately propagated on scale wide enough in Maharashtra, Bengal and 
some provinces in the North, to enable the Hindus there to understand and appraise correctly 
much that I have said in the foregoing part of my address. But the Madras presidency has 
only recently come into contact with the Sanghatan movement. Consequently, a study of the 
fundamental principles and ideology on which the movement is based is an imperative 
necessity especially in the case of all those Hindus belonging to this presidency who wish to 
see the Sanghatan movement strongly entrenched in the South as well and also in the case 
of those, too, who though they have not yet enlisted on its side, yet wish to assess it as a 
powerful current of political thought and activity which is bound to affect the future history 
of India whether one likes it or not. With that end in view I recommend to all Hindus, even 
at the risk of a personal reference, the study of the following books to begin with 

(1) 'Hindutva' by V.D. Savarkar. (2) 'Hindu Sanghatan' (its ideology and immediate 
programme) published by Syt. N.V. Damle. (3) 'History of the Hindu Mahasabha' by Syt. 
Indraprakash. (4) 'Hindu-Pad-Padashahi' by V.D. Savarkar. (5) 'History of the Bhaganagar 
Struggle' (Nizam Civil Resistance Movement) by Syt. S. R. Date. 

Other important topics will be dealt with in separate 
resolution to be passed at this session 

Want of space and time compels me now to leave even some pressing questions such 
as the grievances of our Hindu brethren in Bengal, the Pakistan scheme, the Census, etc., 
etc. to be dealt with in the separate resolutions which are to be taken up by this Session, 
especially in view of the fact that they will be better discussed and decided by those leaders 
who, having made a special study of them are intimately acquainted with the details in 
connection with them, and to proceed to deal with the foremost of topical questions : of how 
best we can respond to the war situation under the circumstances we are placed in : what 
should be our immediate policy and programme under the war conditions, so as to enable us 
to safeguard and even promote Hindu interests. 

I want to make it clear before I deal with this question that the views, I shall express 
in connection with it, should be looked upon as my personal views even though I happen to 
express them from the Presidential chair. The delegates to this Session should not take 
those views as any authoritative announcements or recommendations, much less, as any 
dictation from their President. Although the President of such an organization as the 
Mahasabha is expected to recommend and at times even to dictate the policy or programme 
to be adopted and in general to lead the Assembly he presides over, still the outstanding 
function of such a President is, unless otherwise provided for, to act as the highest executive 
officer responsible to carry out the corporate decisions of the delegates and representatives 
composing the deliberative body of that organization. With this conception of my duty as the 
President, I shall ever try my humble best to carry out your corporate decisions especially on 
this question even though they may differ widely from the views I personally hold and 
express and shall never look upon this difference as in any way involving the question of the 
Presidential prestige; and my sincere request to you all is also to the same effect that you 
should consider the views I express on this question as the views of one of the members 
rather than the views of the President of the Hindu Mahasabha. 

The war situation and what should be our immediate 
policy and programme in response to it 

Before I frame an actual programme I wish to draw your attention to some of the 
leading considerations which seem to me as best calculated to clear our vision and help to 
chalk out our line of action in this respect 


Page 79 of 130 



Hindu Rashtra Darshan 


(a) The first point to be noted is the fact that we are in no way morally bound to help 
any of the belligerents in this worldwide war whether it be England or Germany or J apan or 
Russia or China or any other country involved in the war, from only altruistic point of view as 
has been demanded from us not only by Great Britain and America but curiously enough by 
some of the Congressite leaders themselves and some other sections of the Indian public. 
The Hindu Mahasabha has already made its position clear on this point in a resolution passed 
by its Working Committee in September 1939, just within a month after the breaking out of 
the war, when Gandhiji, the de facto dictator of the Congress, was proclaiming in a flattering 
mood to the effect that he was not thinking of Indian independence then but was chiefly 
concerned with the safety of England and France and proposed to offer them unconditional 
help in this their crusade to save democracy in the world, when even Pandit Nehru was 
calling upon India to support these British and French democracies in the holy war they were 
carrying on against the Imperialistic German aggression on Poland and other free nations 
and while the leader of the Forward Block, the Communists, the Royists and other parties too 
were swearing by the anti-imperialistic innocence free from all political greed on the part of 
Poland and Russia, the Hindu Mahasabha was about the only organized and outstanding 
political body in India which was firm and far-signted enough to give the correct lead to the 
country and to the Congress itself in ascertaining the real motives and objectives of the 
belligerents by asserting that none of the belligerent powers in Europe whether England, 
Germany, Poland, France or Russia, etc. had been actuated by any moral, democratic or 
altruistic considerations apart form its own self-interest and self-agrandisement. The Viceroy 
and the Secretary of State for India have more than once wanted us to believe in their 
various speeches that the only objective which had actuated Britain to continue the war had 
been 'to resist aggression whether against England or others, to defend great democratic 
ideals and without seeking any material advantage to lay the foundation of a better 
international system and to secure a real and lasting peace.' No better proof can be aduced 
to disprove these declarations as to the altruistic objectives of Great Britain in going to the 
war than the fact that they provided an occasion for Hitler to retort when he was asked by 
Chamberlain to free Poland that he would do so as soon as Great Britain freed India. Verily 
does the adage say,'thieves alone can trace the footsteps of thieves best.' 

(b) Consequently, the demand of the Congressite leaders like Pandit Nehru calling 
upon Great Britain to tell their general objectives ingoing to the war seems to me altogether 
idle. Firstly because Britain has been repeating those general objectives in the above strain 
ad nauseam and secondly, because the declaration of any general pious objectives cannot be 
worth a brass farthing unless they were immediately translated into actions wherever it was 
possible to do so, as England could have done it in the case of India by granting her a 
democratic and free constitutuion. But she did nothing of the sort. It is crystal clear that the 
general objectives of every one of those countries engaged in the war or in fact every nation 
in the world today cannot be any other than to serve, safeguard and promote its own 
interests and extend its domination on as large a part of the world as it is able to do, If 
Hitler or Mussolini is out to win a new Empire because the wants more room on the globe for 
his people and power to expand. Churchill and Stalin and Roosevelt want to secure and 
maintain their mastery over the Empires they already possess. The labels masking that 
mastery may be different. They may call it an Empire or a democratic republic or a Soviet 
republic but they all are out to thrust the will and the domination of their nations by force 
upon other people and their territories against their own will. Is not France a democratic 
republic ? But it has robbed the freedom of so many countries in the world including our 
Pondicherry and Chandra Nagar as to stand only second to England in the extent of colonial 
possessions. Russia also is a republic and a Soviet republic to boot but extends its mastery 
almost over a continent conquered by force and has swallowed Poland and other small 
nations as greedily as Germany did. 

(c) The same thing could be said about the 'Isms' each of them follow. Under 
whatever label their principles are trotted out whether as Bolshevism or Nazim or Facism or 


Page 80 of 130 



Hindu Rashtra Darshan 


Repulicanism or Parliamentarianism their armed domination over other peoples they have 
conquered or wish to conquer does not and cannot savour of anything else but autocratic 
tyranny. Under such circumstances it would be but a suicidal folly for India to be taken in by 
the slogans or by the labels on their principles and policies which all of them use with the 
holy purpose to camouflage their real intentions. We should neither hate nor love Nazists or 
Bolshecists or Democrats simply on the ground of any theoretical or bookish reasons. There 
is no reason to suppose that Hitler must be a human monster because he passes off as a 
Nazi or Churchill is a demi-God because he calls himself a Democrat. Nazism proved 
undeniably the saviour of Germany under the set of circumstances Germany was placed in, 
Bolshevism might have suited Russia very well and we know what the English Democracy has 
cost us. 

Political science and history both carry out the fact that no constitution or social 
system can be beneficial under all circumstances and for all alike. No people are so attached 
to democracy and to individual liberty as the British so far as their own Nation is concerned. 
But under war conditions did they not throw the democratical conception and constitution 
overboard in a day and vote for almost an undiluted dictatorship ? Is not Mr. Churchill today 
to England what Herr Hitler is to Germany, whose word is nearly the only law of the land ? 
Only the last mail from England brought a leading paper in which a British poet sang the 
dirge of liberty in the following wailing notes, asking, 

'We know the war court is intact 
But what of the Habeas Corpus Act 
The Freedom's isle they could not save 

Till it was Magna Charta's grave.' 

Consequently, there is no meaning in calling upon Indians that it is their duty to fight 
Germany simply because they are Totalitarians and Nazis or to love the French or the English 
or the Americans simply because they are Democrats or Republicans. The sanest policy for 
us which practical politics demand is to befriend those who are likely to serve our country’s 
interests in spite of any 'ism' they follow for themselves and to befriend only so long as it 
serves our purpose. The Nazis and the Bolshevists were the most deadly enemies to each 
other on theoretical grounds but when on the given question of Poland and the general 
interests in this war they thought an alliance would serve the purpose of their nations better, 
they joined hands overnight in mutual friendship. Had England herself gone to war say with 
Russia and had Hitler taken the English side, can anyone doubt that England would have 
landed this very Nazi Germany as enthusiastically as they did the Imperialistic Germany in 
the days of Bismark when he invaded and crushed these very French people with whom 
England happened then to be inimical ever since the rise of the Republic Revolution in France 
to the fall of Napolean III ? Were not these very Americans although her own kith and kin, 
held up by England before the world as the most faithless and treacherous type of humanity 
in spite of the fact that they were republicans when they revolted against England and 
secured their independence ? And yet now that a close alliance with America is almost the 
last refuge guaranteeing any certainty of saving England from a disastrous defeat, what 
desperate love has locked John Bull and Uncle Sam into an unseparable embrace ! Nay, is 
not England already casting a wistful eye to woo the very Bolshevist Russia whom she cursed 
all along and if but the latter accepts England's hand and breaks off with Germany can there 
be any doubt that England would immediately begin to bless the Bolshevist Government as 
'our noble ally ?' 

(d) Nor should the bogey of the German's conquering India with which the 
English try to frignten us out of our wits be taken too seriously into consideration in framing 
our immediate policy in response to the war situation. As things stand it is not very likely, 
nay it is altogether improbable that in this war England will be defeated so disastrously as to 
get compelled to hand over her Indian Empire, lock, stock and barrel into German hands. 
When Columbus, they say, was on the point of effecting his first landing in America the 
natives showed fight. Thereupon Columbus who knew that an eclipse of the Sun was 


Page 81 of 130 



Hindu Rashtra Darshan 


imminent, posed as a deputy sent by God and informed the natives that if they did not 
welcome him and help him in landing he would remove the Sun from the skies and an 
eternal darkness would set in. Very soon the unsubmitting natives found to their utter 
consternation that the Sun was really getting removed from the skies and darkness setting 
in. So they hurried on with fruits, flowers and gifts to the shore and welcomed and helped 
him to land. The threat which the English hold before the Indian eyes 'Help us or Hitler will 
set in' sounds as unreal, ridiculous and crafty as the ultimatum which Columbus delivered to 
the natives 'Help me or eternal darkness will set in.' On the one hand the English are 
assuring the whole world that they are sure to crush Hitler in the long run while in the same 
breath tell us 'Help us or the Germans are sure to conquer India !' The fact is that if ever the 
English really come to fee/ so helpless that without our help they were sure to lose India they 
would offer us of themselves not only the Dominion Status but some of their colonies and 
possessions as they are doing today in the case of America. 

Again, even if we take for granted for the sake of argument that the war takes such a 
turn as to enable the Germans to invade India there is no reason why we should only take 
that probability as certainty that the withdrawal of the British from India must only mean the 
occupation of her by Germany. In such world-earthquakes when Empires totter to pieces, 
history abounds with examples showing that subject nations often find their effective 
opportunity of achieving independence by playing one mighty enemy against the other to the 
annihilation of the aggressive might of both of them. Secondly, if the war causes the sudden 
withdrawal of the British from India without enabling the Germans or any other great power 
to occupy India at a stroke and brings us Hindus face to face with only an internal anarchy 
and a consequent civil war with the Moslems which argument some people try to use as an 
alternate threat to frighten us into unconditional submission, there would ne every chance 
that the Hindus will prove victorious in such a civil war and remain the undisputed masters in 
their own house. 

In short, none of these pseudo-moral hypothetical or problematical reasons trotted 
out mainly to dupe or frighten us with a view to exact unconditional and willing co-operation 
British war efforts should be allowed to form the only ground on which our war policy and 
programme can be based. We shall of course take these reasons also into consideration but 
only in so far as they are likely to really affect our own national interests in a matter-of-fact 
way. In framing our programme so far as it lies in our power our only consideration should 
be how best can we take advantage of the war situation to promote our own interests, how 
best can we help ourselves in safeguarding and if possible even in promoting the Hindu 
cause. 


In doing so we should take great care not to indulge in any idle, useless and even 
harmful bombast by making light of our overwhelming weakness on the one hand as well as 
not to underrate on the other hand whatever strength we even now possess or are likely to 
possess as the war situation develops from day to day. Within these limitations let us 
examine some of the leading courses of action which are either likely to present themselves 
for consideration or are actually suggested or acted upon by the different political parties in 
India. 


An Armed Revolt on a National Scale The first and the foremost effective course 
that would have presented itself to any subjected people as best calculated to asset its 
independence while its adversary was entangled into serious war with some of its powerful 
foes, would have naturally been to rise in arms to assert its own freedom. But firstly, 
disarmed, disorganized and disunited as we are, an armed revolt against England on a 
National scale is entirely ruled out under our present circumstances. And, secondly, the 
question of any armed resistence cannot even form a sunject of discussion on an open 
platform of such institutions as the Hindu Mahasabha or the Congress or any other public and 


Page 82 of 130 



Hindu Rashtra Darshan 


open bodies in India under their present constitutions and within the sphere of action they 
have chalked out for themselves under their present aims and objects. Consequently, not on 
any moral grounds but on the grounds of practical politics we are compelled not to concern 
ourselves on behalf of the Hindu Mahasabha organization with any programme involving any 
armed resistance, under the present circumstances. 

The Gandhijist 'Satyagraha'Based on Absolute Non-Violence 
On the other hand no programme based on the monomaniacal principle of absolute non¬ 
violence is worth a moment's consideration. If the first extreme remedy of an armed rising 
on a National scale is ruled out on grounds of practical politics, this other extreme of absolute 
non-violence condemning all armed resistence even to an incorrigible aggression must be 
ruled out not only on practical grounds alone but even on moral grounds. 

Without going into deep waters for want of space and time to ascertain what 
constitutes the criterion of a moral action, whether morality derives its sanction from 
Intuition or Revelation or Exigency, the most practical factor and one which ought to be 
common to all of these schools of moral thought and which alone can practically serve to 
distinguish a moral act from an immoral one, a virtue from a vice, the good from the bad is 
the utilitarian principle that everything that contributes under a given set of circumstances to 
human good is moral, a virtue and the opposite is immoral, a vice under those given 
circumstances; that all mortality is essentially human. J udged from this most practial and yet 
fundamental test, the principle of absolute non-violence condemning all armed resistence 
even to incorrigible aggression can not but be ruled out as absolutely impracticable, anti 
human and therefore positively immoral. If a serpent finds its way slyly into a pack of 
children sleeping soundly or a mad dog rushes all of a sudden foaming with insane 
exasperation into a crowded fair and you do not kill it there and then even if you can, on 
principle of absolute non-violence, you abet the murderous violence which the serpent or the 
mad dog commits by biting innocent human beings to death, you are criminally doubly guilty 
in refusing to save the life of human beings to spare the life of a serpent or a dog and leave 
it free to take more human lives at leisure as occasion arises. On the contrary if you kill the 
serpent and the dog there and then you are still guilty of violence from the point of your own 
principle of absolute non-violence killing no living being. Even this one illustration is enough 
to prove that the principle of absolute non-violence is not only absolutely impracticable but 
anti-human and therefore absolutely immoral. What holds good in these individual cases 
does also hold good in matters affecting nation. It must be noted in this connection that 
even those religions which put the virtue of non-violence, Ahimsa above all virtues had to 
admit exceptions and did not or could not assert tha absolute non-violence condemning all 
armed resistance whatsover even to incorrigible aggression constituted a virtue. 

Relative is a virtue; but absolute 

JffpHT a crime! 

Of course, relative non-violence on the whole is doubtless a virtue so pre-eminently 
contributing to human good as to form one of the fundamentals on which human life 
whether individual or social can take its stand and evolve all social amenitites. But absolute 
non-violence that is non-violence under all circumstances and even when instead of helping 
human life whether individual or national it causes an incalculable harm to humanity as a 
whole ought to be condemned as a moral perversity and is on the whole condemned likewise 
by those very religious and moral schools which lauded relative non-violence as the first and 
foremost human virtue. 

The ahimsa of the Jains and Buddists is opposed 
to this Gandhist Doctrine of ahimsa 


Page 83 of 130 



Hindu Rashtra Darshan 


It should be noted in particular that the ahimsa preached by the Buddhist or the J ain 
religion is directly opposed to the absolute Ahimsa or the absolute non-violence as Gandhiji 
interprets it condemning all armed resistence under all circumstances. The very fact that 
the Jains reared up kingdoms, produced heroes and heroines who fought armed battles and 
Jain Commanders-in-chief leading Jain armies without being ostracized by the Jain Acharyas 
prove this point to the hilt that the Ahimsa of the Jains cannot be the rabid Ahimsa of the 
Gandhist school. Nay, the Jain scriptures openly assert that armed resistance to incorrigible 
aggression is not only justifiable but imperative. To save a saint from being murdered 
outright by a violent and armed sinner, Ahimsa itself requires that the sinner should be killed 
there and then if that act alone could save the life of the saint. Such a Himsa is in itself an 
act of Ahimsa and the J ain scriptures defend it, almost in the words used by Manu himself to 
defend it, that the sin of killing in such a case recoils on the murderer himself whose act was 
responsible for the reaction, !' Bhagwan Buddha also gave the same ruling 

when questioned by the leaders of a clan as to whether they should take to armed resistance 
as soldiers against the armed aggression, of another clan. 'Soldiers may fight against armed 
aggression,' said Bhagwan Buddha, 'without committing a sin if but they fight with arms in 
defence of a righteous cause.' 

The defensive sword was the first saviour of man! 

Call it a law of nature or the will of God as you like, the iron fact remains that there is 
no room for absolute non-violence in nature. Man could not have saved himself from utter 
extinction nor could have but led the precarious and wretched life of a coward and a worm 
had he not succeeded in adding the strength of artificial Arms to his natural arm. In those 
Geological periods when he evolved to manhood he was surrounded by such ferocious brute 
and serpentine order that he found himself, individual to individual, the weakest being; 
physically the most unfit to survive in contest during the struggle for existence that was 
reging round in the formidable primitive jungles which was his first home. He had neither 
poisonous fangs not tusks nor horns nor blood-thirsty claws. We call the cow as physically 
and by nature the most harmless and the most incapable of self-defence. But even a cow 
could have cowed down a man in a naked physical combat and even killed him by piercing 
her pointed horns in his stomach as none of his natural organs were a match for them. It 
was only his capacity to invent artificial weapons to add to the strength of his natural limbs, 
which the beasts and the brutes failed to develop that man could cope with tigers and lions 
and wolves and serpents and crocodiles and could snatch the mastery of the earth and water 
from his wild enemies. Throughout the paleolethic periods, the bronze age and the iron age 
man could maintain himself, multiply and master this earth chiefly through this his armed 
strength. Verily the Defensive Sword was the first Saviour of man ! 

The belief in absolute non-violence condemning all 
armed resistance even to aggression evinces no 
mahatmaic saintliness but a monomaniacai 
senselessness! 

What held good in man's struggle with the brute world continued to be true 
throughout his social, the struggle of clan against clan, race against race, nation against 
nation. The lesson is branded on every page of human history down to the latest page that 
nations which, other things equal, are superior in military strength are bound to survive, 
flourish and dominate while those which are militarily weak shall be politically subjected or 
cease to exist at all. It is idle to say, we shall and a new chapter to history but you cannot 
add to or take away a syllable from the iron law of Nature itself. Even today if man hand 
over a blank cheque to the wolf and the tiger to be filled in, with a human pledge of absolute 
non-violence, no killing of a living being, no armed force to be used, then the wolves and the 


Page 84 of 130 



Hindu Rashtra Darshan 


tigers will lay waste all your mandirs and mosques, culture and cultivation, Aramas and 
Ashrams-finish man Saint and sinner alike before a dozen years pass by ! In face of such an 
iron law of nature can anything be more immoral and sinful than to preach a principle so 
anti-human as that of absolute non-violence condemning all armed resistance even to 
aggression ? 

And yet it is curious to find that even those who condemn this doctrine of absolute 
non-violence as impracticable seem still to believe that though impracticable for us worldly 
men, this doctrine is nevertheless highly moral and evince some Mahatmaic excellence, some 
superhuman sanctity. This apologetic tone must be forthwith changed, It raises these 
prophets of this eccentric doctrine in their own estimation and makes them feel they had 
really invented some moral law raising human politics to some divine level. Seeing that even 
their opponents on practical grounds attribute to them a superhuman saintliness owing to the 
very eccentricity of their doctrine, they grow, perhaps unconsciously all the more eccentric 
and have the insane temerity to preach in all seriousness to the Indian public that 'even the 
taking up of lathi is sinful. The best means of freeing India from the foreign yoke is the 
spinning-wheel. Not only that but even after India becomes imdependent there would not be 
any necessity of maintaining a single armed sodier or a single warship to protect her 
frontiers. If but India believes and acts in the spirit of such absolute non-violence 
maintaining no army, no navy or no air force, no nation in the world shall invade her and 
even if some armed nations did invade her they could be easily persuaded to fall back as 
soon as they are confronted by the unarmed army of our Desha Sevikas singing to the tune 
of the spinning-wheel musical appeals to the conscience of the invading forces.' When things 
have come to such a pass that such quixotic souls are sent as accredited spokesmen by the 
credulous crowd to the round table conference and even in foreign lands such senseless 
proposals are seriously advanced by them in the name of the Indian Nation itself in so many 
words to the great merriment of the foreign statesmen and the general public in Europe and 
America-the time has surely come to take this doctrinal plague quite seriously and to 
counteract it as quickly as possible. We must tell them in no apologetic language but in firm 
accents that your doctrine of absolute non-violence is not only absolutely impracticable but 
absolutely immoral. It is not an outcome of any saintliness but of insanity. It requires no 
ingenuity on your part to tell us that if but all men observe absolute non-violence, there will 
be no war in the world and no necessity of any armed forces. Just as it requires no 
extraordinary insight to maintain that if but men learn to live forever mankind will be free 
from death. We denounce you doctrine of absolute non-violence not because we are less 
saintly but because we are more sensible than you are. Relative non-violence is our creed 
and therefore, we worship the defensive sword as the first saviour of man. It was in this 
faith that Hindus worship the arms as the Symbols of the Shakti, the Kali, and Guru 
Govindsingh sang his hymn to the Sword. ^<id'Hdl‘M u lJH s 

11 And we also join with the great Guru in the refrain and sing with him, 'Hail Thee, Sword.' 

It is in this spirit that I want all Hindus to get themselves re-animated and re-born 
into a martial race. Manu and Shri Krishna are our law givers and Shri Rama the Commander 
of our forces. Let us re-learn the manly lessons they taught us and our Hindu Nation shall 
prove again as unconquerable and conquering a race as we proved once when they led us : 
conquering those who dared to be aggressive against us and refraining ourselves, not out of 
weakness but out of magnanimity, from any unjustifiable designs of aggression against the 
unoffending. 

It goes then without saying that the Hindu Sanghatanist actuated by such a faith can 
never associate with the Gandhist 'Satyagraha' which demands freedom to preach this 
immoral principle of absolute non-violence condemning all armed resistance even to alien 
aggression, as it is highly detrimental to our Hindu interests in particular. It is indeed more 


Page 85 of 130 



Hindu Rashtra Darshan 


harmful to Hindu interests than it can ever be to the interest of the Government. Crafty as 
the British policy has ever been, they like to some extent that some one should always be 
preaching to the Hindus that the spinning qualities are more spiritual than the fighting ones 
and that the highest human virtue consists in getting killed by any invading aggressors than 
killing them in self-defence. It pays the British to some extent. I shall not be surprised if the 
Government allow the Gandhists to preach the doctrine of absolute non-violence provided 
they do not say a word against the present war. In fact some such compromise was 
suggested by the Government and may be accepted by the Gandhists later on just to flourish 
it in the face of the public as a trophy won by their Satyagraha. But even if the Government 
allow the preaching of this doctrine denouncing all armed strength, then in that case it will 
be the duty of the Hindu Sanghatanists themselves to offer all legitimate opposition to this 
vicious principle in their own interests and on their own account from the Sanghatanist 
platform. We must whip up military enthusiasm amongst the Hindus. That is the most 
crying need of today and must form the chief plank of the Hindu Sanghatanist platform. 

The militarization and industrialization of the Hindus 

must constitute our immediate objective under the 
war conditions 

Thus after taking stock of all other courses and factors for and against us, I feel no hesitation 
in proposing that the best way of utilizing the opportunities which the war has afforded to us 
cannot be any other than to participate in all war efforts which the Government are 

compelled by circumstances to put forth in so far as they help in bringing about the 

militarization and industrialization of our people. Fortunately for us facilities are thrown open 
to us in this direction within a single year in consequence of the war which we could not find 

during the last fifty years and could not have hoped to secure in ordinary course by empty 

protests and demands for the next fifry years to come. Owing to the Gandhist lead the 
Congress had neglected the question of fostering military strength of our people, to such an 
extent that even the wordy resolutions which the Congress used to pass while it was under 
the lead of those who were called Moderates but who in this particular respect were more 
Extremists and far-signted than this spineless school of Gandhist non-resisters, used to pass 
demanding the repeal of the Arms Act and Indianization of the Army, were tabooed for the 
last twenty years under Gandhiji's pressure on the Congress platform. Even when the 
Congress was in power it did not take a single step to promote or even to safeguard the 
military interests of our people. But throughout the last twenty years the Moslems, who 
cared a fig for any non-violent, non-resisting, non co-operation nonsense in which the 
Congress kept indulging under Gandhiji's pressure, almost monopolised recruitment into the 
army and armed police. It was only a few Hindu Mahasabhait leaders like our revered Dr. 
Moonje and Bhai Paramanand who were trying their best to counteract the senseless policy 
of the Congress owing to which the Hindus alone had to suffer and lose whatever numerical 
strength they had in the army. Not only that the sophistical teaching of the so-called 
Satyagraha creed sought to kill the very martial instinct of the Hindu race and had succeeded 
to an alarming extent in doing so. That was the reason why throughout my tours as the 
President of the Hindu Mahasabha I made it my duty to put this point above all others and 
tried my best to give a fillip to military awakening amongst the Hindus by addressing 
thousands and thousands of Hindu youths from Punjab to Madras with no negligible success. 
But I was always at a loss to know how we Hindu Sanghatanists can find immediate ways 
and means to impart to our young Hindu generation the practical and up-to-date military 
training. Just then the war broke out and the British Government, to serve their own 
interests, were compelled to raise new military forces in India on a large scale. Naturally, the 
Hindu Mahasabha with a true insight into practical politics decided to participate in all war 
efforts of the British Government in so far as they concerned directly with the question of the 
Indian defence and raising new military forces in India. I emphatically maintain that the 
results of that policy even within a year of its trial are positively encouraging. 


Page 86 of 130 



Hindu Rashtra Darshan 


Results in participating in war efforts satisfactory 

In examining these results we must bear in mind that the British are raising these 
Military forces and encouraging industrial development so far as it helps their war efforts with 
no altruistic motives of helping the Indians. They are doing whatever they have to do to help 
themselves. We are also participating in these war efforts or at any rate are not out to 
oppose them, with no intention of helping the British but of helping ourselves. I have put the 
situation almost bluntly in the above manner to disarm the political folly into which the Indian 
public is accustomed to indulge in thinking that because Indian interests are opposed to the 
British interests in general, any step in which we join hands with the British Government 
must necessarily be an act of surrender, anti-national, of playing into the British hands and 
that co-operation with the British Government in any case and under all circumstances is 
unpatriotic and condemnable. It is all the more amusing to find that this spirit of silly 
bravado is more rampant amongst those very Congressites who did not hesitate to serve the 
British Government by conducting their Provincial Ministries swearing loyalty and allegiance 
to the British Domination in the oath of allegiance which they had to take; who wept over the 
fancied destruction of Westminster Abbey, only the other day and had served the British 
Government as their recruiting officers during the last war and are even now promising full 
co-operation to the British, if but they get some of their fadist demands satisfied and assure 
the British that they would do nothing even as it is to embarrass the British. But the Hindu 
Sanghatanists at any rate must realise the difference between a senseless bravado and real 
act of bravery. As I have explained above in para ( c) how in practical politics, alliances are 
to be based on any point of common interests in spite of the fact of the conflict in all other 
interests between the allied parties. Who can say that Hitler or Stalin can be wanting in 
bravery or can be silly enough to play into the other's hand and yet did not both of them join 
in alliance, in spite of their opposing interests on all other points, as soon as they found that 
their mutual interests coalesced on some points during this war ? One who is always afraid 
of being duped by others must be a simpleton indeed deserving to be duped all round. The 
Hindu Sanghatanists are so conscious of their political wisdom and so self-confident that they 
can take good care of themselves against being duped even by the crafty statesmanship of 
Great Britain and therefore fee! no hesitation and ought to fee! no hesitation in extending a 
whole-hearted participation in the war efforts of Great Britain if but it serves their own 
purpose better then any other course. 

Examining from this point of view the results of the Hindu Mahasabha's policy of 
participating in the war efforts so far as the militarization of the Hindus is concerned, we note 
that during the last year one hundred thousand new recruits were enlisted in the Indian 
Army. While in the old army the proportion of the Moslems had risen in some parts even to 
75% we find amongst these new recruits, there are nearly sixty thousand Hindus and thirty 
thousand Moalems. The strength of the air force also is teribly increased and is being daily 
increased. It is very encouraging a fact that the Hindus are evincing a special interest and 
ability in the aircraft and are getting themselves enlisted in large numbers in the air forces 
and many of them are already serving on the war front and partaking in actual air fights 
against the seasoned air forces of Germany. In the naval forces, it is regrettable to note that 
the Hindus counted for nothing upto this time. In the very small number of Indians which 
was somehow connected with the navy, more than 75% were Moslems. Consequently, 
strong representations were made by the Hindu Mahasabha during this year against this 
partiality of the Government. The sea-faring and sea-fighting Hindu castes on the Konkan 
coast in particular who distinguished themselves so valourously in the days of the Maratha 
Empire as to inflict several serious defeats on the English sea-forces but who have been 
neglected of late by England perhaps owing to the self-same old grudge the English bear to 
them, were roused form their lethargy and were made to demand entry into the naval forces. 
Hundreds of meetings were organized by the Hindu Mahasabha this year in the villages and 


Page 87 of 130 



Hindu Rashtra Darshan 


towns which were attended by very large numbers of these castes; the Agris, the Bhandaris, 
the Kolis and others; and petitions signed by thousands of them were submitted to the 
Government demanding entry into the naval forces and the opening of shipyards and naval 
bases on the Konkan coast. In response to this agitation on the part of the Hindu 
Mahasabhaits on this point throughout India, the Government have promised to recruit 
Hindus in naval service without any distinction and have also admitted the fact that the 
Hindus are showing more inclination to take to that line than they were doing formerly. In 
order to meet the large demand for technicians to work the new factories started on a very 
large scale to manufacture military equipment, rifles and even tanks, the Government has 
already made arrangements for fifteen thousand Indian candidates to be trained immediately 
as technicians. All experts to train them who were available in India are called upon to take 
up the work and in addition to them, technical experts in up-to-date war crafts are 
requisitioned by the Indian Government from England as well. Besides, this large number 
of I ndian workers and technical hands are to be sent to England to receive the training in up- 
to-date methods. They will all stay together with the British technical hands and labourers, 
will receive pay on the same scale and will be treated on an equal footing. The cost of it all 
will also be borne by the British Government. As the raising, equipping and training of the 
new army of lakh of Indian soldiers is already substantially complete, the Government has 
only, recently announced the expansion of the Indian Army to half a million men of all arms. 
Thus nearly two lakhs of Indians would be immediately recruited and the ever increasing 
necessity under war pressure is sure sure to compel the Government to recruit some five 
lakhs of Indian soldiers before long bringing up the total strength of the Indian Army to a 
million soldiers properly trained, equipped and even mechanised to bring them up to an up- 
to-date efficiency. Then again we must take into consideration the large increase in the 
armies of the different Hindu states that has been sanctioned by the Government under war 
pressure. Not less than forty battalions have already been sent to the different fronts of the 
war and are taking their lessons in actual fighting on modern lines. The old rusty outlook of 
the forces of the Hindu states has already been transformed as to present a smart well 
armed and well equipped front. 

The sudden increase in the army from some two lakhs to ten lakhs of Indian soldiers 
was bound to create an enormous demand for commissioned officers. So the old policy of 
army Indianization by the introduction of special Indianised units has been scrapped and all 
units have been opened to Indian officers recruitment. The Viceroy's commissioned officers 
too have been reintroduced in the Indianised units and thus all units are placed on the same 
footing. There is consequently an enormous field opened out for Indians to serve as officers 
in the army in all capacities and on equal footing with the British officers who upto this time 
enjoyed a sort of monopoly in officering the army. Besides this expansion of the rank, file 
and officers in the regular army to a million men, the Indian territorial forces also are soon 
to be re-touched, more efficiently equipped and expanded. 

So far as the question of the compulsory military education to be introduced into the 
high schools and colleges is concerned the Indian Government is still following obstructive 
tactics. But it must be noted that the Senates of almost all leading Universities in India have 
demanded during this year that compulsory military training must forthwith be introduced 
and are already knocking at the gates of Government which as the war pressure goes on 
increasing are sure to yield and get thrown open. 

Only a year ago the Indian Government used to trot out the excuse that it would take 
at least fifty years to train up the Indians who had lost all their military instinct to form 
efficient army officers by their own men on such a large scale as that. But now they have 
suddenly discovered that Indians like other human beings in Europe could be trained as 
efficient soldiers and officers in lakhs within a few months and could fight on equal terms 
with Eutopean armies on the European fields. Verily necessity is the mother of invention and 


Page 88 of 130 



Hindu Rashtra Darshan 


as the necessity grows more pressing under the international political complications, England 
shall have to learn that not only a million Indians but a billion Indians are capable of being 
trained as soldiers and officers as efficient as the European ones within a couple of years to 
come. 


The manufacture of war materials on an enormous scale is also being introduced in 
India which has already afforded and is sure to affort as days pass by an opportunity for 
thousands of our artisans, craftsmen, workers and technicians to get specialised in turning 
out up-to-date rifles, tanks, ammunition and even machines required in connection with 
them. 


Then, again, whatever be their reluctance, the Indian Government has at last been 
compelled to permit Sheth Walchand Hirachand who must be specially congratulated on his 
untiring efforts and able lead in this respectm to open a shipyard at Bezwada financed by 
Indian capital, worked by Indian labour under Indian management. Permission for opening a 
factory to manufacture aeroplanes on a large scale has also been granted to Sheth Walchand 
Hirachand who has already selected a sight at Bangalore and is sure to set it going at full 
speed with his characteristic promptness and efficiency. The Government has already lodged 
an order for a crore of rupees of planes. 

With regard to large Industries other than the war industries it suffices to say that 
this year has given a fillip to many a chemical industry, the paper industry etc., etc. Within a 
couple of years if but the war pressure is continued we are sure to record an industrial 
progress which otherwise even a dozen years would not have enabled us to do as the 
Government stood always in our way to economical self-sufficiency. But not that military 
exigencies have forced England to raise India to a self-sufficient economical and military 
unit,-a centre commanding the defences of the whole Eastern part of their Empire from 
Egypt to Australia, they are compelled to see that the key industries and even industries in 
general are started and flourish in this country to such a wide extent that if ever the 
connection of the Eastern part of their Empire is at least temporarily cut off from the Western 
Empire, they may be able to depend for all the sinews of war chiefly on India which abounds 
in the resources of men and materials. 

A serious question 

Now I ask you all whether you could have ever been able to bring about such rapid 
militarization and industrialization of the country within a year out of your own sources ? 
Could have the Hindu Mahasabha or the Congress or any such public organization ever been 
able to recruit, train and equip half a million of our men and send them to learn real fighting 
on the field on the strength of its own resourses ? And even if you had aimed to do so, 
would the British Government have ever allowed you to do so ? We could not have 
conducted even lathi clubs on such a large scale. Even last year were we not as alive ot the 
urgency of militarization of our Hindu people ? But were we not unable even last year even 
to run half a dozen institutions to impart military education even to a few hundred Hindu 
youths ? And now that the war has opened out an opportunity for us to send hundreds of 
thousands of Hindus to the army, the navy, the air services and to get them fully trained, 
equipped and armed as up-to-date soldiers and commanding officers and for building 
shipyards, aeroplane factories, gun factories, ammunition factories and get thousands of our 
mechanics trained into war technical experts,-hall we turn our back on all these facilities, 
refuse to join the army or to decline to participate in the manufacture of our materials simply 
because some fools will call it a co-operation with the Government or some booby will curse 
it as an act of violence ? If we do so we shall but deserve even ourselves to be bracketed 
with the fool and the booby. 


Page 89 of 130 



Hindu Rashtra Darshan 


Let us note also that these half a million or million of men who are finding 
employment in the army and the thousand s of workers and artisans and technicians and 
specialists who will get work and secure posts in the war material factories and the industries 
made possible by the war will bring food and clothing and necessaries of life, to at least fifty 
lakhs of persons belonging to the very class who are at present suffering most on account of 
chronic unemployment ? Will it not lessen the unbearable burden that at present falls on our 
agricultural classes who have to depend on the proceeds of land in spite of its daily 
diminishing returns ? 


The advent of Japan near our Frontiers must 
compel England to depend on India for military 
help to an ever-increasing extent 

The most important point that I want you to bear in mind in this connection is to the 
effect that the British Government has not initiated this policy of militarizing our Nation to do 
which we all know how deadly opposed they were till only the last year, with the only view of 
helping themselves in the present war in Europe. So long as only European wars were 
concerned the British knew that they could not depend much on India. Nor did they ever 
want to do so. Their policy in the European wars had for the last two hundred years or so 
been simple. They used to get a group of European nations on their side, make it fight with 
the other group of European nations opposed to them. Even if they wanted to get help from 
India in men and materials it would have been impossible and would not have also paid to 
transfer millions of men and enormous war materials to boot, to Europe. That was the 
reason why England did not run the risk of militarizing India whom she naturally did not like 
to trust, on such a large permanent scale as she is trying to do now. But the longish shadow 
of the dwarfish Jap that has of late fallen on the very Bay of Bengal constitutes a new 
menace to the English supremacy in India which requires a new military policy quite opposite 
in some respects to the one which England followed upto this time as denoted above. The 
ever-advancing forces of Japan with a declared objective of freeing Asia from European 
influence has naturally scared England and made her realize in all seriousness that a war with 
Japan in the near future is in all probability inevitable. The British statesmanship, far-sighted 
as it usually is, realized this also that if ever war broke out with Japan, India itself must be 
the centre of gravity of all war preparations, the central depot of war resources inmen and 
ammunitions. If there was an impossibility of transferring large armies from I ndia to England 
in the cases of the European wars, the difficulty now was exactly the opposite to it. Nay, 
England could not under present circumstances afford to send any substantial number of 
British forces or quantity of war material to India while such respectable foes as Hitler, 
Mussolini or Stalin were waiting to pounce on England herself. If Japan is to be fought out 
then the millions of men required for that fight must be raised and all the war material must 
be manufactured in India itself. This new factor, therefore, is bound to render England more 
and more dependent on Indian military help and therein lies the guarantee for us also that 
the militarization of our nation will continue on a far larger scale as years pass by and Great 
Britain is sure to extend all possible facilities for developing our military capacity, if but we 
also extend an enthusiastic participation in her war efforts. Chances are that an army with 
the strength of a couple of millions shall have to be raised, manned by Indians under Indian 
officers as rapidly as J apan succeds in advancing near our Frontiers. 

Now again, I ask you, shall we lose this golden opportunity to acquire this military 
strength which our interests also demand and British interests compel Britain to help us in 
that task simply because some fadists call it an act of violence or some fools condemn it as 
co-operation with Imperialism ? Or shall we take the wisest step, of allying ourselves with 
Britain on this point alone and to the extent to which it serves Hindu interests and flood the 
new army to be raised with Hindu Sanghatanists and re-animate our race with martial spirit 
and regain the military strength and status we had lost ? 


Page 90 of 130 



Hindu Rashtra Darshan 


Of all courses open to us at present, I emphatically recommend to you this course : 
that the Hindus can best utilise the war situation by helping on their part the militarization 
and industrialization of India which the British on their side are also eager to effect for their 
own interests. And again, just think of the fact, that even if you Hindus refuse to join the 
army or the navy or the air force or the factories of war materials, the only immediate result 
will be that the Moslems will get into the saddle and instead of weakening the British 
Government you will find that you have strengthened a second enemy who is no less bent 
upon subjecting you to helotage in your own land. 

The so-called Satyagraha of the Congress can only 
serve as a stunt for the elections at best 

Again, what is the alternate programme to one adopted by the Hindu Mahasabha ? 
Shouting some slogans and going into the jail ? I appreciate the motive of those patriotic 
men in the Congress; I sympathise with their sufferings. But I must plainly state, that they 
have made a mess of all political movements and the Satyagraha they have now launched 
can bring no subatantial good to the country. It is to some extent useful and was perhaps 
meant to serve as a stunt for the next elections. Are the Hindu Sanghatanists going to adopt 
a counter-stunt ? We would have been justified in doing that too. But the Hindu Mahasabha 
as an organization cannot do the two things at one and the same time. If it participates in 
the war efforts with a view to reap the most subatantial benefits in militarizing the Hindus, 
and allies itself with the Government to that extent, it cannot as an organization take to any 
civil resistance to the Government, which act will directly prove detrimental to our first and 
greater objective. You cannot both eat and have the cake. Of course, the Hindu Mahasabha 
can resort to Civil Resistance, if the issue is more profitable than the two great objective 
which it seeks to gain, viz. militarization and industrialization. 

The Hindusabhaits are full of fight 

I have consulted almost all leading workers and branches of the Mahasabha and it 
was very encouraging to find that the Mahasabhaits and especially the youthful workers were 
extremely anxious to launch a fighting programme, but only in view of the fact that the 
Congress has adopted one. Their chief anxiety seems to be to take to civil resistance as a 
counter-stunt to defeat the purpose of the Congress to win the next elections by the cheap 
method of courting jail under the A and B classes. But we should consider first, why do we 
Hindusabhaits want to win the elections ? Of course, to serve the Hindu interests best. Now 
nobody realises the importance of winning the election more than I do. But, if the Hindu 
interests are likely to suffer more by running after the elections, is it not our duty to discard 
them rather than sacrifice Hindu interests ? If the programme, most beneficial under the 
present circumstances of participating in the war efforts with the two objectives mentioned 
above, is likely to suffer by civil resistance on issues which do not serve the Hindu interests in 
any substantial manner and if the elections could only be won by any such harmful means, it 
is our dear duty to lose the elections rather than try to win them by pandering to the follies 
of the electorate to the detriment of the Hindu cause. The Nizam Civil Resistance movement 
affords a sufficient and the latest proof to convince any sensible electorate that the Hindu 
Mahasabhaits are even braver than the Congressites even if going to jail is to be taken as the 
only test of bravery and patriotism. The thousands of Hindu Sanghatanists who braved 'Lathi 
Mars' in the Nizam jails can surely stand the 'Laddu Mar' in the A, B, and even the C class in 
the British jails standing shoulder to shoulder with their Congressite co-sufferrers. If the 
Hindu Sanghatanists were only out to win elections with a view to form ministries and gain 
pelf and power, they could have very easily done it by changing a cap as so many other 
people have odne it. But, we chose deliberately to stand by Hindu interests even at the risk 
of power, pelf of popularity. As I am convinced that the great facilities which we have 


Page 91 of 130 



Hindu Rashtra Darshan 


secured and are sure to secure on a larger and larger scale for militarization and 
industrialization of Hindudom by participating in the war efforts of the Government are 
overwhelmingly more beneficial to the Hindus than any issue we can win by any slogan 
shouting civil resistance, I am quite prepared to lose the next election also. It is more 
patriotic to lose an election in trying to lead the electorate on a right path than to win it by 
pandering to their prejudices and follies. 

The Government has in fact met the demands put 

forward by the Hindu Mahasabha at the outbreak 
of the war in a substantial measure 

I must make it clear here that the demands forwarded by the Hindu Mahasabha were 
not slighted by the Government. We asked them to make a declaration that within one 
year's time after the cessation of the war Dominion Status should be granted. Now, the 
Viceroy and the Secretary of State have both made it clear so far as words can make it clear, 
that India shall be raised to the position of a self governing unit of the commonwealth which 
they call British but i claim must be called Indo-British, on equal footing even with Great 
Britain herself immediately after the war at the shortest interval possible. We wanted a word 
and they have given us a word. We know that the taste of the pudding is in its eating. But, 
then the question can arise when the promise is to be translated into action. Secondly, we 
wanted a declaration from the Government that they would not encourage the scheme of 
breaking up the integrity of the Indian State. As I have shown above under the pressure of 
the Hindu Mahasabha alone, Mr.Amery has made a clear declaration to that effect in his 
speech on 'India first'. So far as our military demands were concerned, they are almost all 
being acted upon in a large measure at least up till now. The military service is thrown open 
to all castes and creeds alike and other facilities. We have got are already dealt with in other 
parts of my speech. The Hindu Mahasabha is already recognized by the Government as the 
foremost representative body of the Hindus. The only point on which the Government is still 
harping is the fact that they are throwing the responsibility of framing a constitution on the 
Indians and insisting with their tongue in their cheeks 'unless you all Indian parties, the 
minority and the majority, produce a compromise unanimously voted for, we cannot thrust 
any constitution on you of our framing.' But we shall fight out this spacious argument in 
right time. Nay, there is every likelihood that on this point too, the Government will have to 
yield to the most reasonable demands of the Hindu Mahasabha. In short, I find no detail or 
issue important enough to compel us to resort to civil resistance at the sacrifice of the 
important facilities we have gained and the opportunity that has presented itself to us 
enabling us to effect the militarization of the Hindu people. 

Consequently, I, for one, recommend emphatically the following programme on which 
all Hindu Sanghatanists should concentrate their energy. Of course, I put it forward as my 
personal view and leave you entirely free to come to any corporate decision you choose, 
which decision I shall try my best to carry out as your chief executive officer, whether the 
decision coincides with my programme or not. I need not mention that this programme 
was already adopted by the Working Committee held on the 21 st of November last. 

I also make it clear that although I wish that the Hindu Mahasabha as an 
organization, should stick to this programme as its immediate line of action, yet if some 
Hindu Sanghatanists find out a more effective way of fighting on their own account for the 
Hindu cause, no one shall be gladder than myself. The Hindu Mahasabha also cannot but 
wish that the younger generation should prove braver than the present one. But it should 
prove wiser too. 


Page 92 of 130 



Hindu Rashtra Darshan 


This programme which I recommend for your adoption in my personal capacity is , of 
course, meant to be an immediate one. If some new factor arises demanding a new 
solution, we too shall promptly chalk out a different line of action in response to it. 


Immediate programme 

This immediate programme could be roughly outlined thus 

(a) To secure entry for as many Hindu recruits as possible into the army, navy and 
the air forces. 

(b) To utilise all facilities that are being thrown open to get our people trained into 
military and mechanical manufacture of up-to-date war materials. 

(c) To try to make military taining compulsory in colleges and high schools. 

(d) To intensify the organization of the Ram Sena. 

(e) To join the civic guard movement with a view to enable to defend our own people 
against foreign invasion or internal anarchy, provided always that the civic 
guards are not used against any patriotic political movements in India or in any 
activities detrimental to the legitimate interests of the Hindus. 

(f) To start new industries on large scales to capture the market where foreign 
articles to defeat the entry of new foreign competitors. 

(g) To boycott foreign articles to defeat the entry of new foreign competitors. 

(h) To set on foot an all-India movement to secure the correct registration, in the 
coming Census, of the popular strength of the Hindus including Tribal Hindus such 
as Santhals, Gonds, Bhils, etc., and to secure their enlistment as Hindus instead 
of as Animists or Hill Tribes and by taking every other step necessary to secure 
the object in view. 

These few items will suffice to illustrate the lines on which the Hindu Sanghatanists all 

over India should concentrate their attention in the near future. 


1.5 23 rd Session Bhagalpur—1941 

Comrades in the Hindu Cause, 

I acknowledge gratefully the honour you have done to me and the trust you have 
placed in me in offering the Presidentship of the All-India 

Hindu Mahasabha this year for the fifth time in an unbroken succession. I had even last year 
tendered my resignation of this high post twice and requested you all in view of my failing 
health and in the interest of the Hindu cause to spare me and to entrust the lead of the 
Hindu Mahasabha in some worthier and stronger hands. But owing to the most cordial 
pressure of my comrades all over India and the behest of the All-India Committee of the 
Hindu Mahasabha. I continued to shoulder the responsibility of the Presidential office and 
tried my individual best to justify and deserve the overwhelming confidence and love which 
the Hindu Sanghatanist world all over India and even outside continued to cherish towards 
me. It is a matter of public knowledge that this year also when the time for electing the 
President for the next year drew near, I had made it clear to almost all provincial leaders 
and workers that this time at any rate I should be allowed to withdraw from the Presidential 
panel. I was even determined to resign after the election,- but just then the Government 
made it clear that they were not prepared to raise the ban on the Annual Session of the 
Hindu Mahasabha at Bhagalpur. This Government ban compelled me also to banish 


Page 93 of 130 



Hindu Rashtra Darshan 


altogether from my mind the thought of resigning the Presidential office. This ban 
constituted such an intolerable, uncalled for and unjustifiable humiliation to the Hindu houour 
as to render it imperative on the part of every Hindu Sanghatanists to try his level best to get 
it removed by all legitimate means within his or her reach. My duty also as the elected 
President for the very session at Bhagalpur was clear. It was to stick to my guns. I have, 
consequently, consented even willingly to shoulder the responsibility of the Presidentship and 
the leadership of the All India Hindu Mahasabha for the fifth time for the ensuing year. May 
I be able to serve the Hindu cause to the best of my abilities and so unsparingly as to 
deserve the honour you have all done to me and the confidence you have all placed in me by 
calling upon me once again to lead the Hindu Movement. 

The case of this unjust, humiliating and even 
illegal Government ban 

When at Madura the last session of the Hindu Mahasabha decided to hold the Session 
in Bihar and when after surveying different places in Bihar, the Reception Committee decided 
to hold the Session at Bhagalpur, even the Government must admit that there could not have 
been any the least intention on the part of the Mahasabha to disturb the communal peace of 
the particular section of Moslems residing at Bhagalpur during the Bakr-ld festival. The Bakr- 
Id is observed all over India by the Moslems and there could be not any reason why the 
Hindusabhaits should have a special spite against the Moslems residing comparatively 
insignificant town of Bhagalpur of all places in India. But nevertheless after the venue was 
settled in the ordinary course of things and in view of other considerations and conveniences 
at Bhagalpur the Government of Bihar came out all of a sudden with a communique banning 
the Session and ordering that it must not be held in a number of districts in Bihar including 
the town of Bhagalpur from the 1 st of December next to the 10 th of J anuary 1942. 

The Government of Bihar argued that they would find it very difficult to maintain 
peace and order at Bhagalpur owing to the paucity of police forces at their disposal in case 
communal disturbances broke out during the Bakr-ld, if the Session and the Bakr-ld 
coincided. 

So far as the question of coincidence was concerned, the Working Committee of the 
Hindu Mahasabha having no intention whatsoever to give any justifiable excuse even to the 
aggressive section among the Moslems, decided in an accommodating spirit not to hold the 
Session on the dates during which the Bakr-ld was customarily observed at Bhagalpur and 
resolved that the Session should be held on the 24 th the 27 th December next during the 
X'mas holidays as had been the ususal custom with the Hindu Mahasabha to do for years in 
the past. This arrangement would have enabled the Mahasabha to end the Session a couple 
of days before the Bakr-ld began and let the Moslems alone to celebrate it in any fashion 
they chose. But the Bihar Government still refused to raise the ban on the ground that the 
holding of the Session even before the Bakr-ld and even if it was held on dates not 
coinciding with Bakr-ld was quite likely to inflame the communal tension and passions at 
Bhagalpur and prevent the peaceful celebration of the Bakr-ld festival ! But they did not 
seem to mind it much that there was more likelihood of communal passions being inflamed 
and of communal riots breaking out if the Bakr-ld was allowed to precede the Mahasabha 
Session and thus endanger again its being held just after the Bakr-ld. As a matter of fact it 
cannot be denied that it is the Bakr-ld which more often than not is notoriously associated 
throughout India with communal disturbances and Moslem fanaticism running riot. The 
Sessions of the Hindu Mahasabha on the contrary are as undeniably noted for their peaceful 
and orderly celebrations. But even the latest press communique issued by the Government 
of Bihar which modified the ban to the extent that it allowed the Session to be held just after 
the Bakr-ld after the 3 rd of January 1942, instead of the 10 th of January 1942, did not make it 
clear whether the Government would not renew the ban on the Session even if it was held 


Page 94 of 130 



Hindu Rashtra Darshan 


on the 4 th of January, in case some communal disturbances were staged during the Bakr-ld 
just to spite the Mahasabha Session to come. Consequently, whether the Session was held 
before the Bakr-ld or after the Bakr-ld, the necessity of facing the ban like the sword of 
Damocles was kept hanging on its head. 

So far as the second reason which was set forth by the Government to justify its 
attitude as to the paucity of the police forces at the command of the Bihar Government, it is 
enough to point out that the Government has more than once emphasized that in case an 
attempt to hold the Session was made in spite of the ban, the Bihar Government would put it 
down with all the resources at their command. Now if the Government is thus on its own 
admission so powerful,-and it is no doubt so powerful as to command sufficient forces to 
suppress an All-India Session of the Hindu Mahasabha which is likely to be attended by tens 
of thousands of Hindus along with the most outstanding Hindu Leaders form all parts of 
India,-can it ever be said that those very forces would not have enabled the Government to 
hold in check that aggressive section of Moslems at Bhagalpur, if there be any, which was 
likely to get inflamed and to threaten criminal disturbances if the Hindus were allowed to 
exercise their legitimate right of free association by holding the Session of the Hindu 
Mahasabha at Bhagalpur ? 

When the All-India Session of the Moslem League was held at Madras this year, the 
Government prevented the Hindus under Session 144 from holding meetings, carrying lethal 
weapons or assembling in more than five persons so that the Session of the League might 
pass of well in spite of the fact that rabid and anti-Hindu speeches and resolutions were 
delivered and passed in it. Now at Bhagalpur when the All-India Session of the Hindu 
Mahasabha is to be held, the Government instead of calling upon the Moslems to keep 
themselves within the bounds of law and order have put a ban on the Hindu Mahasabha 
Session itself making it criminal on the part of the Hindus to exercise their fundamental rights 
of citizenship ! 

Throught India the same discriminating, partial and anti-Hindu policy is adhered to 
and Hindu processions, immersion of image and conferences are held up to placate the 
fanatical goondiasm on the part of the aggressive Moslem sections. 

The reason trotted out for this anti-Hindu policy is also uniform : that it is the duty of 
the Government to maintain peace and order. 

But the peace or order which is to be maintained as a duty on the part of the 
Government is that which enables the iaw-obiding to exercise their legitimate rights and not 
that peace or order which could only be maintained by compelling the law-abiding to forgo 
their rights to piacare the aggressive and the criminal. 

The underlying idea which makes the Government resort to this policy throughout 
India cannot be any other than the notion that the Hindus as a people being gently and law- 
abiding are more amenable even to such humiliating and unjust restrictions on their liberty 
than the chanvinistic Moslems fanatics. 

The civic and even the religious festivities of Hindus, Christians and Parsees pass off 
so peacefully as to provide occasions for general rejoicing to people of all communities alike 
throughout India. But the Moslem festivals, whether civic or religious, like the Bakr-ld or the 
Mohurrum are almost always associated with bloody orgies and fanatical anti-Hindu riots. 
Not only the Hindus but all non-Moslem communities in India find them a source of constant 
and dangerous nuisance to life and property. The responsibility for this situation must be 
shared not only by the riotous. Moslem fanaticism but by the insane policy of the 
Government too, which almost always seeks to maintain peace and order on these occasions 
not by chastising Moslem fanaticism running riot but by calling upon the Hindu to forgo the 


Page 95 of 130 



Hindu Rashtra Darshan 


exercise of their legitimate rights of citizenship and thus by putting a premium on fanatical 
goondaism. 

The ban placed on the Hindu Mahasabha Session at Bhagalpur is also justified by the 
Government with unabashed frankness by stating that they had to do so for no other urgent 
or justifiable reason, but to enable the Bakr-ld festivities of a handful of Moslems in a solitary 
town like Bhagalpur to pass off well. If the Session of the All-India Hindu Mahasabha is held 
before the Bakr-ld, the Government contention is that even this legitimate exercise of the 
right of association by the Hindus may inflame communal passions of the Moslems ! If the 
Govenrment suspected such a contingency, it was their duty to take every precaution to hold 
in check and chastise this aggressive and intolerant fanaticism that gets inflamed at the sight 
of the exercise by other communities of their legitimate rights. The Christians who are to 
celebrate their X'mas during those very days, never get inflamed at the sight of a number of 
All-India Conferences held by the Hindus and other communities throughout India. But on 
the contrary these Christian holidays like the Hindu holidays provide special facility for such 
All-India Sessions. It is only the insane policy of the Government to placate Moslem 
goondaism that has rendered the Moslem fanatics so irascible and intolerant. At Nellore, for 
example, the very Government law courts have openly confessed their inability to compel the 
executive to abide by and carry out their legal orders in connection with Hindu rights. A 
Government whose executive refuses to carry out the decisions of its own law courts and 
will not protect the civic rights of the Hindus held valid by the law courts when they are 
opposed to the fanatical whims of the Moslems for the only reason that otherwise that 
fanaticism would break out in riotous orgies must be said to have lost all legitimate and 
moral right to govern at all. 

In addition to this unjustifiable nature of the ban its legality also is seriously 
questionable. Whatever powers are to be exercised by the Provincial Governments in order 
to maintain public safety and order under the Defence of India Act are to be exercised, 'For 
the purpose of securing the Defence of British India' and in case 'such exercise is called for, 
for the efficient prosecution of war.' Now, by no stretch of imagination can the Government 
maintain that the Session of the All India Hindu Mahasabha is likely to disturb public order or 
endanger public safety with a view or in a manner of standing in a way of the efficient 
prosecution of war or the securing the Defence of British India. Add to this fact that of all 
outstanding All-India organizations, the Hindu Mahasabha alone has been the foremost 
advocate of extending responsive co-operation to the British Government as this war in so far 
as the question of Indian defence is concerned. Almost all of its prominent leaders and 
workers have been touring round throughout the country calling upon the Hindus to join the 
military forces of all arms and thousands of ite members have already secured entry in the 
Army, Navy and the Aerial Forces with a genuine desire of co-operating with the British Force 
in a responsive spirit in as much as the Hindu interests too under the present circumstances 
dictate such co-operation. Their could not be, therefore, cannot be said to be covered by the 
Defence of India Act and consequently the ban that is placed on this Session under this Act is 
ab initio illegal. This legal view taken by some of the foremost lawyers in the land proves 
that the Government of Bihar has not only committed a political blunder, but even a legal 
one. 


The Mahasabha has consequently resolved to hold its Session at Bhagalpur itself on 
the scheduled dates in spite of this unjust, humiliating and illegal Government ban, in 
assertion of the civic rights of citizenship in general and of Hindus in particular. The time has 
come when the Hindus must correct the erring notion under which the Government lahours 
that Hindus can be made to tolerate any aggression on their civic and religious rights and can 
take all kicking more kindly than the chauvinistic Moslem fanaticism and that this is the 
cheaper way of maintaining the so-called peace and order. The Hindus must now learn to 
record practical protest against any such anti-Hindu policy on the part of the Government or 


Page 96 of 130 



Hindu Rashtra Darshan 


on the part of any one else whenever and wherever such cases humiliating to Hindu honour 
crop up, by all legitimate means within their reach even if in this their attempt to exercise 
their legitimate and fundamental rights of citizenship, the Government at times threatens 
most unjustly and illegitimately to cow down the Hindus by flourishing the police budgeon in 
their face. 


We go to B hag a I pur not to Challenge the Government 
but to assert our legitimate rights 

Nevertheless, I must make it clear that the Mahasabhaits are going to Bhagalpur to 
hold this Session-even if the ban is not raised in time,-not with any the least desire to throw 
a challenge to the Government or to flout the legitimate authority in any wanton manner. 
We shall all rally round the pan-Hindu flag raised at Bhagalpur with the only object of 
asserting our civic rights of free association. We shall give no justifiable reason wharsoever 
to inflame any communal passions or do anything beyond asserting our inalienable civic 
rights without trespassing on those of other communities in the interests of peace and order 
which when interpreted in an impartial and constitutional sense, the Hindu Mahasabhaits are 
as anxious as the Government to maintain. Even if we are banned and opposed by physical 
force on the part of the Government, we are all determined to offer ourselves to get arrested 
or to face the worst without any show or use of physical resistance to the Government 
authorities on our part, beyond the civil resistence implied by our assertion again and again 
of our legitimate right to continue the Sessional activities. 

I earnestly hope that in as much as the cause the Hindu Mahasabha is going to fight 
out at Bhagalpur, is essentially the cause of civic liberty so far as the question of resisting, 
with all legitimate means, this ban is concerned-not only all Hindus irrespective of party 
affiliations but even our Christian, Parsee and Jewish countrymen, in fact every Indian citizen 
who values the casue of the fundamental right of citizenship of free association and realises 
that the Government policy of bribing fanatical goondaism at the cost of legitimate rights of 
honest and law-abiding citizens constitutes a common danger to all citizens alike, will extend 
their sympathy and co-operation and strengthen the hands of the Hindu Mahasabhaits in 
this their struggle to assert the fundamental rights of citizenship on an issue which is of 
common interest to all Indian citizens alike. 

I have no doubt that if but the Hindu Sanghatanist muster strong at Bhagalpur from 
all parts of India and fight out this campaign of civil resistence within the legitimate bounds 
indicated above with a heroic determination counting no imprisonment, lathi charges or any 
sacrifice whatsoever as too high a price to pay for maintaining the houour of the Pan-Hindu 
Flag and without giving any the least illegitimate cause on their part for any breach of 
honourable peace, genuine civic order or malicious communal tension,-this 23 rd Session of 
the Hindu Mahasabha is bound to prove the most successful Session of all the Sessions in the 
past. 


As it seems more likely than not, that this speech will not be formally read in a 
formally assembled Session at Bhagalpur and also because there is no time now left to write 
it at full length I mean to touch only a few categorical points to serve as finger posts at cross 
roads to guide the Hindu Movement in the near future. 

Loyal Homage to His Majesty the King of Nepal 


Page 97 of 130 



Hindu Rashtra Darshan 


I tender on behalf of Hindudom as a whole our most loyal homage to his Majesty the 
King of Nepal as a defender of the Hindu Faith, the Sovereign of the only Independent Hindu 
Kingdom today, the foremost representative of the glorious Hindu Past and the Hope of still 
more glorious Hindu Future. Fortunately, for the Hindus, the Government of Nepal has today 
at its helm a personality in whose hands the Hindu interests are bound to be safe. His 
Highness the Maharaja Yudhasamsher J ang Bahadur, the present Prime Minister of Nepal 
realizes more than any one else that the future of the Hindu Kingdom of Nepal is indissolubly 
bound up with the future of Hindudom as a whole. Hindus in fact are a National unit and it is 
given to Nepal today to shape its destiny. The war opend out immense possibilities before us 
even if it threatens to surround us on all sides with imminent dangers. Keeping the ultimate 
goal of Hindu regeneration full in view, it was no doubt wise under the present circumstances 
that the Hindu Kingdom of Nepal should have chosen to ally herself with the British 
Government during this war and sent our brave Goorkha armies to protect Indian Frontiers 
and to some other theatres of war to check new alien invasions. The British Government too 
would do well to recompense for this effective assistance they receive at the hands of His 
Majesty the King of Nepal by restoring to Nepal at least those district in Bihar and on the 
borders of the Punjab which were a part of the Kingdom of Nepal only a century ago and 
were then annexed by the British. 

It is encouraging to note that the land-forces of Nepal are already so efficient and up- 
to-date as to match the forces of any Nation in the world in warlike qualities and dogged 
resistance. But we are anxiously waiting for the day when even the aerial forces of Nepal 
will be as efficient, up-to-date and powerful enough to protect not only herself but even 
Hindudom as a whole. Nepal is exposed to aerial attacks as seriously as any of the Eastern 
provinces of India. The war which has already touched the Indian shores constitutes at once 
a danger and an opportunity and I am confident that the virile and far-signted Prime Minister 
of Nepal will take time by the forelock and equip Nepal with a powerful aerial force at no 
distant date. 

The second point to which I want to attract the attention of the Government of Nepal 
may seem comparatively less urgent but is nevertheless far from being negligible. From 
sources which are more or less reliable it seems that the Moslems are trying to make their 
influence felt and numbers increased in Nepal by adopting their usual tacties of stealthy and 
treacherous advances. Mosques are multipling rapidly in Nepal and the numbers of unwary 
Hindu girls and lads are being kidnapped or duped in surrounding tribal districts and 
ultimately converted to Mohammedanism. There are more ways than oneby which a well- 
planned scheme of increasing the numerical strength of the Moslems in and about the Hindu 
Kingdom is long being worked out. I urge the Government of Nepal to be as alert as possible 
and not to minimize this danger to the strength and stability of Hindus in the Kingdom. 
Mosques are first built as houses of prayer but they soon develop, as we have found in so 
many cases all over India, into hot-beds of anti-Hindu fanaticism. The campaign of 
kidnapping and abduction does on the face of it seem a stray outburst of individual crime. 
But then if history has anything to teach us Hindus, it teaches us that it was by these means, 
howsoever despicable they may seem, that the Moslems continued and are even now 
continuing to increase their numerical strength and strengthen their hold in India. If a Hindu 
King allowed Mosques to be built he was first flattered as a magnanimous soul who loved all 
religious and races alike. But the time has come that we Hindus should despire this species 
of magnanimity as nothing short of suicidal madness. It was owing to this malady of 
magnanimity that our ancient Hindu Kings allowed foreigners from all parts of the world into 
Hindusthan and even treated them as our own kith and kin and granted them protection and 
status equal with our own Hindu brethren. And now the staggering results stare us in the 
face. The erstwhile guests are threatening to oust the master of the house himself, out of it. 
Consequently, the Government of Nepal should make it clear to all concerned that no anti- 
Hindu activity or designs would be tolerated in Nepal and should watch ceaselessly so as not 


Page 98 of 130 



Hindu Rashtra Darshan 


to allow any non-Hindu section and especially the Moslems to grow in numerical strength in 
Nepal beyond what it recorded a century ago. 

The Hindu Mahasabha Movement advancing with 
strides of a Giant 

Taking stock of events during the last year it can be incontrovertibly asserted that the 
Hindu Movement led by the Mahasabha has progressed throughout India. The Shuddhi 
work, the effective and successful efforts to remove untouchability, the census campaign it 
conducted throughout India, the defending of the civic and religious rights of Hindus at 
hundreds of localities, facing and even foiling the wave of armed aggression on the part of 
the Moslems intheir campaign of the so-called Pakistan riots through a larger part of India 
and proving it to those anti-Hindu forces that even their bloody orgies cost themselves 
dearer and could never succeed in browbeating the Hindu movement, the successes in 
scores of electoral contents to the Central Assembly and to the local Municipalities or boards 
which the Mahasabhaits won in Maharashtra, Assam, Bengal, and in several other parts of 
India and even the couple of electoral defeats the Mahasabha had to undergo as the one in 
Berar,-do all of them point out incontrovertibly that the Mahasabha is rapidly growing into a 
power that could no longer be underrated with impunity and that it has already grown 
formidable enough to hold in check the anti-Hindu forces that had been let loose on India 
and ran riot unchallenged during the last fifty years or so. But the crosning achievement of 
the Mahasabha movement has been, more than these direct and detailed events, the indirect 
influence which its ideology and propaganda exercised on the Hindu mind to such an 
amazing extent as could only be fitly described as a mental revolution. The unparalleled 
enthusiasm displayed by crores of Hindus, classes and masses together with which they 
welcomed the President of the Hindu Mahasabha and several of its veteran leaders in all 
quarters of the country and which enthusiasm found its fittest expression, rending the air day 
in and day out, in that million-million throated 'Hindu-Dharam ki Jay; Hindusthan Hinduonka 
!!' proved to demonstrate that the Hindus as a people have shed that inferiority complex 
which had been their greatest curse inflicted by themselves upom themselves and that they 
have returned to their National self-consciousness as Hindus. This mental revolution could 
not have found a better expression to voice forth its significance than that 'Hindusthan 
Hinduonka !!' 

This awakening of the Hindu spirit which the Mahasabha movement brought about 
has already been able to effect breeches even in Congress citadel from within and thousands 
of those Congressite Hindus who had altogether forgotten that they were Hindus under the 
baneful influence of the Pseudo-Nationalistic opiates of the Gandhist school of thought are 
already searching their hearts and are blessing the Mahasabha in their innermost hearts for 
fighting for the Hindu casue and are sooner or later destined to fall as willing captives into 
our hands. This inndirect effect of the Mahasabhaits propaganda has already compelled 
those very Congressites who blamed the Hindusabhaits for calling upon the Hindu electorates 
to vote for those who pledged to safeguard Hindu interests and for thus rendering the 
elections tainted with communalisnvto assure the Hindu electorates that although they 
stood on Congress ticket, yet they were nevertheless Hindus of Hindus and would not yield 
to the Hindu Mahasabhaits candidate is safeguarding Hindu interests !! No compliment to 
the efficacy of the Hindu movement can be more convincing than these appeals by Congress 
candidates to the Hindu electorate; even if they be for the time being meant only to capture 
Hindu votes. 

The time is fast approaching when the Congress will either be but a plank of the 
Hindu Mahasabha or get compelled to shut its shop altogether which deals in wholesale 
representation, by foregoing the right to represent the Hindus directly or indirectly. 


Page 99 of 130 



Hindu Rashtra Darshan 

The Moslems must get satisfied with representation 
in proportion to their population only 

The third outstanding achievement of the Hindu Mahasabha has been that it has 
already proved to be a formidable opponent to the inordinate ambitions of the Moslems in 
general and the Moslem League in particular. 

Whether it be the question of the extension of the Executive Council or the formation 
of the National Defence Council or the Defence Advisory Committee, the Moslem Leaguers 
have themselves admitted that they have been discomfited and their swollen headed claims 
left unheeded. Mr. Jinnah resents that Mr. Amery should have betrayed him in not keeping 
up the Government 'Promise' of not turning down the full-fledged Pakistan scheme and 
should have even gone to the length of delivering Sermons on 'India First.' In Bengal Mr. 
Huq who only last year kept roaring like a 'tiger' that he would 'Sataenga' the Hindus is 
already so cowed and chastened as to talk sense and prefer to join hands with the Hindu 
Mahasabha even at the risk of getting a divorce from the Moslem League. Nor did Sir 
Sadullah Khan fare better in assam and was compelled to resign his Premiership overnight. 
The so-called League Governments in these provinces having tumbled down like a house of 
cards it was but natural that the Moslem League should have found himself left in the lurch 
and its bolated ambition fallen flat to the ground. 

It cannot be denied that it was largely due to the formidable opposition of the 
Hindusabhaits that the League thus finds itself today discomfited and foiled on all sides. Nor 
does the future hold out any more hopeful prospect before it in view of the fact that the 
Hindus are every day getting influenced more and more by the ideology of the Hindu 
Mahasabha and are consequently bound to get more and more consolidated and powerful to 
present a united Hindu front to all anti-Hindu aggression. 

The war also has belied the hopes of the Indian Pan-Islamite. Only in last April when 
the Moslem League held its Session at Madras, Mr. Jinnah warned the Government and the 
Hindus that if they did not do what he wanted them to do 'others would come to India and 
do it and break up Hindusthan into a conglomeration of Pakistans'. Other 'notable Moslem 
leaders too asserted in continuation of the threat that their great Moslem Nations across the 
border of I ndia were there and thus would not hesitate to join hands with them as the I ndian 
Moslems looked upon them as their destined deliverers from the yoke of the Hindus in India. 
But unfortunately out of these 'others' or these 'Our great Moslem Nations beyond the 
borders of India' none now can be found at the station. During the last war the Ex-Amir 
Amanullakhan was to play the part of the destined deliverer of Islam in India and with the 
treacherous connivance of Gandhiji, the two great 'Nationalists' leaders the Ali brothers 
conspired to bring him to Delhi as the would-be annointed Emperor of India. But 
unfortunately a Baccha-i-Saku, a son of water carrier finished the Ex-Amir and the would-be 
Emperor of India. If this time our Moslem leaders at Madras meant by the 'others' Raza 
Shaha of Iran who was then hand in glove with the Nazis and expected him to play the part 
of the next best Deliverer of our Indian Moslems from the majority tyranny of the Hindus, 
then now his address also is not quite known and instead of booking for India he seems to 
have taken a wrong train to Mauritius. Instead of playing the part of the Deliverer of Islam 
in India, poor Persia is desperately searching now for a deliverer for her own sake. The 
Turks are but literally sandwitched between the German and the British forces and they 
themselves do not know what would be their fate tomorrow and have only a Hobson's choice 
before them,-to surrender to one of these advancing forces. Still if of those 'others' who 
were to do for the Moslems what the Hindus refused to do and cut up India to order after 
the Pakistan fashion, any Moslem deliverer is yet willing and able ot do the task,-we shall be 
glad to be enlightened by the League as regards his present destination and address. Can it 


Page 100 of 130 



Hindu Rashtra Darshan 


be that His Exalted Highness the Nizam of Hyderabad is the next aspirant to that high office ? 
If so, then all that we can do is to exclaim, 'If these be thy Gods, Oh Israel !!' 

On the whole the time has come when our Moslem countrymen should realize that 
even in their own interests they should accept the inevitable and should cease amusing 
themselves with airy nothings. They must count with realities, they must know that they are 
in a minority and that there is not the slightest chance now left for them to reduce the 
present majority of the Hindus in any appreciable measure. The Suddhi movement and the 
virile awakening that has come over the Hindus have disarmed forcible or fraudulent 
conversion to Islam in India once and for all. Even if an Allauddin or an Aurangzeb comes 
down again, he would not be able to convert permanently and from generation to generation 
a dozen Hindus by force or fraud. Take the latest case of such forcible conversions in Bengal 
during the Dacca riots this year. In a number of villages hundreds of Hindu families were 
forcibly 'converted' to Islam and the Moslem rioters fancied that those villages were then 
permanently annexed to Pakistan as used to be the case in reality some two centuries ago. 
But then no sooner were the riots put down than did the Moslems find to their utter dismay 
that all the 'converted' Hindus were shuddified in no time and went to their Hindu fold more 
intensely Hinduised and more bitterly opposed to Islamite persuasion and practices. If but 
this factor is once clearly and definitely realized, it follows inevitably that the Moslems in 
India cannot but continue a minority and must frame their political programme accordingly. 
They cannot expect a single seat more either in the Legislature or in Government Cabinets 
than what their population strength today entitles them to have and so far as their claim of 
cutting off the Punjab and other provinces from India to form them into Pakistan is 
concerned, well, they should take it as feasible or otherwise as the claim of the Hindus of 
annexing Afganisthan to Hindusthan once again so as to extend the boundaries of Hindudom 
right up to the Hindukush !!! 


Our immediate Programme 

Without touching the day-to-day activities in hundred and one directions which the 
Hindu Mahasabha branches have to carry on all over the country in connection with Shuddhi, 
removal of untouchability, meeting the local needs and suppression of the local grievances of 
the Hindus at every town and village, the routine of propagandistic work, the conference, 
meetings, tours, and such all other organizational and Sanghatanist activities, I want to 
emphasize here categorically the only two most outstanding and urgent items on which for the 
next few years all Hindu Sanghatanists must concentrate their attention and their energy. The 
first of these items constitutes the electoral plank of the Hindusabha platform and the second 
the militarizing one. 

The Hindu electorate must vote for those Hindus who stand openly on a Hindu Mahasabha 
ticket under the Hindu Flag and pledge to guard Hindu interests. Thereby alone they will 
invest the Hindu Mahasabha with an undeniable status as the first and the foremost 
representative body of the Hindus and the Hindus would be able to capture whatever political 
power there exists today and is bound to be secured in future in the legislatures. Inless and 
until the Congress is not deprived of the right of representing the Hindus in the Legislatures, it 
is dead certain that the special interests of the Hindus and the Hindus must go to the wall in 
the long run. 


There is Pan-Hindu Issue involved in every 
electoral contest 

So long as the electorates are based on communal distinction the Hindus can never 
have their special interests and aspirations represented in the Legislatures unless and until 


Page 101 of 130 



Hindu Rashtra Darshan 


they elect only those candidates who stand on a clear-cut Hindu Mahasabha ticket, who owe 
no allegiance to any organization which is not pledged wholly and solely to safeguard and 
promote the special interests of the Hindudom as a whole. To the Hindus all over India, there 
can be no distinction between the so-called national interest and the Hindu interest. Because 
what is after all the ideology the Hindu Mahasabha represents ? 

Independence of India, indivisibility of India, representation in proportion to the population 
strength, public services to go by merit alone and the fundamental rights of freedom of 
worship, language, script, etc., guaranteed to all citizens alike are some of the basic principles 
on which the Hindu Mahasabha takes its stand. It realizes that the best interests of the Hindus 
themselves demand under the present circumstances that the Indian Nation and the Indian 
State should be based on these fundamental foundations. 

The conception of any genuine Nationality also, that takes no accounts of any 
communal or creedal super-arrogations into consideration, can go no further. That is why the 
Hindu Mahasabha claims that there can be no conflict or clash between Hindu interests and 
interests of the I ndian Nation as a whole. 

The Hindu Mahasabha seeks not an inch more than what is legitimately due to it or 
than what it is willing to concede to all non- Hindu minorities in India in strict proportion to 
their population strength. But it follows from this very just and legitimate conception of true 
Nationalism that the Hindu Mahasabha should not yield an inch of what is legitimately due to 
the Hindus on ground of National equity to the Moslems or anyone else simply because they do 
not happen to be Hindus. But the Congress, the Forward Bloc and all such organizations in 
India have sinned against this conception of real Nationality under false notion of geographical 
Nationality. They have a set ideology and policy which raise betrayal of Hindu rights to the 
pedestal of patriotic virtue ! To prove that they are above communal level the Hindu leaders 
and followers belonging to these organizations hesitate even to claim themselves as 
representatives of Hindus ! 

But perversely enough they do not hesitate to seek elections at the hands of 
communal electorates ! They thereby betray both their National labels as well as the interests 
of the Hindu electorated who elect them to represent and guard the special rights of Hindus. 

If the Congress or the Forward Bloc do not want to call themselves as representative 
bodies of the Hindus alone and claim to represent the Indian Nation as a whole, the only 
logical and honest policy for them would be not to seek election on behalf of the Hindu 
electorate alone as they invariably do at present. So long as the electorates are divided 
communally, these bodies who call themselves National should refuse to stand for election on 
behalf of any of those communal electorates. They should wait till a real National electorate is 
ushered into being. 

But this double dealing and misguided policy on the part of the Congress or the 
Forward Bloc or any of these so-called National bodies have done an incalculable harm both to 
the Hindu interests and the National interests as well. The result of this Pseudo-Nationalistic 
error on the part of the Hindu Congressites with all its blocs and their heads left the Hindus 
entirely unrepresented as Hindus all around. 

On the other hand, the Moslem representatives in the Assembly, in the Board, at the 
Round Table Conferences and at all such vital centres get represented by the Moslem Leaguers 
or by those Moslems who are pledged to Moslem electorates openly and whole-heartedly to 
safeguard and promote Moslem interests even to an overwhelmingly aggressive degree. 


Page 102 of 130 



Hindu Rashtra Darshan 


And on the other hand the Congressites and the Forward Blocists and all such bodies 
duped by the Pseudo-Nationalistic mentality get themselves elected on behalf of the Hindu 
electorate as its representatives but when in the Legislature or in the Round Table Conferences 
or even in the day-to-day politics, etc., whenever questions of Hindu interests arise, they 
refuse to advocate the Hindu cause and even feel themselves insulted if the Government takes 
them as the representatives of the Hindu electorate. In the case of the partition of Sindh, the 
Communal Award, down to the question of Census this year when Mr. Kripalani declared that 
the Census being a communal question, the Congress had to do nothing with it, the Hindu 
interests were actually betrayed in hundreds and hundreds of cases by these Pseudo- 
Nationalistic organizations in spite of the fact that they got themselves elected on behalf of the 
Hindu electorates. I know it personally that some of the foremost leaders of the Forward Bloc 
were eager only last year to placate the Muslim League at a larger sacrifice of the Hindu 
interests then even the official section of the Congress did, so that anyhow they must 
represent to the Government a Hindu Muslim pact. The motives of the leaders of these 
Pseudo-Nationalistic organizations were above any personal interests and were even patriotic 
but patriots can also be befooled and betrayed into a suicidal policy. But whether their policy 
or their ideology be the cause, the results are what matters most to the Hindus who have been 
victimised and will continue to get victimized so long as the Hindu electorate persists in the 
suicidal folly of electing the dandidates who have pledged to the ideology and discipline of 
these Pseudo-Nationalistic bodies. 

It is not enough that some individual candidate on the Congress or Forward Bloc 
ticket, promises to safeguard Hindu interests, if he is elected by the Hindu electorate for the 
simple reason that he can never be in a position to do that in spite of himself so long as he is 
bound to the wheel of the Pseudo-Nationalistic Ideology and Policy and Discipline of his party 
whether it be the Congress or the Forward Bloc. 

I affirm that under these circumstances the most effective and the easiest way for 
those Hindus who feel that Hindudom has a right to be free, flourishing and powerful in this 
their own Fatherland and Holyland must elect only those representatives on behalf of the 
Hindu electorate who stand on the Hindu Mahasabha ticket and are consequently pledged and 
bound upcompromisingly to safeguard and promote Hindu interests under the lead of the 
Hindu Mahasabha. 

As shown above, the ideology and policy of the Hindu Mahasabha is genuinely 
national. Consequently, in electing the candidate on the Hindu Mahasabha ticket the Hindu 
electorate can serve and safeguard both their National interests in general as well as their 
special interests as Hindus in particular. In fact for a Hindu owning the Hindu Mahasabha 
ideology, there can be no distinction whatsoever between his Hindu interests and his National 
interests. 

But, in electing a candidate who is bound to the ticket of any of the Pseudo- 
Nationalistic bodies like the Congress or the Forward Bloc, the Hindu electorate is sure to run 
the risk of having the special interests of the Hindus knowingly or unknowingly betrayed and 
even the genuinely Indian National interests hazarded. 

I, therefore, call upon all Hindus to follow determinedly the only policy that can save 
them as effectively as possible under the present circumstances-the policy of electing as their 
representatives only those candidates who stand on the Hindu Mahasabha ticket or are backed 
by it. Thereby alone the Government will be compelled to recognise the Hindu Mahasabha as 
the only representative body of Hindudom as a whole and the Congress will be deprived of 
any legal or legitimate right to speak on behalf of the Hindus. 

The Government maintains that the Congress cannot represent the Moslems on the 
unchallengeable ground that the Moslem electorate never votes for a Congress candidate but 


Page 103 of 130 



Hindu Rashtra Darshan 


votes unfailingly for a Moslem who is pledged openly to guard Moslem interest and owes no 
allegiance to any Pseudo-Nationalistic body. Consequently, if the Hindu electorate which 
makes it a point never to vote for any candidate who stands on the Congress ticket or the 
Forward Bloc ticket or the ticket of any Pseudo-Nationalistic body, the claim of the Hindu 
Mahasabha to represent Hindu interests will be legally and legitimately established. These 
elections are a challenge thrown by the Government to the Hindu electorate to prove that 
Hindu Mahasabha represents them and the Congress can no longer sign any pacts like the 
Communal Award or the Pakistan that is threatening to come into being to the detriment of the 
Hindus. Conferences to frame the future constitution of India will soon be summoned. If the 
Hindu Mahasabha can pass the acid test at the polls all over India and has its candidates 
returned by the Hindus as their accredited representatives, the Government will be compelled 
to recognise the position of the Hindu Mahasabha on par with the Moslem League in these 
conferences. Then no Blank Cheques, no Communal Awards, no Pakistan Scheme, no 
weightages can be binding on the Hindus simply because the Congress signs them. The 
religious, the political and the economical interests, the culture, the language, the script, the 
honour and the whole future of the Hindu race and the Hindu Nation will be safe in the hands 
of the Hindu Mahasabha and no constitution or law or understanding can be binding on the 
Hindus unless and until it is signed by the Hindu Mahasabha. 

If but the Hindu electorate returns only the Hindu Mahasabhait representatives to the 
Legislatures, there will be in almost all provinces Hindu Sanghatanists Ministries formed, 
pledged to safeguard and promote Hindu interests openly and uncompromisingly and even in 
the Hindu minority provinces powerful Hindu Sanghatanists opposition parties in the 
Legislatures will be in a position to exercise an effective check on the Moslem Ministries to 
defeat their anti- Hindu aggressions. Consequently, I call upon the Hindus all over India to 
realise the significance of this Pan- Hindu aspect in all future electoral campaigns. 

The second most important and urgent item on which the Hindu Sanghatanists all 
over India must bend all their energies and activities is the programme for the militarization of 
Hindus. The war which has now reached our shores directly constitutes at once a danger and 
an opportunity which both render it imperative that the militarization movement must be 
intensified and every branch of the Hindu Mahasabha in every town and village must actively 
engage itself in rousing the Hindu people to join the army, navy, the aerial forces and the 
different war-craft manufactories. 

Japan's entry into the war against Britain and the United States need not cause any 
change in the attitude taken by the Hindu Mahasabha towards war effort calculated to 
contribute to Indian defence. The Hindu Mahasabha holds fast to the belief that, just as 
Britain, Germany, Italy, America or even Russia have gone to war with no altruistic aim but 
only in pursuance of their own national interests, Japan too proves no exception so far as the 
motive which drove her to the war is concerned. 

When every nation in the world is following the policy of self-interest and self 
affrandisement, India too must adopt a policy dictated solely by the interest of promoting her 
own interest, present and future. From this point of view, situated as we Hindus are at 
present, our best national interest demands that so far as India's defence is concerned, 
Hindudom must ally unhesitatingly in a spirit of responsive co-operation with the war effort of 
the Indian Government in so far as it is consistent with Hindu interests, by joining the Army, 
Navy and the Aerial forces in as large a number as possible and by securing an entry into all 
ordnance, ammunition and war-craft factories. 

Militarization and industrialisation of our Hindu nation ought to be the first two 
immediate objectives which we must pursue and secure to the best of our power, if we want to 
utilise the war situation in the world as effectively as possible to defend the Hindu interest. 


Page 104 of 130 



Hindu Rashtra Darshan 


Again it must be noted that Japan's entry into the war has exposed us directly and 
immediately to the attack by Britain's enemies. Consequently, whether we like it or not, we 
shall have to defend our own hearth and home against the ravages of the war and this can 
only be done by intensifying the Government's war effort to defend I ndia. Hindu Mahasabhaits 
must, therefore, ruse Hindus especially in the provinces of Bengal and Assam as effectively as 
possible to enter the military forces of all arms without losing a single minute. 

IV 

If but you act up according to these instructions, I guarantee Oh Hindus, that the 
future of our Hindu race, our religion and of our nation cannot fail to be even more glorious 
than our ancient past had been. These two steps which I have emphasized above : namely, 
by voting at the polls for the Hindu ticket alone and by not casting a single Hindu vote for the 
Congress to capture the political power and the Government machinery in the land that exist 
today and secondly to flood the army, the navy and the aerial forces with millions of Hindu 
warriors with Hindu Sanghatanists hearts-these two steps are but the first two steps and yet 
they shall give you such an immediate and high lift that at the end of the next five years you 
will find the political situation in India inevitably dominated by the Hindu thought, led by the 
Hindu hand, and more or less dictated by the Hindu will. 

The great war today has dwarfed all other issues and no one can say with certainty 
who will emerge successful out of this world chaos. But one thing can still be said as the most 
probable to happen that if but the Hindus stick to this immediate programme and take 
advantage to the fullest extent possible of the war situation with the Hindu Sanghatanist ideal 
full in view, pressing on the movement for the militarization of the Hindu race, then our Hindu 
nation is bound to emerge far more powerful, consolidated and situated in an incomparably 
more advantageous position to face issues after the war,-whether it be an internal anti-Hindu 
Civil War or a constitutional crisis or an armed revolution. 

Whatever, again, be the position and the fate of Nations after the war, today under 
the present circumstances taking all things together, the only feasible and relatively beneficial 
attitude which the Hindu Sanghatanists can take up is doubtless to ally ourselves actively with 
the British Government on the point of Indian Defence, provided always that we can do so 
without being compelled to betray the Hindu cause. 

If ever the saying was true that the darkest hour of the night is nearer the golden rise 
of the morn, it holds good today. The war that has approached our shores from the East and 
may threaten us in due course even from the West is a danger which may prove unparalleled 
in its magnitude, ravages and results. But it is also bound to break into a new day for the 
world and there are no signs wanting to show us that not only a newer but a better Order may 
ensue out of this world chaos. Those who have lost all may gain much in the end. Let us also 
bide our time and pray and act for the best. 




1.6 24 th Session Cawnpore -1942 

Delegates to and Members of the Hindu Mahasabha, 


Page 105 of 130 



Hindu Rashtra Darshan 


1. You have really overwhelmed me with kindness in appreciating my services, quite 
limited though they are, so highly as to elect me in an unbroken succession for the sixth time 
to the Presidentship of the All-India Hindu Mahasabha, the highest office of honour and duty 
which lies at the disposal of Hindudom today. If I too on my part do not shirk to accept this 
responsibility for the present, in spite of the most willing resignations tendered by me from 
time to time requesting you to relieve me of this post in view of my ailing health, it is only 
due to the fact that forces from outside the camp of the Hindu Mahasabha have actually 
been conspiring first to waylay the Mahasabha and then capture it by some crafty coup 
d'etat. Some of them try to browbeat it into submission, others are scheming to kill it with 
kindness and all of them want it to betray that Hindu ideology and those fundamental 
principles of independence and integrity of Hindusthan, the Holyland and Fatherland of we 
Hindus, which alone from both the charter and the vindication of its existence apart from and 
independent of the Congress, as the foremost representative organization of Hindudom as a 
whole. It is consequently the imperative duty of each and all of us Hindu Sanghatanists, on 
whom has fallen in this generation the duty to protect Hindudom and this Mahasabha, this 
holy shrine of our Hindu nation. To stand on guard at each of its gates and serve the post 
allotted to each with unswerving fidelity. It is this special emergency that has made me take 
up this post which you have all summoned me again to hold. 

2. Before I proceed, I must first take a rapid review of some leading events which 
happened during this year in connection with the Hindu Mahasabha so as to enable us to 
realise more precisely where we stand today and what should be our immediate programme. 

This year opened just when we were in the very thick of the Bhagalpur Civil 
Resistance Campaign. The most important aspect of the struggle which constitutes an 
abiding source of strength and self-confidence to our people is the fact that we Hindus could 
present a United Hindu Front and demonstrated beyond cavil or criticism that in spite of 
castes or creedsm sects and sections, Hindudom as a whole does still pulsate with a common 
National Being. That Pan-Hindu consciousness, which the Hindu Mahasabha has so long been 
striving to create, has at last become a living reality forceful and organized enough to resist 
and at times even to cow down the anti-Hindu forces, which held their sway unchallenged for 
such a long time in the past. From our esteemed leader Dr.Syama Prasad Mookerji down to 
those heroic souls, who laid their lives unknown to fame by name, thousands and thousands 
of Hindu Sanghatanists-Rajas and Raises, Millionaires and Millhands, Ex-ministers and 
M.L.A.'s, Sanatanists, Sikhs, Jains and Aryans-all rushed to Bhagalpur from every corner of 
India animated by the common urge to defend the honour of the pan- Hindu flag. The 
struggle was not restricted to Bhagalpur alone, but ultimately spread all over the six districts 
of Bihar which came under the ban and its shocks were felt throughout India. They faced 
lathi charges which were the order of the day. The armed mounted forces of the 
Government charged the processionists and civil resisters at various places trampling men, 
women and children under the hoofs of their horses. Organised firing was restored to in 
cities and towns and even villages. The Hindu civil resisters faced it all with unabated zeal in 
defending the honour of the Hindu colours and in winning the goal which was the objective 
at issue. There can be no exaggeration in proclaiming that the 23 rd Session of the Hindu 
Mahasabha held at Bhagalpur despite the Government ban proved to be the most 
momentous and the most successful one of all the annual Sessions held till then by any all- 
India organisation including the Congress in the modern history of India. 

I shall be failing in my duty, if I as the President do not express on behalf of this 
Session our deepest gratitude to all those who took part in the Bhagalpur Dharma Yuddha as 
soldiers in the spirit of crusaders, although the Hindu Mahasabha has nothing else to offer to 
mark its appreciation of their services but the crown of thorns of martyrdom to those heroes, 
who laid down their lives in the struggle and their very wounds to those thousands of 
soldiers who were wounded as the 'Iron Crosses' they won. 


Page 106 of 130 



Hindu Rashtra Darshan 


The second aspect of the struggle which must be noted here is the fact that it was 
fought in defence of Hindu rights as Hindu rights and under the unalloyed Hindu colours. 
The Nizam Civil Resistance Movement and this Bhagalpur campaign wherein millions of 
Hindus rose in protest against the humiliation of the Hindu flag drove the last nail in the 
coffin of that Pseudo-Nationalism which kept dominating the Hindu mind for the last 30 
years or so, had penalised any agitation to uphold any special rights of the Hindus as a 
'National' sin, throttled the Hindu voice, suppressed the Hindu spirit, reduced the Hindus to 
political orphans in this land. 

These struggles did also prove to all concerned that the Hindu Mahasabha was not 
only powerful enough to raise a mass movement of legitimate resistance on all- India scale in 
defence of Hindu rights but had a better tactical sense of timing them and conducting them 
strategically to an assured success. 

3. Within a couple of months of the cessation of the Bhagalpur struggle, the All-India 
Committee of the Mahasabha was held in February in Lucknow and passed off successfully in 
spite of the riotous opposition staged by the Moslem there. 

4. Then came the Cripps Mission at the end of March. The British Government had 
been for years feigning to believe that the Congress represented the Hindus, the Moslem 
Leauge represented the Moslems and consequently the political equation followed inevitably 
that the Congress and the League together representative all India. But in the meanwhile 
the Hindu Mahasabha had established itself so firmly as a new political power in the land 
challenging both the Congress and the League, whenever Hindu interest demanded it, that 
the British Government had to recognise the Mahasabha, by the time Crippe Mission came, 
as one of the three outstanding All-India Organizations and as the foremost addredited 
representative body of Hindudom as a whole. To the Congress and many other parties and 
leaders, the Cripps scheme seemed at first sight sufficiently alluring to undertake a hopeful 
survey to discover confidently some oasis in that political Sahara. It was the Hindu 
Mahasabha alone which publicly declared just at the first glance of the scheme that Sir 
Strafford wanted really to play to the American gallery and carried on those endless 
negotiations with the Indian politicians just to make them play the tune he called. Not only 
that but the Mahasabha unerringly and immediately discerned and pointed out the cloven 
foot concealed under a heap of roses on which the scheme rally stood. It was the clause 
laying down the condition that the declaration of freedom of India could be made by Great 
Britain only if the Hindus admitted the principle that provinces should be allowed to have the 
right of self-determination by their own majority to secede from the Central Indian 
Government and even to set themselves up as States independent of it. This clause 
constituted a veritable dagger aimed at the heart of the integrity of Hindusthan as an 
indivisible Nation and a centralised State. The Hindu Mahasabha rejected it unceremoniously 
and in rejecting the clause, it had to reject the scheme in toto. While all other parties 
including the Congress had tacitly accepted the clause and swallowing that camel, kept 
straining at the gnats of portfolios here and there, this total rejection of the scheme by the 
Hindu Mahasabha centralised at a stroke the attention of the whole Nation in general and the 
Hindus in particular on the real point that mattered most,-while the independence of India 
was still floating in the hazy clouds of promises alone, the integrity of India was in imminent 
danger of being stabbed in the back. The lead that the Mahasabha 

gave by rejecting the scheme at a stroke on this issue was followed after some fuss of 
negotiations by almost all parties in the land under this or that excuse. 

The Working Committee which was immediately held regarding the Cripps scheme 
reasserted in its resolution that in view of the rapid developments in the political situation in 
the world nothing short of an immediate and unconditional declaration of India's 


Page 107 of 130 



Hindu Rashtra Darshan 


independence could animate and enthuse the whole country to mobilise its full and willing 
fighting strength both in men and the materials to fight out the war which then would have 
been our own concern as truly as it was in the case of the British people. 

5. It was necessary to demonstrate that the Hindu Sanghatanists world was solidly 
behind the Hindu Mahasabha on these two fundamental points which compelled the 
Mahasabha to reject the Cripps scheme. It was, therefore, decided that an anti-Pakistan day 
should be observed throughout India by the Hindus under the pan-Hindu colours on the 10 th 
of May 1942, which being the anniversary of the National rising of 1857, had been annually 
celebrated by the Hindu Mahasabha as the Independence Day. Accordingly, this day was 
observed throughout India under the auspices of the Hindu Mahasabha with intense 
enthusiasm on an unprecedented scale. Jammu, Peshawar, Poona, Amritsar, Lahore, Delhi, 
Lucknow, Patna, Calcutta, Bombay, Nagpur down to Madras almost all capital cities and 
hundreds of towns and villages held innumnrable meetings which were altogether attended 
on that evening by millions and millions of Hindus who took up a public pledge to support the 
Hindu Mahasabha and to stand by the two fundamental principles on which it has taken its 
stand, the independence and the integrity of Hindusthan. Although the Moslems were 
conducting without let or hindrance a pro-Pakistan campaign and men like Mr. 
Rajagopalachari were allowed to preach vivisection of Hindusthan as freely as they liked, an 
illiegitimate and one-sided ban was placed on the anti-Pakistan demonstrations at places like 
Patna, Arrah and others on this all-India anti-Pakistan day. But the Hindu Mahasabhaits 
defied those unjust bans, took out their processions and held meetings even though 
hundreds of them got arrested for the only fault of asserting their basic civic rights. The 
determination with which Hindudom as a whole expressed on this day its uncompromising 
opposition to any scheme which involved the granting to the Provinces the right of secession, 
proved once more the strength of the hold the Hindu Mahasabha had come to exercise on 
Hindu mind and how it had thus established its right to represent genuine Hindi feeling far 
more correctly and effectively than the self-styled Indian National Congrress could ever do. 

6. The Congress, in the meanwhile, was rapidly on the other hand yielding to the 
pressure of the Moslems and had already got itself committed to the promise that it would 
not oppose the grant to provinces to secede if the Moslems insisted on it. As if the Moslems 
had not already insisted on it uncompromisingly enough to brow-beat the Congress itself into 
submission-Mr. Rajagopalachari in particular got simply possessed of the Pakistani spirit. He 
actually planned a triumphal tour to convert the benighted Hindus all over India to his new 
faith. He left Madras and selected his own presidency at the outset to infect with the 
Pakistani epidemic, but the Mahasabhaits were alert everywhere and gave him a hot chase 
throughout his tour from Madras to Bombay. Dharmaveer Dr. Moonje and Prof. 
Deshpande,-the indomitable champion of the Hindu cause who has only recently been 
arrested under the Defence of India Act,-were deputed to tour the Madras Presidency and 
there along with the veteran Hindu Mahasabhaits leader Dr. Varadrajalu Naidu, they 
dislodged Rajaji so completely from every platform that like the proverbial hare 'whom 
hounds and horns pursue,' even the redoubtable Rajaji, in spite of the obliging blessings and 
public sympathies of Gandhiji himself, had to return discomfited 'back to the place from 
whence at first he flew.' Since then he seems to have left the forum and taken to his table 
to busy himself with the more congenial task of issuing statements after statements to 
convince the benighted Hindus that the Moslem demands were just, the Pakistan was the key 
to Swaraj; two and two do not make four but five ! 

Just then the Congress had almost made it clear that it meant to start some kind of 
civil resistance movement, under the usual non-violent dictatorship of Gandhiji. The 
Hindusabhaits form all parts of India grew naturally anxious to know what attitude they 
should adopt towards this Congressite movement which was meant to order Great Britain 
straightway to 'Quit India' forthwith. Now, it was the duty of every Indian patriot and 


Page 108 of 130 



Hindu Rashtra Darshan 


especially of a Hindu patriot to join a movement which had for its goal the absolute political 
independence of Hindusthan. But the question of timing and the ways and means were also 
of outstanding importance. Even leaving it all aside, the goal to be achieved by any 
movement was the question of questions which must be decided to begin with. You must 
know before you go to fight the objective for which you have to fight. The Congress had 
made it crystal clear by that time that it was ready to agree even to vivisect India as an 
organic and centralised State in order to placate the Moslems and to persuade them to join 
the movement. Then again 'Quit India' was not the only demand which they advanced; but 
inconsistently enough they added to it a rider which demanded of Great Britain that though 
the British should leave India yet they must retain their British forces and even the American 
forces behind to protect India against the axis powers invading her. In short, the war- cry 
of the Congress movement came to ‘Quit India but keep the British army here and the 
Americans to boot !!' And the price of the movement for Indian Independence was the 
vivisection of Indian integrity !! Under such circumstances, it became quite necessary to 
clear up the issue before the Hindu Mahasabha got committed to any such movement, even 
though it was primarily meant for freedom of India which was the proclaimed demand of the 
Hindu Mahasabha itself on its own initiative. Consequently, I laid down the following 
conditions in my speech in a mammoth meeting in Poona on the Bajirao Maidan on the 2 nd of 
August, the report of which was broadcast and published not only in the Indian press but by 
the foreign press also, before the A.I.C.C.met in Bombay. 

The leading conditions were as follows (a) The Congress should guarantee the 
integrity of Hindusthan from the Indus to the Seas as an organic nation and an internal 
centralised State, (b) The Congress should, therefore, openly repudiate the granting of any 
right to the provinces to secede, (c) Representation in the legislatures, etc. should be in 
proportion to the population of the majority and the minorities, (d) Public services should go 
by merit alone, (e) That the Hindu Mahasabha should be recognized as the representative 
body of Hindudom and consequently no step shoud be taken affecting Hindu rights without 
its consultation and sanction, (f) All minorities should be given effective safeguards to 
protect their language, religion, culture, etc. but none of them should be allowed to create 'a 
state within a state' as the League of Nations put it, or to encroach upon the legitimate 
rights of the majority as defined above, (g) The residuary powers should be vested in the 
Central Government. 

Had the Congress agreed to these conditions the Hindu Mahasabha could have 
considered whether to co-operate with it on any reasonable lines of action. These conditions 
were so indisputably national that 'the Indian National Congress' in fact ought to have been 
the first instead of the Hindu Mahasabha, to proclaim them if it was genuinely and justly 
representing the Indian Nation as a whole. But the Congress refused stubbornly to have 
anything to do with these conditions. Nay, in their resolution at Bombay, the A.I.C.C. 
actually declared that the residuary powers shall be vested in the Provincial Government 
instead of the Central, in addition to the concession the Congress had already made to the 
Pakistanees of the principle of provincial self-determination to secede. The climax came 
when Gandhiji, after being proclaimed as the de fecto dictator of the Congress, wrote an 
authoritative letter to reassure Mr. Jinnah of his readiness to hand over the whole 
Government of India including the Indian States to the Moslem League. I quote the relevant 
passage from the letter itself 

'In all sincerity, let me explain it again that if the Moslem League co-operated 
with the Congress for immediate independence, subject of course to the provision 
that Independent India will permit the operations of the allied armies in order to 
check Axis aggression and thus to help China and Russia, the Congress will have no 
objection to the British Government transferring all the powers today exercises to the 
Moslem League on behalf of the whole of India including the so-called Indian India. 


Page 109 of 130 



Hindu Rashtra Darshan 


The Congress will not only not obstruct any Government which the Moslem League 
may form on behalf of the people, but will even join the Government. This is meant 
in all serioiusness and sincerity.' 


M. K. Gandhi 

Comments are superfluous. The betrayal of Hindu rights or genuine Nationality could 
have gone no further. Such a letter would have been burnt in protest from thousand 
platforms throughtout India by the enraged Hindu Sanghatanist world, had not restraining 
counsel prevailed in view of the patriotic objective at issue and had we not been passing 
through abnormal times. Were the Hindu Mahasabhaits deliberately to join a fight whose 
price and inevitable consequence was the vivisection of their own Motherland and Holyland ? 
Then again there were the tactical questions which were also of no less importance regarding 
the timing, the ways and the means and above all the effectiveness which we could depend 
upon on sane calculations. This was the crucial and fundamental issue which made the 
Mahasabhaits in general feel duty-bound not to identify themselves entirely with the 
Congress movement as it was then vaguely contemplated. 

Since then, of course, the Congressites themselves have been disowning avowedly 

their connection with the present wave of violent disturbances passing over the country. 

Consequently we need not take upon ourselves the responsibility of labeling it all as a 
Congress movement and the question of joining it or otherwise does not arise at all so far as 
the point under discussion is concerned. 

7. Then all of a sudden several hundreds of patriotic Congress leaders including 

Mahatma Gandhiji were arrested and later on a violent wave of popular discontent and 

governmental repression of it threw the whole country into turmoil. Today thousands of our 
Hindu brethren, Congressites and non-Congressites have already suffered or are suffering 
untold calamities from detention to death. They are all our kith and kin and our deepest 
sympathies cannot but go out to them in greatful appreciation of the fact that they have 
faced these sufferings from a patriotic motive or as the result of the patriotic struggle. 
Unscrupulous goondaism which is inevitably let loose in such great commotions cannot of 
course deserve any sympathy. But even the British Government or the British public could 
not but admit that the struggle was essentially the struggle of the people for the freedom of 
their country. If that be a guilt, then we have all been participating in it and are proud to be 
guilty of it. 

8. But patriotism itself demands that it is a national duty of all of us Hindus to see to 
it that sympathy with patriotic sufferings must bot be allowed to get the better of our 
judgement and drive us headlong and blindfolded on a path which we conscientiously believe 
to be detrimental to the best interest of our Hindu Nation. To make a common cause on a 
wrong issue or a line of action which is bound to lead to national disaster, simply to present a 
'United Front' is not the essence of patriotism, but amounts to a betrayal of national duty. It 
will be well of those who criticise the Hindu Mahasabha either through indiscretion or 
impudence for not following the Congress rightly or wrongly for the sake of Unity and 
because the Congress was actuated by patriotic motives, would do well to remember that 
patriots also are no exception to the general rule that it is human to err. Those who 
sincerely think that a particular line of action is detrimental to the Nation and therefore reject 
it and choose to serve it in the ways and with the means they are convinced to be more 
effective under the given circumstances to realise a common ideal, cannot be deemed on 
that ground only as less patriotic that those who acted otherwise. It is regrettable, however, 
that forgetting this fact, the Congressite press day in and day out have been trying to bring 
the Hindu Mahasabha into disrepute. Their criticism when reasonable and decent could be 
met by reasons given above. But the larger part of the Congressite press and propaganda 


Page 110 of 130 



Hindu Rashtra Darshan 


has thrown decency of criticism to the winds and is growing malicious and mad. In righteous 
defence of the Hindu Mahasabha such criticism must be challenged and checked. Some of 
these critics seem to be irritated at the thought that the leaders of the Hindu Mahasabha did 
not jump over the walls of the jail the very day Gandhiji and others were arrested for raising 
such a momentous cry as 'Quit India but keep your army here.' So far as the 'Quit India' is 
concerned, it is enough to point out that some of the outstanding Mahasabha leaders and 
followers today had been amongst those handful of revolutionists, who publicly raised the 
standard of Indian Independence for the first time in current History and rose in an armed 
revolt when Gandhiji and some of the present leaders of the Congress were singing Halle¬ 
lujahs to the British Empire, extolling its blessings and thinking it their duty as loyal citizens 
and subjects of that Empire to take its side against Zulus and the Boer who were fighting for 
their freedom. When further on as a consequence of their revolutionary activities, these 
Hindusabhaits of today had some of them to stand under the shadow of the gallows and 
others were under-going the sentences of transportation for life, rotting in Andamanese 
dungeous for decades on decades if we reason as you do now, were not the present 
outstanding Congress leaders including Gandhiji 'guilty' for not making a common cause with 
the revolutionists merely for the sake of 'United front'and for not seeking the gallows or 
getting themselves locked in the cellular jails in the Andamans ? Coming nearer, what have 
you to say regarding the Congress when it not only kept itself at a respectable distance from 
imprisonment but actually joined hands with the Nizam and took up a pledge 'not to 
embarrass His Exalted Highness' while thousands of Hindu Sanghatanists were carrying on a 
deadly struggle with the Nizam for the most legitimate rights of the Hindus and were facing 
lathi charges, imprisonment and tortures at at the hands of the Nizam's Government ? Far 
from sharing these sufferings with the Hindu Sanghatanists, were not the leaders and 
followers of the Congress strutting about as Ministers of provinces under the British Crown, 
some drawing fat pays, others rolling in the lap of luxury ? And what about Bhagalpur ? 
When for the defence of fundamental civil liberties of freedom of speech and freedom of 
association not less than one hundred thousand Hindu Sanghatanists carried on an active 
struggle with the Government of Bihar throughout the six districts which came under the 
ban, against all the forces which the Bihar Government could draw upon, firings, 
bayonetting, cavalry charges, not to speak of whippings, imprisonments etc.-did not the 
Congressites stand totally unconcerned and aloof without uttering a word of sympathy with 
the struggle for civic liberty which the Hindu Sanghatanists were carrying on against the 
foreign Government or of condemnation of that Government ? 

If they try to explain and justify this conduct on the part of the Congressites as not 
due to want of public spirit or to a lack of courage but due to an honest difference of opinion 
on patriotic grounds as to the line of action and principles which the Congress had with the 
Hindu Mahasabhaits and consequently attempt to justify the Congress on not presenting a 
'United front' at the cost of national good as Congressites interpreted it by joining the Hindu 
Mahasabha,-then they should have sense enough to perceive that that their justification 
holds good in the case of the Hindu Mahasabha too because they too did not like to be 
dragged as moral slaves by whatever the Congress resolution decreed or movements 
demanded. 

Similarly another argument which forms the stock-in-trade of the libellous criticism 
and propaganda of the Congressites with regard to the policy of the Hindu Mahasabha of 
occupying centres of political power, howsoever limited it be, springs back upon themselves 
and unlike the boomerang hits only themselves hard. The Hindu Mahasabha through its 
elected or supported representatives has now come to occupy responsible positions in 
political councils, committees, ministries, legislatures, municipalities and such other centres of 
political power and it is this fact which has pre-eminently contributed to the outstanding 
political importance which the Mahasabha and throughout India as never before. It is human 
that some of the unemployed Congressites should get irritated to find that so many of the 
'Jobs' should have fallen into other hands and should make them accuse the Hindu 


Page 111 of 130 



Hindu Rashtra Darshan 


Sanghatanists as mere 'Job-hunters'. We pity them for their irritation. But we cannot excuse 
them for making a virtue of necessity and go about posing as so many suffering saints who 
never cared a fig for these very worldly and servile 'Jobs'. 

For, was it not only the other day that the Congress from one end of India to the 
other went on such 'job-hunting? They agreed to act as Ministers-not as Kings! but servilely 
enough as ministers-to the Governors, who in their turn were servants of the British Crown. 
They, who now accuse the Hindusabhaits as helping imperialism took oaths of allegiance to 
the British Imperial Crown, accepted salaries, invited whole troops of their followers and 
hangers-on to get the loaves and fishes of the Offices, posts and positions distributed only 
among themselves. They could do only those things which the Governors permitted at their 
pleasure in the last resort. They laboured under the constitution which they had pretended 
to despise. Whenever they failed to satisfy this or that section of public they either pointed 
out to the limitations under which they held office or they sallied out firing and delivering 
lathi charges on those of their countrymen who disobeyed them or picketed them. If 
anybody fasted at their doors in protest of their actions they told him bluntly, 'You may lie 
there comfortably till you die, I must attend my office and do my duty as I choose.' Did not 
Rajagopalachari himself, the foremost of those ministers, who 'followed the Mahatma', tell 
the world in blunt accents in general justification of the actions of the Congress Government 
that the first duty of the Government was to govern ! 

Do you condemn the Congress for this 'job-hunting' and rough-riding? Or do you 
justify all this as patriotic ? Do the Congressites explain it all away on the ground that larger 
public interest demanded that even under limitations the Condtitution should be worked out 
to squeeze whatever public good you can get out of it ? If you say 'yes' to the latter, then in 
justifying yourselves you justify the Hindu Mahasabha too in its policy of capturing centres of 
political power, limited though it be to begin with and standing on that point of vantage, try 
to leap over and occupy more effective centres of power. 

The Hindu Mahasabha holds that the leading principle of all practical politics is the 
policy of Responsive Co-operation. And in virtue of it, it believes that all those Hindu 
Sanghatanists who are working as Councillors, Ministers, Legislatures and conducting 
Municipal or any public bodies with a view to utilise those centres of Governmental power to 
safeguard and even promote the legitimate interests of the Hindus without, of course, 
encroaching on the legitimate interests of others, are rendering a highly patriotic service to 
our Nation. Knowing the limitations under which they wrok, the Mahasabha only expects 
them to do whatever good they can under the circumstances and if they do not fail to do 
that much it would thank them for having acquitted themselves well. The limitations are 
bound to get themselves limited step by step till they get altogether eliminated. The policy 
of responsive co-operation which covers the whole gamut of patriotic activities from 
unconditional co-operation right up to active and even armed resistance, will also keep 
adapting itself to the exigencies of the time, resources at our disposal and dictates of our 
national interest. 

It must be remembered in this connection that if there be any Job-hunters' it is 
precisely these penny-a-liners who betray such a low taste in their ciriticism of the 
Mahasabha and happen to conduct the majority of Congressite second rate sheets and owing 
to that very fact are within easy reach of the masses. The majority of them, we all know, 
have not suffered a scratch throughout their life in any patriotic movement and would write 
for any other party if but they are more sumptuously paid. Many of them are actually known 
to have done so. It becomes inevitable, therefore, in defence of the Hindu cause that from 
time to time they too must be shown their proper place. 


Page 112 of 130 



Hindu Rashtra Darshan 


But I shall do injustice to myself if I fail to make it clear that my criticism against this 
type of a Congressite does not and cannot mean that all Congressites are equally blind to 
reason or are deliberately bent on harming Hindu interest or on humiliating Hindu honour 
which Hindus as they themselves are, cannot but be their own interest and honour. 

Nay, I know that many of these patriotic Congressite do actually appreciate the merits 
of the Hindu Mahasabha as well. Their racial pride as Hindus gets wounded whenever the 
Congress goes wrong and sacrifices the most legitimate Hindu interests and makes the 
Hindus undergo most cowardly surrenders. The very fact that thousands of the devoted 
workers and several all-India leaders, who have now rallied devotedly round the Pan-Hindu 
Standard had once been actively and prominently working in the Congress camp, is enough 
to bear out this truth that there are and must be thousand s of Hindus in the Congress camp 
who cannot bear to see the Hindu cause anathematised by the Congress but who 
nevertheless have not yet got rid of the habitual reluctance to get out of the Congress rut 
and come openly out of it. 

But this past experience makes me feel more or less confident that thousands 
of these of my Hindu brethren who are proud of their race, religion and this their 
Motherland of the Rishees and the Avatars, will have to leave the Congress before 
long through the very urge of their conscience and can find them but one path to go 
ahead in defence of Hindutva,-the path that leads to that Hindu Mahasabha Shrine. 

9. 

As soon as Congress was removed from the political field as an open organization under the 
Governmental ban, the Hindu Mahasabha alone was left to take up the task of conducting 
whatever Indian National activities lay within its scope. For to call upon the Moslem League 
to lead any Indian National movement would have rightly enough been taken as an insult by 
it just as to call the Congress a Hindu body was perversely enough used to be taken by it as 
an insult. For, India to the Moslem League was but a sub-continent, no Nation at all. But 
the Hindu Mahasabha believes in an integral Indian Nation even more intensely than the ' 
Indian National' Congress itself. The first National point that required immediate 
attention at that time was to expose the hollowness of the British propaganda which wanted 
the world to believe that the Cripps scheme failed not so much owing to the unwillingness of 
the British to part with power as to the internecine conflicts of the Indian people. The Cripps 
scheme was held dazzling before the world as a veritable Magna Charta conferring on India 
all that could be offered to liberate a people from political slavery and pointing out to it, the 
British press and propaganda called upon the world to witness how higher constitutions 
bestowed upon peoples not politically developed enough to deserve them serve only to 
worsen their condition. The glorious Magna Charta which wanted to invest India with full 
freedom proved only an apple of discord. As soon as political power was offered to the 
Indians, instead of receiving it as a United Nation, they sprang at each other's throat, 
community against community and their ancient civil feuds instead of being healed grew only 
fiercer. There was no United demand and had we not withdrawn that glorious Magna Charta 
in time, there would have broken up an immediate and bloody Civil War. Thus the British 
interpreted the episode to India and the world. 

That there was and continues to be communal disunity in India need not be denied. 
Every country had to pass through such phases including England and America. But the fact 
that it was the real cause of the withdrawal of the Cripps scheme was a lie and it had to be 
nailed to the counter, because the British had almost succeeded in duping America and China 
and even a section in India. The American public and the press which were sympathetic to 
some extent before the Cripps Mission changed their tone and admitted that England had 
done all she could and in all sincerity in granting full political freedom to the Indians and that 
it was really the internal discord amongst the Indians themselves that was responsible for the 
failure of the scheme. 


Page 113 of 130 



Hindu Rashtra Darshan 


Above all in India itself the Congress and the majority of the Hindus in particular 
laboured under this supposition that if but we could produce as National demand, a United 
Scheme, then it will be simply impossible for England to refuse to grant it. That is why the 
Congress often and often went on its knees before the League. That is why so many all¬ 
party and non-party conferences had been held. It was necessary, therefore even to cure 
the Indians themselves from this self-deception that some strenuous effort on an all-India 
scale had to be made. It was also advisable to find out how far the various parties in India 
did really differ and whether on the two or three questions which concerned all alike some 
National demand could be framed. It was with this objective in view that the Hindu 
Mahasabha decided to enter into negotiations with all important political parties and 
personalities on the three outstanding demands which Hindu Mahasabha had already framed. 
The immediate declaration of Indian Independence; a National Government with full powers 
during the war with the exception of the Military portfolio so far as the operative part was 
concerned and the holding of a constitution-framing assembly as soon as the war ceased : 
formed the leading clauses in this demand. 

A Special Committee was appointed to conduct these negotiations consisting of the 
President, Dr. Syama Prasad Mookerji, Dr. Moonje, Barrister N.C. Chatterji, Raja Maheshwar 
Dayal Seth, Rai Bahadur Meherchand Khanna and Prof. Deshpande. The response that the 
Committee received from different parties and eminent persons was encouraging and 
spontaneous. Under the able lead of Dr. Syama Prasad Mookerji on whom fell the real 
burden of carrying the negotiations, the Committee succeeded in creating such a wave of 
enthusiasm all over India that the public attention was centred on this topic only. 
Representatives of the English, the Ameriacan, and the Chinese press also took keen interest 
in the development and gave a prominent publicity in their countries to these efforts of the 
Mahasabha. 

The result also was not quite incommensurate with the troubles taken by the 
distinguished members of the Hindu Mahasabha Committee and of those Indian 
organizations and leaders who co-operated with them. Firstly, it was full of significance 
from the constructive point of view. For, the Committee succeeded in producing a National 
demand on the most crucial issues referred to above which could not but convince everyone 
but those who found it inconvenient to get convinced that India as a Nation demanded with 
a united will and voice the declaration on the part of the British Parliament that she should 
be recognized here and now as an independent Nation. When the Hindu Mahasabha-the 
second great all-India Hindu organization to quote Lord Devonshire, the present Under¬ 
secretary of State for India,-with the foremost leaders of our Sikh brotherhood, the President 
of the Momin Conference, and other Moslem organizations, the President of the Christian 
Federation, the Nationalist League, the Liberal Federation, along with the then Provincial 
Ministers of Sind and Bengal and scores of other eminent politicians who had been 
legislatures and administrators and held most responsible positions in the Government,-have 
signed or supported the demand that it had every right to claim for itself and to be 
recognised as being nothing short of a National demand. When you add to it the fact that 
the Congress resolution too had more or less emphasized the very items, its national 
character becomes unassailed. If it even be pretended that such a demand also falls short of 
a national demand only because the League or some such section chose to remain aloof then 
no demand ever made by any nation could deserve to be called a national one. 

It must be remembered that even the national plebiscites on the strength of whose 
demand the Canadian or the African or the American Fedrations were formed were not and 
could not be considered national or univocal on the sole ground that there was not a single 
citizen or single party opposed to them. Nay, the fact is that in all such national demands or 
plebiscites those who voted against them could also count their strength in thousands. A 


Page 114 of 130 



Hindu Rashtra Darshan 


national demand must always mean the demand of overwhelming majority of citizen or 
parties forming those nations,-irrespective of the dissentient minorities. 

When the Mahasabha succeeded in producing a definite demand signed by such an 
overwhelming majority it served to explode the British pretext and had a very salutary effect 
not only on that large section of Indians themselves but even on the Chinese, the American 
and the pro-British foreign press in general which had first acquitted the British to 
withholding freedom from India and believed that the chaotic disunity in India itself was 
really responsible for the withdrawal of the Cripps scheme. Many of them changed their 
opinion, saw through the game and came to the correct judgement that it was really the 
unwillingness on the part of Great Britain to let go her hold on India. 

As the President of the Hindu Mahasabha, I forwarded this national demand by a 
cable to the British Prime Minister, the Rt. Hon'ble Mr.Winston Churchill. I received an 
acknowledgement from him in which the Prime Minister wrote that he noted with 
appreciation the endeavours of the Hindu Mahasabha to promote unity among the several 
elements in Indian life, but observed that they had not so far resulted in any specific and 
constructive proposals enjoying the support of all the major parties. 

Comments need not be made on this reply as the question is already exhaustively 
dealt with above. Only one point needs to be touched. The only party in India worth 
mentioning as a major party that did not support the demand was the Moslem League,-not 
Moslems because we had large Moslem organizations signing the demand. If then, the 
failure, of the League to see eye to eye with all other parties in the land is to disqualify a 
demand from being national, then it only amounts to invest a fraction of a minority,with a 
power to veto the will of the overwhelming majority of the nation ! Of course, even the 
League must be knowing that the Prime Minister must have been talking with his tongue in 
his cheek when he referred to the League with such an awful indispensability ! If ever the 
League asks anything or supports anything which goes against the British interests even the 
League cannot be doubting that the Prime Minister will question its right to speak for the 
Moslems themselves. 

The negotiations were also useful to prove the falsity of the dishonest criticisms of the 
opponents of the Hindu Mahasabha including the Congressites that it being a communal 
organization could have no national programme or policy or could take no national lead. It 
was made clear that the Hindu Mahasabha was more national in its programme and yet less 
liable to fall a victim to weak-kneed vagaries like the Congress or to perverse communalism 
like the League. In practical politics also the Mahasabha knows that we must advance 
through reasonable compromises. Witness the fact that only recently in Sind, the Sind- 
Hindu Sabha on invitation had taken the responsibility of joining hands with the League itself 
in running coalition Government. The case of Bengal is well known. Wild leaguers whom 
even the Congress with all its submissiveness could not placate grew quite reasonably 
compromising and sociable as soon as they came in contact with the Hindu Mahasabha and 
the Coalition Government, under the premiership of Mr. Fazlul Huq and the able lead of our 
esteemed Mahasabha leader Dr. Syama Prasad Mookerji, functioned successfully for a year 
or so to the benefit of both the communities. Moreover further events also proved 
demonstratively that the Hindu Mahasabhaits endeavoured to capture the centres of political 
power only in the public interest and not for the loaves and fishes of the office. Witness the 
bold and eloquent statement issued by Dr. Mookerji when he threw away the portfolio the 
moment he saw that the Governor had made it impossible for him to serve the public and 
continue in the ministry with any degree of self-respect. 

10. Even though we do not contribute in the least to the forlorn hope that Americans, 
Russians or any other foreing nation will risk its own interest and take up cudgels to free 


Page 115 of 130 



Hindu Rashtra Darshan 


India on account of political justice or a high sense of humanity alone, still we cannot 
altogether dispense with utility of foreign propaganda, for the very practical reasons, to 
acquaint the independent nations with the political situation in our country and combat any 
propaganda set on foot by anti-Hindu parties to mislead their judgement or to secure their 
sympathies. The very self-interest of each of the nations in the world is so intert wined and 
got mixed up with the self-interests of others that each of them requires to know and let 
know the real political situation to the other. Coalitions and counter-coalitions even though 
they be based on national self-interest of each nation could be advantageously formed if 
each nation knows the correct political situation in all other countries in the world. Ever since 
the war began England launched a world wide propaganda that she was fighting for freedom 
and democracy all over the world, the Hindu Mahasabha believed not a word of it and openly 
said so in its resolutions. England, therefore, had to prove to Americans and others that if 
she could not free India here and now it was due to India's own fault. American interest on 
this and several other grounds require that if India is satisfied it will be an inexhaustible 
source of men and materials for them to win the war. So they grew more anxious to study 
the Indian situation. Before the war broke out America had some hazy notion that there was 
a National Congress and the Moslem League. The first was a Hindu Body in the main and 
the League represented the Moslems. Consequently, they thought that the Congress and the 
League meant the united opinion of the Hindus and the Moslems. They heard now and then 
something about the Hindu Mahasabha but they did not know how to squeeze it in between 
the two. They had not the slightest notion that the Mahasabha had come to occupy an 
outstanding position as an all-India body. 

But since my cablegram to President Roosevelt which was featured prominently 
throughout the Americal press and through it the world press, the attention of the Americal 
public and the press was drawn more pointedly to the Mahasabha and a curiosity grew in 
foreign countries to know more closely its ideology, position and policy. Several press 
representatives and public men who came to study Indian position in general in the year, 
from America, England and China interviewed the Hindu Mahasabha leaders also. Some of 
them wrote back to their respective presses, acquainting their public with the ideology and 
the outstanding position of the Hindu Mahasabha as the representative all India body of the 
Hindus, just as the Moslem League was the representative of Moslem interest. A number of 
cables sent from the Presidential office and other Mahasabha centres on several occasions 
got good publicity as the American press representatives assured me. Even American film- 
men got the Presidential office and the routine work photoed personally for a movie and I am 
told that the news reels are shown on the American screens. At the time of the negotiations 
also the foreign press-agents took keen interest and did considerable propaganda to make 
the voice of the Mahasabha heard outside India. The contact we have thus succeeded in 
establishing with American, Chinese and even British public men who interviewed personally 
the President and several other leaders and with the public press overseas, has already 
grown intimate enough in making them realise that any pact signed by the Congress alone 
cannot bind the Hindus, unless and until it is agreed to and sanctioned by the Hindu 
Mahasabha the foremost representative body of the Hindus nor can any agreement 
between the Congress and the League alone be taken as an Indian National agreement if the 
Hindu Mahasabha is not a party to it. This fact will stand us in good stead at the end of the 
war when the Powers sit together to reshape the map of the world, and if the political 
constitution of India does form an item on their agenda at all. 

11. It was imperative for reasons indicated above that we should send a delegation 
on behalf of the Hindu Mahasabha to America, England and China at any rate, to defeat the 
British propaganda which was carried on a governmental scale and also to acquaint the 
American public with the ideology and the policy of the Hindu Mahasabha. That section at 
any rate which took interest in Indian affairs and knew something of the Congress and the 
League in these foreign countries must be kept well inforemed of the Hindu Mahasabha 


Page 116 of 130 



Hindu Rashtra Darshan 


activities also. Consequently, a delegation under the lead of Dr. Moonje and Babarao 
Khaparde was to be sent to America. Another delegation was to go under the lead of 
Dr.Varadrajalu Naidu to England to counteract any mischief likely to be done by the move on 
Rajagopalachari's part, who also wanted to go to England. But as Rajaji was not allowed or 
did not ask for any facilities, there was no particular point in pressing on for a passport to Dr. 
Naidu as they were quits. Other outstanding leaders also from Bengal, Punjab and United 
provinces were consulted in this connection and facilities being denied to Babarao Khaparde 
and others, at the very outset the question was left further unpursued. The reasons 
advanced by the Government were various. But the most amusing part of the public criticism 
in non- Mahasabhait camp was that they condemned along with the Government the very 
idea of taking out delegations to foreign lands as that would reduce the prestige of our public 
life and support the British plea that there were dissensions in India. It is bad indeed to 
wash one's dirty linen in a public square. But the point is who did it first ? Did not the 
British press propaganda go round the globe at the failure of the Cripps Scheme that there 
were incurable communal dissensions in India with a thousand-tongued voice ? Then again 
do you think that the thousands of Americans and Chinese at present in India have left their 
eyes and ears in America ? And the Germans, and the Japanese ? The whole world knows 
that there are communal dissensions but the whole world must also know and does know 
that no nation in some or the other phases of its history was without its own communal 
dissensions, wars of secessions or wars of Roses. The point is that just as in spite of the 
dissensions England has bestowed the curse of slavery of India in spite of her will, so also 
England can and therefore ought to bestow a blessing of freedom in spite of her dissensions. 
Just as she is guarding slavery with bayonets she should guard the freedom too. Or she 
should openly say that she does not want to free India because of the British imperialistic 
designs and not owing to our dissensions. If the Hindu Mahasabhaits were allowed to go to 
America our dissensions could not have been a news to the Americans but by acquainting 
them why these dissensions arose and what is the solution of the Hindu Mahasabha for 
them, the delegation would have enabled the foreign public to judge better between the 
black sheep and the grey wolf. 

But nevertheless the Government had done well in inviting Rai Bahadur Meherchand 
Khanna, President, N.W. Frontier Hindu Sabha to join the delegation to the Pacific Relations 
Committee. The Delegation has already reached its destination. Rai Bahadur Khannaji is 
bound to have ringing publicity to his thesis 'Pakistan and the Hindu view' to enable you to 
judge how rapidly, though not sufficiently rapidly, the Hindu Mahasabha has asserted its 
position in England and the other countries, I give below a couple of extracts from the 
brochure published by the Oxford University Press recently and written by R. Coupland who 
had many occasions to observe the Indian affairs at close quarters when he was touring 
India, as well as when attched to the Mission of Sir Stafford Cripps, for what they are worth 


(1) 'Still more vociferous was the Mahasabha the militant Hindu organization 
which has always maintained that all India is Hindusthan and belongs to the Hindus. 
For sometime past its leaders have denounced as a vice that very non-communaiism 
which Congress boasts as a virtue. Congress, they say, is an unfaithful servant of 
Hinduism, and it is one more proof of the existing communal tension that the 
Mahasabha, which not very long ago had little weight in Indian politics, has been 
growing fast in membership and influence. Its policy is quite frankly communal. 
‘Our Moslem countrymen should realise, 'says its fiery President, Mr. Savarkar, ‘that 
even in their own affairs they should accept the inevitable. 'Etc. page 16. 

(2) ‘Militant Hinduism, true to form, was more outspoken. ‘The basic principle 
of the Hindu Mahasabha', said its Working Committee, 'is that India is one and 
indivisible, and it cannot be true to itself or to the best interests of Hindusthan if it is 


Page 117 of 130 



Hindu Rashtra Darshan 


a party to any proposal which involves the political partition of India in any shape or 

form. 'Page 37. 

Lord Devonshire, the Under-Secretary of State for India, referred to the Mahasabha 
as, The second great all-India Hindu organization'. If the Congressites were anxious to 
secure credentials from the Governors, there is no impropriety if we refer incidentally to 
some references just to know in what light others view our activities. 

12. Till a couple of years ago it were only the Moslems, who were fighting for 
Pakistan and all our arguments, we had to address to them; but since the Cripps Mission and 
the Congressites yielding to the Pakistan demand in its worst form as I have shown in 
paragraph 7 of this speech, a preposterous position has arisen. There has sprung up, 
politically speaking, a hybrid of pro-Pakistani Hindus and they have been infecting the Hindu 
mind as rapidly as a contagious and loathsome disease would do. Some of these Congressite 
are good Hindus, but they have been duped into believeing that it is in the interest of the 
Hindus also to allow the Moslem provinces to secede and bring about a final and everlasting 
unity. Then there are very statesmanly Hindu personalities who recognise no affiliation to 
any party or body as it behaves statesmanship but whose commitments,views and votes are 
nevertheless bound to be counted as Hindu ones. It is regrettable that many of these 
esteemed persons should have been ready to admit the principle of provincial secession and 
thus 'statesmanly' enough betray not only the Hindu cause but what they worship like a 
fettish, the Nationalism as well . How these pro-Pakistani Hindus are working to persuade 
the Hindus and even to persuade the Government to compel the Hindus to get persuaded 
can best be illustrated by the untiring effort of Mr. Rajagopalachari. This 'Archarya' has really 
been exerting himself with more sincerity and perverse fanaticism than any mad-Mullah 
known to history. Consequently, the real danger to the integrity of India rises now more 
eminently from the mentality of the Pakistani Hindus than from the efforts of the Pakistani 
Moslems. I deliberately choose some of these points to argue, which I know from personal 
knowledge to weigh heavily on the minds, especially on that section of out Hindu brotheren 
who still belong to the Congress persuasion but who nevertheless have a Hindu heart. 

(a) It must be noted first of all very carefully that there is a fundamental difference 
between a provincial re-distribution and provincial self-determination to secede. 
The latter forms the essence of Pakistan whatever its other aspects or extents 
may be. There is no fundamental objection from Hindu point of view to any re¬ 
distribution of provinces, whether on linguistic, military, financial or any other 
reasonable ground, provided it does not weaken the national strength or 
cohension and does not involve any underlying anti-National and anti- Hindu 
deisgns. But the question of provincial secession from the Central State must be 
altogether ruled out in as much as it means nothing short of breaking up 
Hindusthan into pieces before a century passes away. 

(b) Again, the granting of the right to provinces to secede from the 

the Central Government at their own sweet will and allow them to set 

up as separate states, entirely independent of the Central Indian Government is 
far more dangerous than the demand for Pakistan menaing thereby freedom to 
cut off definite number of provinces, because they contain Msolem majority. 
The latter case,-of a Pakistan demand intolerable as it is and which also we must 
oppose with all our might, does still come to the loss of a defininte number of 
provinces. But the principle of self-determination cannot but form a veritable 
sword of Damocles kept hanging on the head of the Central State. It will be 
practically an invitation and instigation to any province to secede and blow upat a 
stroke the whole ground on which the Indian State has to stand. The majority of 
the Moslems, is the only ground in Pakistnai demand for secession; but in 


Page 118 of 130 



Hindu Rashtra Darshan 


admitting the principle of provincial secession, we shall have to face the demand 
on the part of any province at any time on any economicl and any other 
conceivable ground to secede from the Central Government. Remember that 
the political centralisation in India is still passing through a phase of formation. 
The Indian Central State and the political integrity and cohesion are still standing 
on a fissury rock. We cannot be cocksure against the change that sometime or 
other even some of those provinces, where there is not a Moslem majority may 
be caught up by disintegrating forces and rise against the Central Government 
and carried away by the provincial or even sub-provincial egoistic fever, may 
demand secession and set themselves into separate states. America, Russia and 
several other nations can serve as danger signals to us in this connection. In 
fact, even those nations, which today are strongly unitary, had to pass through 
this phase and it was only a powerful centrifugal Force which kept the centripetal 
tendencies on the part of their components, effectively suppressed, till they got 
slowly eliminated altogether. 

(c ) Those who think it matters not much to allow the Moslems to form their 
independent federation on the North-West Frontier Province, in which there is already 
an overwhelming majority of the Moslems, should take into consideration the Military 
aspect which makes such a surrender simply suicidal on our part. Can you ever find 
such a nation on the surface of the earth which would willingly hand over their 
strongest possible frontiers into the hands of those very people, who seceded from 
them and had been cherishing a hereditary desire to dominate over it ? Then again, 
remember that on the heels of Pakistan, there comes treading the demand for 
Pathanisthan. Those Frontier Provinces, if they get entirely free from the control of 
the Central Government are sure within measurable time to join hands with the tribals 
and form a contiguous Pathani State from Hindukush to the very banks of Zelum. 
There can be no real unity unless and until this their design which for the very 
existence of 'Hindusthan' we can never willingly allow to fructify, is not cowardly 
allowed by letting go our hold on those mountain ranges, which form our National 
frontiers and frontier guards at once, throughout historical time. But why should we 
do it at all ? To avoid rupture with our Moslem friends ? But what guarantee have 
you to believe that this rupture instead of getting lessened by our handing over our 
frontier to them as a free gift will not only get intensified ? For, is it not more likely 
that those, who are now relatively weak and yet are talking of civil war, once they get 
an independent footing as a State, sufficient time and liberty to organize themselves 
and entrenched on the powerful frontier-ranges, grown stronger precisely in the 
proportion your position grows weaker by the withdrawal of your frontier ? Unity, 
when it lays our nation exposed to more dangerous position is worse than open 
hostility. 

(d) Some of our learned Hindu leaders after most complicated calculations maintain 
that there is no harm in allowing the Moslems to sucede and form Pakistani independent 
states in the North-Western parts and even in Bengal because they are bound to be so 
crippled financially and economically that they will soon themselves be compelled to repent 
for secession and go down on their knees. But this financial weakness need not lead to 
repentance alone, as our learned Hindu economists expect. So long as we continue to be so 
cowardly as to yield to any preposterous demand on the part of the Moslems to keep up the 
show of unity and so terribly aftaid of Moslems discontent as to allow even the integrity of 
our Motherland to get broken up into pieces-is it not more likely that this very financial and 
economical starvation of these would-be Moslem states may goad them on to encroach once 
more on our Hindu provinces and instigated by the religious fanaticism, which is so 
inflammanle in the frontier tribes even now and urged on by the ideal of a Pathanistan under 
tha lead of the organised forces of the Ameer, may threaten to invade you if you do not 


Page 119 of 130 



Hindu Rashtra Darshan 


handover to them the remaining parts of the Punjab right up to Delhi to make them 
financially and economically self-supporting ? The example of the Tribes is before your eyes 
already. They carry out incursions almost every year into the Indian provinces and loot, 
kidnap, murder, hold to ransom only the Hindus in particular as a rule. Although they are 
goaded on by Moslem fanaticism in the main, yet several Congressite Hindus were not found 
wanting in disgracefully condoning these nefarious activities of the tribal Pathans on the 
ground of 'financial and even sexual starvation' from which those 'Poor souls' (!) had to 
undergo inordinate sufferings. I am referring to facts howsoever disgraceful they may be 
and not to fictions. What guarantee there could ever be that given this cowardly and ever- 
yielding inferiority complex on the part of the Hindus and this monomania for Hindu-Moslem 
Unity 'at all cost'-that in case these financially starved Pakistnai provinces invade the Hindu 
provinces on their borders with far greater strength than they can now-ever command-a 
troop of Hindus of such mentality would not similarly condone their encroachments, 
sympathise with their demands and to vote for handing over even Delhi to those invading 
Moslems before a shot is fired in order just to make a show before the world of a genuine 
Hindu- Moslem unity or alliance ? The 'poor' Moslems in eastern Bengal are even now 
making their poverty a sufficient excuse and their fanaticism a merit, to loot and harass the 
Hindus whenever they find an opportunity to do so. When once you allow them to get 
organized into governmental strength as a separate Moslem Raj,-do you think that this very 
financial starvation which you admit will cripple their would-be State, would provide them 
with a compelling cause to invade or harass the Hindus in Western Bengal and unless you 
are cured of this unity-mania, would you not be faced again with the same bogey-an 
alternative of handing over some rich slices of Bengal to save the Moslem State from 
perpetual starvation or be prepared to resist their perpetually growing demand ? 

(e) But some of my Pakistani Hindu friends whisper in my ear, 'We know all these 
things, but our yielding for the time being is a craftiest stroke of policy. When we once get 
rid of these troublesome Moslem provinces and are left free to organise unhindered by them 
the unalloyed part of Hindusthan, then we shall consolidate our Hindus and raise them into 
such a mighty military power so rapidly, that the Pakistani provinces of the Moslems would 
be simply brow-beaten into submission.' The only question that should be put to them by 
themselves is, 'Have you not counted without the host-the British ?' Have you got any 
definite guarantee from the British that as soon as you yield to the Pakistani demand, they 
would clear out and leave you to organise your Hindusthan as you choose ? 

Secondly, even if that is done where is the magic wand that shall raise 
the Hindus into such a military power, while Congress mentality continues to dominate a 
thousand of them ? We thank you for your inner intention of raising the Hindus into an 
independent and strong power and for feeling as a Hindu of Hindus, but do you not think 
that the Moslems too would utilise that interval with a vengeance to strengthen their position 
and amalgamating themselves with their kith and kin across the frontier grow quick into a 
powerful Pathanisthan here or a Pakistan there ? Mind you, they have not a single 
Congressite among them and on the other hand, the Moslem minority in every province of 
your would-be Hindusthan would be dominating even Congressite Hindus here as they are 
doing today creatkng the same troubles over again and demanding that you must come to 
terms with thePakistani States by sacrificing some more Hindu provinces on the alter of the 
fettish of Hindu- Moslem unity as our 'prtriotic' 'Azad' and 'Allis' have been purposively doing 
today. And if you as a staunch Hindu realise that, in that case somewhere or the other, we 
shall have to resist them today by flatly refusing even to listen to their insulting and 
intolerable demand, when they are relatively weaker and when we can prove relatively 
stronger by simply changing our yielding mentality and replacing it by the Hindu 
Sanghatanist Idology, pointing out to the aggressive tendency of the Moslems their right 
place and command them 'thus far and no further.' 


Page 120 of 130 



Hindu Rashtra Darshan 


(f) Some of our wise men also are labouring under the misconception that the 
question of Pakistan is just like the Ulster phase in Ireland. But the fact is that they are 
committing a grievous error in comparing the two and suggesting that just as the Irish 
accepted an Ulster we Hindus should accept the Pakistan. In Ireland there was a question of 
only a small corner to be set aside as Ulster. But the Pakistani demand seeks to break up 
India into a number of separate Moslem States and insist that there should be no Central 
Government of India at all; worst than that the principle of provincial secession at the sweet 
will of provinces was never raised in the Irish negotiations. Had this principle been not 
accepted or tolerated by the Irish there would have been no integral Ireland today. This 
principle of provincial secession if accepted by the Hindus would sound the death-knell of our 
national cohesion, integrity and unity. 

(g) The chain of reasoning which has succeeded over these Pakistani Hindus comes 
to this We want Swaraj. England is not going to bestow Swaraj unless and until there is a 
United demand and univocal constitution framed by Hindus and Moslems together. Moslems 
have made it clear that they will not join the Hindus in producing a united demand unless 
and until they are not allowed to break up integrity of India and the Pakistani States are 
allowed to be set up with no connection with any Central Government. Therefore we must 
satisfy the Moslems, yield to their Pakistani demands and get Swaraj. 

Now almost every word in this chain of reasoning is fallacious and the whole chain of 
reasoning is based on a foolish hope. Although we want Swaraj, yet that Swaraj must mean 
the Hindusthani Swaraj in which Hindu, Moslem and all other citizens all have equal 
responsinilities, equal duties and equal rights. Such a Swaraj would not even tolerate a 
particular community on religious grounds to get itself cut off from the Central Government, 
demand portions of our country which is the inalienable basis on which this our national 
Swaraj stands and any such aggressive claim on the part of a community would be 
immediately put down as an act of treachery by the united strength of the Central 
Government. Secondly, it is silly to believe that England is only waiting for a United demand 
and would walk out of India as that rag, signed by the Hindus and Moslems, is handed over 
to them. I emphatically assert that even if the Congress, Hindu Mahasabha and the League 
produce a Unidted demand signed by all the crores of Indian citizens and ask univocally for 
Independence, Britain will never give it for the mere asking. The superstition that if but the 
Congress and the League demanded with one voice anything in the world the demand would 
immediately prove irresistible, is responsible for making the real assets of the League inflated 
beyond all proportions. As soon as the League does join the Congress and even the whole of 
India goes to England with a common demand, England will say, 'well boys, you have 
behaved wonderfully. Hindus, Moslems, all united in a common demand for Independence. 
But as, all of you united, are still unitedly helpless, disarmed and unable to protect yourself, 
Great Britain must continue to rule over you even for the moral obligation to save you from 
the foreign aggression and your own internal anarchy.' So, on the whole, all that you do in 
this bargain is to pay the price knowing perfectly or rather foregoing with open eyes that the 
substantial thing for which you paid the price can never be delivered over to you. And after 
all what is the price ? Vivisection of your Motherland and of your Holyland-the liquidating 
altogether of the spiritual, reacial and above all the political unity and of the certain chances 
of its rapid consolidation. 

And above all, if we grant for the sake of argument that paying such a tremendous 

price for your racial honour and future you are handed over a Swaraj by the British on 

condition laid down by the Moslems What kind of Swaraj and whose Swaraj it can possibly 
be ? It can in no ways be a Swaraj in which 'Swatva' of the Hindus is safeguarded for 
reasons which I have already shown above at some length. Any independence which is 
achieved at price of admission of and the brittle basis of the principle of the provincial 

secession is bound to be like a house raised on a crater of a living volcano. 


Page 121 of 130 



Hindu Rashtra Darshan 


(h) I appreciate in this connection the emphasis the Viceroy has laid at least on 
the geographical unity of India and the fervent appeal His Excellency has made, in his recent 
Calcutta speech, to maintain the integrity of our country on the grounds of practical poliltics 
also. Reasonable safeguards to the monorities must be given and the League of Nations has 
already shown us the way in one of the world-famous documents formulating what 
reasonable safeguards to minorities really mean. But the Viceroy, perhaps inadvertently, 
used the term 'fully satisfactory to the minorities, instead of qualifying the safeguards as 
'reasonable'. Fortunately our countrymen belonging to the Parsi, Jew and Christian 
communities have extended their readiness to abide by the safeguards laid down as 
reasonable for the minorities which the Hindu Mahasabha also is ever willing to guarantee. 
The fact is that it is not a question of minorities, but of one minority, the Moslem minority 
alone. To say that the safeguards must be fully satisfactory to the Moslem minority is to 
justify the whole statement because the only safeguard which can be satisfactory to the 
Moslem minority is, as definitely told by them, to lay an axe at the root of Indian integrity. 
Thus we are caught in a vicious circle. The self-destructive solution that, to save the 
integrity of India as a nation let us kill it outright in order to satisfy the Moslems, is like that 
of some clans who, to save their daughters from dishonour when they grew used to kill them 
as soon as they were born. 

(i) Consequently taking all these above reasons into consideration it will be crystal 
clear to the Hindus who have still kept an open mind on this question that even yielding the 
principle of provincial secession or Pakistan in certain provinces could never bring about the 
Hindu-Moslem Unity but such a move will throw Hindus alone into a hopeless predicament. 
There is no chance whatsoever for the cowardly hope even though they feel that it is a crafty 
one, to be realised that this or that concession to the Moslems is bound to prove final and 
ushering in as permanent and amicable alliance between the two people, so long as it is you 
who yield, so long as the Moslems who would be fools to give up their aggrandisation on 
Hindusthan and the Mohammedans are certainly no fools in so far as this ambition is 
concerned. Invasions against the Kafirsthans is in their grain. They are fed on real or 
boosted up stories of their past conquests; and the only way to hold them in check is to 
make them realise that any such mad dreams would cost them much more than it would, to 
their opponents. That is why, Mr. Jinnah, who speaks in the accents of an Alexander the 
Great, the conqueror of the world when he addresses some local meetings of his admirers 
brandishing a presented sword here or there, threatening the Hindus alone, has never 
displayed the courage of threatening an armed revolt against the English who in fact are 
comfortably seated on the very Gadi of the Moguls and left no trace of the Moslem Empire 
throughout India for he knows that the consequences would be immediately terrible. 

(j) The only organised body that had the courage to tell the Moslems that the 
consequences of their efforts to destroy Indian integrity would be in the long run as terrible 
had been the Hindu Mahasabha alone. Oh ! Hindu Sabhaits and Hindu Sanghatanists you 
form the last citadel in which the Hindu Hope and Hindu Future have come to seek refuge 
and take its last stand for the sake of honour, if not for immediate success and among the 
faithless crowd of Hindus themselves, you form the last faithful army which has rallied round 
to defend and hold up the Pan-Hindu colours as our ancestors did under such trying 
circumstances at Chitor ! If you at any rate, Oh ! Hindu Sanghatanists, do not betray 
yourselves and that tradition of Chitor, then rest assured you will in near future be able to 
sally out or by your falling in the struggle as indomitable and uncompromising warriors 
enable your Race to sally out of the Chitor of Martyrdom-to the Raigad of Victory ! Come out 
then to assert boldly and uncompromisingly on behalf of Hindudom-that 

Just as in America, Germany, China and every other country not excluding 

Russia, so also in Hindusthan, the Hindus by the fact that they form an overwhelming 

majority are the Nation and Moslems 


Page 122 of 130 



Hindu Rashtra Darshan 


Are but a community because like all other communities they are unchallengeably in a 
minority. Therefore they must remain satisfied with whatever reasonable safeguards 
othe minorities in India get and accept as reasonable in the light of the world formula 
framed by the League of Nations. We may adapt it to Indian circumstances by 
concessions more or less on minor questions but no minority in India shall be allowed 
to demand to break up the very integrity of Hindusthan from Indus to the Seas as a 
condition of their participation in the Central Government or Provincial ones. No 
province whatsoever, by the fact that it is a province shall be allowed to claim to 
secede from the Central State of Hindusthan at its own sweet will. Hindusthan as a 
nation can have a right of self-determination but a Province or a District or a Taluka 
can have no right to run counter by the strength of their own majority to the law and 
the will of the Central Government of Hindusthan. All we can in fairness promise is 
to grant a representation to all Indian citizens on the general principle of 'one man 
one vote' or if that is not found to the taste of the Moslems we may go a step further 
and base all representation strictly on population proportion. We know for certain 
that those minorities like Parsis, Christians and others who have expressed 
unmistakably their loyalty to united, undivided and indivisible Indian Nation and the 
Indian State with reasonable safeguards are with the Hindus and willing to work 
shoulder to shoulder for Indian independence. It will be well for the Moslems even in 
their own interest to bear faithful allegiance to the Indian nation on the same 
conditions offered to other minorities. But if the Moslems mistaking the pseudo¬ 
national yielding attitude of Congress for the attitude of Hindudom as such persist in 
their outrageous and treacherous demand for Pakistan or the principle of provincial 
self-determinaiton then it is time, you Oh ! Hindu Sanghatanists, that you must 
proclaim your formula from the very tops of the Himalayas. 'We don't want Hindu- 
Moslem unity at all on such conditions.' 'If you come, with you, if you don't without 
you, and if you oppose, in spite of you, we shall fight as best as we can do secure 
independence and defend the integrity of Hindusthan ! 

Hindusthan shall and must remain an integral and powerful nation and a Central State 
from the Indus to the Seas, treating any movement on the part of any one to vivisect 
it, as treacherous and strongly suppress it just as any movement of Negrosthan would 
be promptly punished by the American nation !! 

13. All laws are but generalisations primarily based on detailed observations. The 
detailed onservation of the history of Hindus through centuries on centuries points 
incontrovertibly to the fact that the Hindu Nation is imbused inherently with such an amazing 
capacity of resurrection, of renaissance, of rejuvenation that the moment, which finds them 
completely overwhelmed by anti-Hindu forces is precisely the moment which ushers in the 
day of Deliverance-to quote the Pouranic style-of the birth of an Avatar. It was in the 
darkest hour of the Night that Shri Krishna was born. It is this indomitable spirit of the 
inherent vitality that enabled our 

National Being to prove almost immortal in relation to other races or nations-ancient or 
modern-and invested it with that strength which ultimately demolished and swept away all 
anti-Hindu forces, which raised their head from time to time against us. This is no mere 
rhodomontade I am indulging in. Leaving aside even the Pouranic period, and the Huns, 
Shakas or even taking into consideration the Moslems who came as conquerors, this is the 
gist of well-authenticated Hindu History. 

The Moslems came as conquerors, but stayed too long to be conquered by the Hindus 
and beaten to a chip in a thousand and one battlefields till at last the mighty Moslems Empire 
which rose like a rocket, fell like a stick, till eventually Hindu horse of Victory rode off 
unchallenged from Attak to Rameshwar, from Dwarka ojagganath. 


Page 123 of 130 



Hindu Rashtra Darshan 


To validate this historical fact, only look at these two following pictures J ust take up 
the map of India about 1,600 A.D. The Moslems ruled all over Hindusthan unchallengeably. 
It was veritable Pakistan realized not only in this province or that but all over India- 
Hindusthan as such was simply wiped out. 

Then open out the map of India about 1700 to 1798 A.D. and what do you see ? 
The Hindu forces are marching triumphantly throughout India. The very Mogul throne at 
Delhi is smashed to pieces literally with a hammer by Sadashivrao Bhau, the Generalissiomo 
of the Maratha ! Our Hindu-Sikh brotherhood does ultimately deliver Punjab from the 
Moslem yoke and rule supremely from the borders of Tibet to the banks of Kabul river; the 
Gurkha-Hindus rule in Nepal. While the Marathas from Delhi to Rameshwar have planted the 
triumphant Hindu flag from capital to capital, from temple to temple. The Pakistan actually 
realised by the Moslems was entombed and out of it rose up once more Hindusthan- 
resurrected and triumphant. The conquering Moslem had to eat the humble pie in the long 
end and got so completely crushed and weaned of his dominating dreams that even today in 
his heart of hearts he shudders to think of his fate as soon as he sees the probability of the 
consolidated strength of the overwhelming Hindu majority in the land. 

It would be good to the Moslem themselves if they once realise the import of this 
historical truth. The fate which overtook them even when they had succeeded on translating 
whole of Hindusthan into an actual living and mighty Pakistan, ought to warn them of the 
miserable future they would have in store if they persisted in dreaming wildly of a Pakistan 
which is today but an airy nothing, a forlorn hope ! 

14. The Hindu Mahasabhaits should remember that as is very probable they will be 
called upon to fight out any attempt on the part of the Moslems to thrust the Pakistan on us, 
whether by resorting to the 'revolt' whatever the Leaguers may mean thereby, then the 
entire burden, responsibility and consequently the merit also will be yours in facing the 
struggle single-handed. The Congress-minded Hindus, the worshippers of pseudo-Nationality 
would not only be of no use to you, but would actually try to combat you and try to put you 
into a false position by their willing surrender to the Moslem demands as Hindus. You 
should, therefore, try to mobilise your Forces and reserve whatever strength you can 
command for this defence of the integrity of India, which no one else but you alone may 
defend. You are the salt of Hindudom; but if the salt loses its flavour, with what shall it be 
salted ? Independence of Hindusthan has no meaning at the cost of its fundamental integrity 
as a state and a nation. It may be thrust on us even as the British rule is thrust on us but 
just as that does not deprive us of the right of struggling for our freedom with England, even 
so id we but do not betray our own conscience and sign willingly any or all schemes, 
proposing percentages, plebiscites, which are growing in abundance like mushrooms either 
out of panic or pusillanimity you will find yourself soon in a position to press on both the 
demands regarding independence and integrity and together get them realised through your 
own strength. 

So far as the most determining factor of all secondary movements the world war is 
concerned, neither parties of either the Axis or the allies has as yet secured any result so 
decisive as to invest it with an unquestionable superiority. Consequently, the best policy for 
all nations situated as we Hindus are, is to continue so sit on the fence and watch the results, 
keeping ourselves all the while as well-organised, as well-informed and as tactfully ready to 
take as much advantage of the last results, when the war ends. 

15. In view of this indecisive aspect of the war and the necessity for the Hindu 
Sanghatanists to keep mobilised their forces for the resistance which they are very likely to 
be called upon to offer and continue fighting the anti-Pakistani struggle single-handedly and 
owing to our inability howsoever regrettable but which must be recognized as an actuality, to 


Page 124 of 130 



Hindu Rashtra Darshan 


enter the world combat on our own account to win back our Independence, the most far¬ 
sighted and practicable programme which, if carried on faithfully and handicapped though we 
are, while the war continues without arriving at any decisions, is as follows - 

(a) To continue a hundred times more intensely the Hindu Militarization Movement 
and try to get recruited and enlisted as many Hindus as possible in the Army, Navy, the Air 
Forces, Ammunition Factories, War Technicians, etc. The results of this movement are 
already so encouraging as to make it quite superfluous now on my part to marshal out all the 
arguments I had been doing so often. When the war began, the percentage of the Moslems 
had so dangerously gone high in the Army as 62 percent. This was the result of the 
Gandhist policy denouncing the soldier as sinner and the spinner as the greatest spiritual 
warrior, who alone was the real liberator of the land and was sure with the music of his 
spinning wheel to win over the hearts of all Hitlers, Stalins, Churchills and Tojos. But ever 
since the Hindu Mahasabha found that the war had made it incumbent on the Government to 
throw the doors of the Army, Navy, the Air Forces open to the Hindus, it whipped up military 
enthusiasm amongst the Hindus and conducted an organised campaign to send thousands 
and thousands of Hindus to all branches of the military forces of the land. The result as has 
recently been declared is that the percentage of the Moslems in the Army has gone from 62 
to 32 per cent. This must also be reduced to some 25 in just accordance with the population 
proportion of Hindus and Moslems. The Hindu Mahasabha branches all over India must start 
Militarization Boards to send to the forces of the land the best and the bravest of the Hindus. 
If any province or a district wants to study an organization board which has proved most 
competent in this respect it should do well to study personally the working and the results 
achieved by the Militarization Mandal at Poona under the able lead of our esteemed 
Hindusabhaits leader Sjt. L.B. Bhopatkar. Hundreds of promising Hindu youths have already 
secured King's Commissions, Viceroy's Commissions and are leading the forces with efficiency 
and merit and getting an up-to-date knowledge and practice of warfare in different 
battlefields. The same can be said of the Air-forces. Believe me that nothing can stand the 
Hindus in better stead even after the war, as this Hindu Militarization will do. I assure every 
Hindu soldier and officer, who are now serving in the Indian Army, Navy, the Air Forces, etc. 
that they are doing as patriotic a service to their Nation as those who went to jail at 
Bhagalpur, if not more. The immediate defence of our hearths and homes does also make it 
incumbent to make a common cause with the British forces, till they are in the field. 

(b) Continue to capture all centres of political power from the Central Executive 
Council, Legislatures, Defence Committees and Councils, Municipalities, Ministries in the Civic 
part of the Government just as on the military side. The men who come to occupy these 
centres of power must be either elected by the Hindu Mahasabha or supported by it as 
Independent Hindu Sanghatanists. But in no case should a Hindu be trusted with any such 
centre of power who by persuasion belongs to be Pseudo-Nationalistic Congress School and 
glorifies more in betraying Hindu rights to the Moslems than in defending them against 
Moslem encroachment. 

(c) Do not fritter away your energies or keep you Sanghatanists forces shackled down 
in any untimely and tactless movement which pursuing high sounding slogans loses more 
than gains in the long run. Remember it is not the slogan but the strength that counts. 
Under the war fever only arms speak and can dictate, not slogans howsoever high sounding. 

(d) But you must, because you can, give fight on detailed questions, in defence of the 
civic rights of the Hindus when they are locally attacked or humiliations deliberately offered 
to the Hindu honour or any just grievance or to face any anti-Hindu riots, as we have already 
been doing year in and year out. Only those issues which are beyond our power to tackle 
and are to be fought out on an all-India scale against armed forces overwhelmingly more 
powerful than those we can rally, disorganised and disarmed as we relatively are, should not 


Page 125 of 130 



Hindu Rashtra Darshan 


be taken up just now. Time and strategy demand that we should leave them till we are in a 
better position. 

(e) In the meanwhile, in order to mobilise our forces and keep them prepared for any 
emergency such as the Pakistani struggle, we should continue the constructive activities to 
make our Hindu Mahasabha organization as strong as possible. The general and suicidal 
error which makes us under-value constructive programme, which we could easily carry out 
even during the war time, must be immediately corrected. Even the war-time must be 
utilised all the more intensely by enlisting as many members, starting branches at as many 
places down to Talukas and villages and keeping them well organized and working, is a duty 
which the Hindu Mahasabha must continue to do and can do even now with a hundredfold 
speed and activity. 

(f) Remember also that the removal of untouchability is a task as easy to be tackled 
as it is bound to strengthen Hindu consolidation. It will be nothing short of a victory won in 
the battlefield if we, within five year's time, can sweep out untouchability from the face of 
our country by killing the very idea of not touching our co-religionists on ground of birth in a 
particular caste alone, and removing automatically the special disability, some economical 
and some social, from which those of our religious brothers are suffering most unjustly at 
this hour. It is only a change of mentality and nothing more than that can achieve this 
seemingly insuperable task. If everyone of the Hindu Sanghatanists simply says and begins 
to act on it 'I would not look upon anyone of my co- religionists as untouchable simply on 
account of birth in a particular caste'-the question will be solved without a farthing's cost or 
the least measure of suffering and we shall have a veritable army of some three crores of our 
co- religionists fighting shoulder to shoulder with us under Pan-Hindu flag on behalf of 
Hindudom. 

(g) So long as the war continues without reaching any decisions, this is the most 
profitable and the most tactical programmme which the Hindu Mahasabhaits and the Hindu 
Sanghatanists can work our and must work out before the war introduces any revolutionary 
factor, concerning our own country so as to demand our first attention and compels us to 
adapt ourselves to it forthwith. 

16. All our present programmes, it need not be mentioned, are based on the 
assumption that Britain comes out at any rate so successful, of this World War, as to 
continue to be the Sovereign power in India. Nothing has happened so far, so cataclysmic as 
to undermine the probability of this assumption. But then the forces of Japan are hanging 
on so persistently on our eastern borders undislodged to any appreciable measure and on 
the other hand the Axis powers have been surrounded at any rate for the moment by a 
veritable bornet of irritated nations, that no one even among the most optimistic statesmen 
or commanders or dictators is in a position to predict with any certainty or definiteness the 
results of the war. Till that along with those nations who cannot but helplessly watch their 
destinies tied up with the fortunes either of the powerful combatants on bothe sides, India 
too disarmed as it is must bide her time and tide. 

The dice of Destiny are loaded already and recklessly thrown on a world battlefield ! 
All nations are thrown in the crucible ! The very seas are on flames, and the skies are 
garrisoned with and showering thunderbolts day and night. No nation after this world war 
can emerge just as it was. Many of those who were at the pinnacle of their power will be 
reduced to the dust. Many who were trampled down in the dust may all of a sudden find 
themselves in a position to rise and come to their own. The face of the earth is bound to get 
revolutionised in any case and in that revolutionary upheaval which at present lies in the lap 
of the War Gods, one thing only could be said with some certainty so far as India is 
concerned that she also cannot but be one of the factors whose future is bound to get 
revolutionised though we cannot and may not point out definitely the course and the 


Page 126 of 130 



Hindu Rashtra Darshan 


aspects of it. One thing you may rest assured that all possible courses and aspects are 
already viewed as carefully as human ingenuity can and neither the continuation nor the 
termination of the war can find the Hindu Mahasabha unprepared to take full advantage of 
every revolutionary phase the war passes through, near or far off, so as to press on the 
Hindu casue. As has happened so many times in the Hindu History that it was precisely in 
the darkest hour that the Avatar destined to deliver us was born, it is not quite unlikely, nay, 
it is more likely than not, that the spirit of Renaissance of the Hindu Race may find an 
opportunity to assert itself and as if by a miracle similar to those our Puranas sing, Hindudom 
emerges triumphant over all the forces of evil which are attacking it today. 

About possibilities and even about probabilities wise men should not assert anything 
more definitely in such cases than pious hopes ! All that they should do is to conserve the 
forces of their nation in the meanwhile, and wait for the probable time and tide so that they 
may not be found wanting, if the probability doe arise all of a sudden. 

Hindu Sabhaits and Hindu Sanghatanists ! Only see to it that on the eve of such a 
probable, miraculous development in near future, do not play coward to your conscience 
under the weight of the present or get stampeded by the pseudo-nationalistic forces into any 
unbecoming pacts and do not sell you birth-rights for the mess of pottages, and play coward 
to your own conscience ! Hold fast to the programme chalked out above for the present, 
plain though it may seem and get not yourselves trapped into any untimely ourburst, which, 
instead of bringing you near success may only serve to find you entirely disabled, to catch 
the tide of fortune which in all probability is likely to reach your shores under the pressure of 
the war! 

In any case, hold fast to the crux of the Hindu Sanghatanist ideology which shall 
serve you in any event, the Future may infold, namely 

:Hinduise all politics and Militarise Hindudom !' 

Hindu Dharm ki Jay a ! Hindu Rashtra ki Jay a ! 

Vande Mataram 




Page 127 of 130 



Hindu Rashtra Darshan 


APPENDIX 


Statement on Resignation 


The following statement was issued by Veer Savarkarji on 31-7-1943 from his 
Presidential Office, Savarkar Sadan, Bombay: 

In as much as even the sixth year of my Presidentship of the Hindu Mahasabha is 
rapidly drawing to its close, I feel that the time has come for announcing my decision to 
resign the Presidentship and request the Mahasabhait electorate, without in any way 
impudently trespassing on its right of liberty of choice, to relieve me of this high office, by 
not including my name even in the first panel of the election of the President for the next 
year. 


The heavy work involved in discharging my duties as the President continuously for 
six years has visibly affected my health and secondly I have also felt time and again, as will 
be shown in my statements issued on the occasions of my former resignations, that I should 
myself come forward to help the electorate to select some one of our able colleagues to act 
as a President of the Hindu Mahasabha for the next year. 

In this connection it should be noted that this is not the first time I am tendering my 
resignation although it must definitely be the last one now. When I fell seriously ill in August 
1940 and when in spite of it I was elected to preside over the Madura Session I tendered my 
resignation for the first time. But owing to the most cordial pressure of Hindu Sanghatanists 
public all over India and the Reception Committee in particular which wrote to me that the 
session itself would not be held with any amount of success if I did not withdraw my 
resignation, I accepted the Presidentship for the fourth time and could only be taken on a 
stretcher to attend the session. Next year in 1941, I again resigned for the second time but 
was elected almost unanimously for the fifth time. J ust then the Bhagalpur question came to 
a head and to defend Hindu honour I thought my duty required me to stick to my guns. 
Consequently, I accepted even the dictatorship of the civil-resistance campaign and faced 
imprisonment at the head of thousands and thousands of our Hindu Sanghatanist co¬ 
workers who fought out the struggle to an undeniable success. That task over, I tendered my 
resignation for the third time in July 1942. But the Working Committee refused to accept it 
and would not proceed to work till I withdrew it. 

Just then the Congress movement of 'Quti India But Keep Your Army Here' was 
launched and later on it came to my notice that some of the leading Congressites who were 
outside the jail had actually conspired to capture the Hindu Mahasabha itself because it 
refused to serve the Congress as a handmaid. They wanted to use it to take the Congress- 
nuts out of fire and make the Mahasabha accept the Pakistan at least in principle. What I 
then foresaw has been proved to demonstration by later events. In order to ward off this 
danger in time and to expose and frustrate this conspiracy I resolved not only not to resign 
but contest the election. This was the only time when I actually contested it. Backed up by 
the wisdom and the overwhelming confidence of the Hindu Mahasabhaits electorate I was 
again almost unanimously elected for the sixth time in continuous succession to the 
Presidentship. The session at Cawnpore passed an uncompromising and emphatic resolution 
not only against the Pakistan scheme but even against the vicious principle of Provincial self- 
determination to secede from the central Indian State. The Hindu Militarization movement 


Page 128 of 130 




Hindu Rashtra Darshan 


received a fillip and all attempts to Congressify the Hindu Mahasabha were brought to naught 
to the great chagrin of the Congress stalwarts as Mr. Rajagopalachariar who publicly 
bewailed-'Even those few leaders of the Hindu Mahasabha who more or less sympathized 
with my formula regarding Hindu-Moslem Unity fell a prey to crowd psycholoty at Cawnpore. 

This short recapitulation of events will show that I have time and again tried to lay 
down the reigns of the Presidentship for the very reasons indicated above in para two for 
which I have now definitely made up my mind to resign. This clarification is meant to 
forestall any misinformed or mischievous attempt to attribute my resignation to any other 
reason than those indicated above. It is precisely because I feel that the Hindu Mahasabha is 
by far the stronger and more consolidated organisation today than ever before that I have 
chosen this particular time to resign. Even an adversely inclined critic like Prof. Coupland, a 
member of the 'Cripps Mission' has remarked in his recent booklet- The Hindu Mahasabha is 
a militant organisation of Hindus which has been growing fast in membership 
and influence.' 

I rejoice, while tendering this resignation , to see that I have been able to do so 
while I am in possession of the fullest confidence and affectionate regard of the Hindu 
Sanghatanist world as a whole throughout India. Millions of my countryman and co¬ 
religionists who participated in the celebrations of my Diamond Jubilee only last month have, 
- through the resolutions passed at thousand and one meetings in almost all capital cities, 
towns and villages, through the addresses given to me by local bodies, associations and 
literary and religious institutions, through messages I received from hundreds of most 
prominent Hindu leaders including those who did not formally belong to the Hindu 
Mahasabha organization, through the special numbers of leading periodicals and editorials in 
papers in the country,-given most touching expressions to their grateful appreciations of the 
humble services I rendered to the Hindu Cause and have assured me of their fullest 
confidence and trust in me and the Hindu Ideollogy I advocate. 

In all humility I thank the Hindu Sanghatanist public and all my comrades and 
colleagues in particular for this their overwhelming kindness, confidence and even 
forbearance they showed for whatever shortcoming they might have noticed in me. 

It is needless to add that in spite of this resignation of its Presidentship I shall ever 
continue as a soldier in its rank and file amd serve the Hindu in 
furtherance of the Hindu Cause. 




Long Live The Hindu Mahasabha! ‘Long Live Hindudom !!’ 

The following statement was issued by Veer Savarkarji on 17-12-1943 from 
his Presidential Office, Bombay: 

I gratefully acknowledge the kindness, confidence and appreciation of the work done, 
expressed by the Hindu Mahasabha electorate in entrusting me with the Presidentship of the 
Mahasabha for the seventh time in an unbroken succession, in spite of my resignation 
pending before the Working Committee. But as I have been fearing long since, my health has 
steadily declined and I have been confined to bed for the last fort-night by an acute attack 
of bronchitis. My medical advisers are definitely against my undertaking any long journey 
especially to a part where severe cold prevails. I must, therefore, request the Hindu 
Sanghatanist public to excuse my inability to attend the next Silver Jubilee Session of the 
Hindu Mahasabha at Amritsar. 


Page 129 of 130 



Hindu Rashtra Darshan 


I have already referred this matter to the Reception Committee and to Dharmaveer 
Dr. Moonje, the General Secretary of the Hindu Mahasabha, intimating the latter to call the 
Working Committee as it is laid down in our constitution, to consider this question and select 
some one of our foremost leaders to officiate in my stead as the President. My personal view 
in this matter is that Dr. Syama Prasad Mookerjee should be unanimously elected to officiate 
in my stead as the President, especially in view of the fact that it will be very long for me to 
recoup my health and energy to work with full efficiency. 

Nevertheless the decision of the Working Committee must be held final. 

I exhort every Hindu Sanghatanist who can, to attend the Session at Amritsar. The 
Reception Committee at Amritsar has left no stone unturned to render this Silver J ubilee of 
the Mahasabha as grand a success as possible. From my sick-bed I cannot express at length 
the special significance why Hindudom should rally round the Pan-Hindu Flag on the occasion 
of this Silver Jubilee Session so as to demonstrate the mighty mental revolution that has 
already come to sway the Racial Soul of the Hindu Nation. 

All I can say in this short statement is this that if but Hindudom does not betray itself 
and does rise equal to the occasion as it has done a hundred times in centuries gone by-then 
the day of the birth of the Hindu Mahasabha is bound to be marked red in the Hindu history 
before long as the day of the birth of an Avatar : 'the Saviour of the Hindu Nation'-as the day 
of the birth of a New Yug : the Hindu Yug. 


Telegraphic message dated 1-8-1944 sent by Veer Savarkar 

The following Telegraphic message dated 1-8-1944 was sent by Veer Savarkarji to 
Dharmaveer Bhopatkar, the Chairman of the Reception Committee, to welcome Dr. Syama 
Prasadji on the accasion of his visit to Poona : 

'I join you in welcoming Dr. Mookerji. Hindudom is indebted to him so much for his 
monumental services and his recent condemnation of Provincial self-determination to secede 
from the Central Government and his determination to oppose Indian vivisection that I for 
one wish that the crown of thorns of the Presidentship of the Hindu Mahasabha, the highest 
honour that Hindudom can offer be bestowed on him next year.' 


Page 130 of 130 



