
4617 






4SLT ' 



LOKMUYA TILAK’S SPEECH 

ON 

“ HOME RULE ” 

At Bi5t,gatjm. 

[ 2 May 

j Kn-l'd") translation of the Marathi 
tL> the (Jouib by Mr.,Thakur, 

Tent of the 18 th BombJ 
Time. 6 to 7-30 p. m. v ^ 

The lecture was given immiediately after 
heli under the auspices ui H'lfa Historical 
Society 

In the beginning the Hon. Mr, D. V. Belvi said:**” 
“ My friend Lok. Bal Gangadhar Tilak is going to d®v- 
er a lecture oti Horae Rule. I propose that on this occasion 
Dadasahib Khaparde, the President of our Provincial 
Conference, should take the chair. After Mr. Masur 
had seconded this proposal, Dadasaheb Khaparde rose 
to speak amidst loud cheers. He said ; “ Consider it to 
he a good fortune of our people, that there should be a 
subject like swarajya and a lecturer like Mr. Tilak. That 
both these things should come together at our house and 
that the Horae Rule League which was to be started this 
year should also be established to-day— this union of 





[ 2 -] 

three a uspieiotl.^ Events’" has takis^Jylace here. Hence, 
you will be pleased to hear with a calm mind what Mr. 
Tilak has to say, ponder over it, and digest it well, so 
much so that you yourselves may become soldiers Jsym- 
pathisiug with swarajya and contending and caring for it. 
A man becomes one with the object about which he is 
thinking. The bee has no progeny. But it captures 
and brings insects from outside, looks at them and draws 
their attention towards itself. In the end those insects 
become bees. I have stood up to say that we too should 
study this subject in the above manner. Now Loka* 
manya Tilak will spe^k on his subject at length. ” 

Then Mr.'^TiJU*^ ’’’se to speak amidst loud cheers 
He said:— v ' 

• fiia.I was requested to give a lecture here to- 

day I did'^hot know on what to lecture. I do not stand 
before you to-day after having made any preparation for 
any particular subject. I had come for the conference. 
Thinking that it would not be improper if I were to say 
a w words to you about those subjects which were 
discussed during the past two or three days and about 
the object with which a Home Rule League was establish- 
ed here before the Congress, I have selected that subject 
for to-day’s lecture. 

“ What Jis swarajya ? Many have a misconception 
about this. Some do not understand this thing. Some 
understanding it, misrepresent it. Some do not want it. 
Thus there are many kinds of them. Therefore I am not 

*<Lit, the union of three sacred rivers whioh is supposed to 
take place at Allahabad. > 



prepared to-day *.o nir particular discussion of 

any sort beyond saying a few general words on the 
following among other points : What is sivarajya ? Why 
do we ask for it ? Are we fit for it or not ? In what 
manner must we make this demand for swarajya of those 
of whom we have to make it ? In what direction and on 
what lines are we to carry on the work which we have to 
carry on ? It is not the case that these general words 
which I am going to say are the outcome of my effort and 
exertion alone. The idea of swarajya is an old one. Of 
course when swarajya is spoken of (it shows that) there 
is some>kind of rule opposed to t^a^ i. e. our, and (that) 
this idea originates at that time. is plain. When such 
a condition arrives itbegins to be thought that there should 
be sivarajya^ and men make exertions for thp>f^urpose. 
You are at present in that sort of condition, ^^ose who 
are ruling over you do not belong to your religion, race*^ 
or even country. The question whether this rule of the 
English Government is good or bad is different. The 
question of about ‘one’s own’ and ‘alien’ is also different. 
Do not make a confusion of the two at the outset. A^hen 
the question ‘alien, or one’s own ?’ comes, we must say 
‘alien.’ When the question ‘good or bad’ comes, say 
‘good’ or. say ‘bad.’ If (you) say ‘bad,’ then what improve- 
ment must be made in it ? — this question is different. If 
(you) say ‘good’ it must be seen waht good things are 
under it which were not under the former rule. These 
are different points of view. Formerly there were many 
kingdoms in our India— in some places there was Moha- 
mmadan ( rule), in some places there was Rajput (rule) 
in some places there was Hindu (rule) and in some pla- 



[ 4 3 

ces there was Maratha (rule) — were these ^ a ara/yar good 
or bad ? I again remind you that this is a different ques - 
tion. We shall consider it afterwards. All those being 
broken up, the universal sovereignity of the English 
Government has been established in India. To-day we 
have not to consider the history of their down -fall. We 
have also not to consider how they fell. Nor am I going 
to speak about it. But the present system of administra - 
tion is such that some able men who have been educated 
in England and have received college education come to 
India and the State administration of India is carried on 
through them. ‘Em^ejri)r’ is (merely) a name. • When 
you give a visible foriti^ ^ the sentiment which arises in 
your mind at the mention of (the word) raja i, e. (king) 
there is present Emperor. This sentiment is invisi- 
ble. Wh(?[f a visible form is given to this invisible (some - 
thing,) there is the king — the Emperor. But the Empe- 
ror dose not carry on the administration. The question 
of sivarajya is not about the Emperor, not about this 
invisible sentiment. This must be remembered at the 
outsft. Eet there be any country, it must have a king, 
it must have some man to carry on its management and 
th^re must be exercised some sort of rule over it. The 
case of anarchical nations is different. Such nations 
never rise. As in a house there must be some one to 
look after its management — when there is no man belon- 
ging to the house an outsider is brought in as a trustee — 
just so is the case also of a kingdom. In every country 
there is a certain body for carrying on its administration 
and there is some (sort of) arrangement. An analysis 
must be made of both these things, viz., of this arrange- 



[ 5 J 


meiit and this body and, as :;stated yesterday by the 
President ( the President of the Provincial Conference*) 
of the sentiment of ‘king.* There must be a king, there 
must be Slate administration. Both these propositions 
are true from the historical point of viewr Of a country 
where there is no order, where there is no king, that isj 
where there is no supervising body, the Mahabharat says 
‘A wise man should not live even for a moment at that 
place.’ There is no knowing Jwherv, at that place our 
lives may be destroyed, when our wealth may be stolen* 
when oiir house may be dacoited, nay, set on fire/ There 
must b-} a government. I will \(^t say at length what 
there was in the Kritayugt in ancient times. The people 
of that lime did not require a king. Kvery one used to 
carry on dealings only after seeing in what mr^^%l good 
lay. Our Puranas say that there was once a condition 
when there was no king. But if we consider whether 
such a state existed in historical times it will appear 
that such s condition did not exist in historical rimes. 
There must be some controller or other, Thai control 
cannot be exercised every time by all people assen^bling 
together at one place. Hence, sovereign authority is 
always divided into two parts: one the advisory body, 
and the other the executive body. The question about 
su'arajya which has now arisen in India is not about the 
said invisible sentiment. This question is 'not about 
those who are to rule over us, ( and) according to whose 
leadership, by whose order and under whose guidance 
that rule is to be exercised. It is an undisputed fact that 

♦ The braokets are in the original. 

t The first of the four ages according to the Hlndus.^ 



[ 6 ] 


we should secure our own good under the rule of the 
Eftglish people themselves, under the supervision of the 
English nation, with the help of the English nation, 
through their sympathy, through their anxious care and 
through those high sentiments which they possess. And 
I have to say nothing about this (cheers). This is the 
first thing. Do not create confusion in your minds by 
confounding both the things. These two things are quite 
distinct. What we have to do we must do with the help of 
some one or other, since to-day we are in such a helpless 
condition. It is an undoubted fact that we must secure 
our good under their prelection. “Had it not been so, your 
independence would nfeer have gone. Hence if we take 
for granted that we have to bring about the dawn of our 
good for^rne with the help of the English Government 
and the ti^itish Empire, then the one more strange thing 
which some people see (lit. think) in this will altogether 
disappear. To speak in other words, there is no sedition 
in this. If then without* the help of the English Govern- 
ment — if the words ‘invisible English Government,* be 
used for the wor,ds — ‘English Government’ there would 
be no mistake— if with the help of this invisible English 
Government, with the aid of this invisible English Gov - 
ernmenl, you are to bring about the dawn of your good 
fortune, then, what is it that you ask ? This second 
question arises. The answer to it, again, lies in the 
very distinction of which I spoke to you. Though a 
Government may be invisible, still when it begins to 
become visible, the management of that kingdom is carri- 
ed on by its hands and by its actions. This state of 
•Sic. 



[ 7 1 


being visible is different from invisible Government. If 
yon ask how, (I say) in the same manner as the great 
BraJwia is different from Maya. I h^ve taken the word 
visible and invisible from Veda^Ua (philosophy). The 
great Brahma which is without attributes and form is diffe- 
rent and the visible form which it assumes when it begins 
to come under the temptation of maya^ is defferent. 
Hence these dealings which are due to maya are sure to 
change. What is the characteristic of mayaf (It is) 
to change every moment. One Government will remain 
(viz.) invisible Government; and the visible Government 
changes ^very momentr The woi|ds Swarajya which has 
now arisen relates to visible Govtrlnment. Maintaining 
the invisible Government as one, what change, if effected 
in the momentarily changing visible GovernmenJ^ would 
"be beneficial to our nation ? This is the question^ bf Swa- 
rajya. And this being called* the question of Sivarajya, 
there arises the question : Tn whose hands should be that 
sort of administration which is now carried on in our 
India ? We do not wish to change the invisible Govern- 
ment — English Government. We say that (the admiliis- 
tration) should not be in the hands of a visible entity 
by whose hands this invisible Government is getting 
works done, but should pass into some other^s 
hands. The Swarajya agitation which is now carried 
on is carried on in the belief that this adminis- 
tration if carried on by some other hands (or) with the 
help. of some one else, (or) by some other visible form 
would be ( more ) beneficial to the people than when 
carried on by those by whose hands it is carried on. If 
^ Not olear in the original. 




[ 8 .] 


another instance is to be given, it can be said that there 
is an Ktnperor in England. An English Act contains 
the rule that king commits no wrong, t The king never 
commits a wrong (lit. offence). For his authority is 
limited in such a manner that (only) when a certain 
minister goes and tells something to him then he knows 
it. The Prime Minister does act on his own responsibility. 
There may be a good many (people) here who have 
studied English history. It is not the case that this 
is not so. This is the chief principle in it. This 

principle having arisen in English history, (the 
number of) sedition ^sesbegan^to fall. While here, 
these (people) begin ro institute cases of sedition. Those 
who carry on the administration are different and the 
king indifferent. The king is one and the same. But 
the minreter changes every five years. At that time no*' 
one says that it would be sedition if any one were to 
start any discussion advocating change of ministry. 
These are the things happening every day before the 
eyes of the English people. The king's circle (of min is - 
ters^ went (out of office) after five years, went [out of 
office] after two years; they may quarrel among them- 
selves as they like. What is that to the king? He is the 
g^eat Brahma without attributes. He is not affected by 
this. The Bwvrajya agitation now existing in India is 
then about change in such a ministry. Who rules in 
India? Does the Emperor come and do it? He is to be 
'taken in procession like a god on a great occasion, we 
are to manifest our loyalty towards him, this alone is 

t Thess worda are in J^ngliah in the original. 




[ 9 ] 

their duty.**^ Through whom, then, is the administra- 
tion carried on? It is carried on through those who are 
now servants (viz.) the State Secretary, Viceroy, Go- 
vernor, below him the Collector, the Patil and lastly the 
police sepoy. If it be said that one Police sepoy should 
be transferred and another Police sepoy should be given, 
would that constitute sedition? If it be said that the 
Collector who has come is not wanted and that another 
is wanted, would that constitute sedition? If it be said 
that one Governor is not wanted, another Gover- 
nor should be brought, would that constitute sedition ? 
If it be S|id ‘This State Sacretaryi^^is not wanted,^ bring 
another’ would that constitute sedition ? No body has 
called this sedition. The same principle which is appli- 
cable to a Police sepoy is also applicable to tliji State 
Secretary. We are the subjects of the same king whose 
minister the State Secretary is and whose servant he is. 
This then being so, if any one were to say, ‘The State 
Secretary is not wanted, this Viceroy is not wanted, 
P’uller Saheb is not wanted in Bengal, such resolu- 
tions have often been passed in the case of Gover- 
nors, not in the. present but in the past times’ and 
were to give reasons for that, you would say about 
him that his head must have been turned ( ami 
that) the reasons he gives are not good or sufficient. 
But from the historical point of view it does not follow 
that when he says so, that constitutes sedition (cheers). 
Our demand belongs to the second class. It is concerned 
with swarajya. Consider well what I say. If you think 
that the present administration is carried on well, then 
*ThiR sentence Is not oleer in the original. 



[ 10 ] 

1 have nothing to say. In the congresses and conferences 
that are now held you come and say : ‘Our Kulkarni 
Vatan has been taken (away), zulum has been exercised 
upon us in connection with the Forest Department, liquor 
(drinking) has spread more in connection with the Abkari 
(Department), also we do not receive that sort of edu- 
cation which we ought to get. ’ Whht is the root of all 
this ? What is the benefit of merely saying this ? Why 
do you not get education ? Why are shops of the Abkari 
Department opened where we do not want them ? In the 
Forest Department, laws about reserved forests and about 
forest of this sort or ^ that Sbrt are made. Why were 
they made ? At present, lists upon lists about this come 
before the Congress. Why was your jury abolished 
agains^your will ? Why was no college opened in the 
Karnatic up to this time ? All these questions are of 
such a kind that there is but one answer to them. At 
present our thoughts run this way: is there no College ? 
— make petition to the Collector or to the Governor, be- 
cause they have power in their hands. If this power 
had' come into your hands if you had been the officials 
’ft their places or if their authority had been responsible 
to the public opinion, these things would not Have hap- 
pened. No other answer than this can be given to the 
above. These (things) happen because there is no 
authority in your hands. The authority to decide these 
matters is not given to you for whose good this whole 
arrangement is to be made. Hence what we may have to 
ask becomes like (that asked by) a little child. It cries 
when it is hungry. It cannot say that it is hungry. 
Then the mother has to find out whether it may be 



L li J 


hungry or have a bellyache. Sometimes the remedies 
used prove to be out of place. Such has become our 
condition at present. In the first place you do not at all 
know what you want (and) where lies your difficulty. 
When you came to know it, you began to speak with 
your mouth. But you have no power in ‘your hands to 
cause (things) to be done according to your words. Such 
being the condition, what has happened now ? What- 
ever you have to do, whatever you want— if you want 
to dig a well in your house — make a petition to the 
Collector. If you want to kill a tiger in the forest make 
a Jpetition^ to to the Collector. Qr&ss is not obtained, 
Duiidles (of wood) are not obtained, from the forest, 
permission to cut grass is required— petition the Collector. 
That is to say, all this has become like (the case^f a) 
‘helpless man. We do not want this arrangement. We 
want some better arrangement than this. That is Swa- 
rajya, that is Home Rule. In the beginning these ques- 
tions do not arise, As when a boy is young he knows 
nothing, when he grows up he begins to know these 
things, and then begins to think that it would be very 
good if the household management were made at least to 
some extent according to his opinion, just so it is with 
a nation. When (lit. as) it is able to consider this thing, 
when it acquires the capacity of considering (this thing) 
then this question is likely to arise. But now the con- 
dition here has become such that we had better give up. 
the above thought, let us give up the thought about the 
invisible ’Government, let us come within the limits of 
ithe visible Governmenti (we then see that) the people 
who make this arrangement, who carry on this adminis- 



[ 12 ] 

tration, are appointed in England according to a certain 
rule and law, and rules are made within the limits of 
those laws as to what should be their policy. These 
rules may be good or bad. They may be good, they 
may be quite well -arranged and methodical. I do not 
say that they are not. But however good may be the 
arrangement made by (other) people, still it is not the 
case that he who wants to have the power to make this 
arrangement always approve of this. This is the princi- 
ple of swarajya. If you got the powers to select your 
Collector, it cannot be said with certainty that he would 
do any more work than the ‘present Collector* Perhaps 
he may not do. He may even do it badly. I admit this 
But the difference between these and those is this ; this 
one ^ selected by us, he is our man, he sees how (Ht. 
in what direction) we may remain pleased; while the 
other thinks thus: ‘what we think to be good must appear 
so to others, . What is there (with respect to which) we 
should listen to others ? I am so much educated, I get 
so much pay, I possess so much ability — why should I do 
anything which would be harmful to others?' The only 
answer is ‘Because [you] have such conceit.' [Laughter.] 
There* is one way, there is no rule about it. He v,'hose 
belly is pinched has no experience about it. This is the 
only cause of it, there is no other cause. Hence if you 
minutely consider the various complaints which have 
arisen in our country [it will appear that] the system 
which is subsisting now is not wanted by us. Not that 
we do not want the king, nor that we do not want the 
English Govfernmeiit nor that we do not wan t the Em- 
*Thii sentence is not clear in the original* 



t 13 ] 

peror. We want a particular sort of change in the 
system according to which this administration is carried 
oil, and I for one do not think that if that change were made 
there would arise any danger to the Knglish rule ( lit. 'king- 
dom). But there is reason (lit. room) to think that 
some people whose spectacles are different from ours 
may see it, because they say so [cheers]. Hence the 
minds of many people are now directed to the question 
as to what change should be effected in the system ac- 
cording to which the rule of the English Government is 
exercised in the above manner. We make minor de- 
mands, remove the {liquor Jr shop in a certain 

village named Ghodegoan; they would say it should 
not be removed. Done. [If it is said] reduce the salt 
tax, they say, we look to the amount of revenue drived 
*frdm salt duty. If this tax is reduced, how should it 
be managed there? But he who has to make the arrange- 
ment has to do these things. When I ask for the autho- 
rity to manage my household affairs, I do not say, give 
me the income which you obtain, and do not spend (it). 
We ourselves have to make the expenditure, and we too 
have to collect money: this is the sort of double (lit. 
united) responsibility which we want. Then we shall 
see what we have to do. Such is the dispute at present. 
Other bureaucrats come and say, act according to our 
wishes; we say, act according to our wishes so that all 
(our) grievances will be removed. We know that some 
times a boy obstinately asks for a cap of 25 rupees from 
his father. Had he been in his father’s place it is very 
doubtful whether he would have paid 25 rupees for the 
cap or not. The father refuses, but he [the boy] is 



[ 14 ] 

grieved at the time. And why is he grieved at it? Be- 
cause he does not understand (the thing): because the 
management is not in his hands. Hence the introduc- 
. tion of such an administration is beneficial to India. 
We want this thing to-day. When this one thing is got 
the remaining things come into our possession of them - 
selves. This is the one root of the thousands of things 
which we are asking for. When we get this key into 
our hands, we can open not only one but 5 or 10 doors 
at once. Such is the present question. It is in order 
that the attention of all may be directed to this question 
that this Home Ru^e I^eague was established here the 
other day. Some will be grieved at it; I do not deny it. 
Every one is grieved. It was said here some time back 
that^hen a boy is minor, the father when dying appoints 
a panch. The panch when appointed supervises the 
whole of the estate. Some benefit is also derived from 
this, (arrangement). This is not denied. Afterwards 
when this boy begins to become a Itttle grown up, he 
sees that there is something wrong in this. I must 
acquire the right of management, then I shall carry on 
better management than this. He is confident of this. 
Not that he actually carries on the management in that 
manner. Perhaps, if he be a prodigal he may squander 
away his father’s money. But he thinks as above. In 
order to avoid any opposition between these two, the law 
lays down the limitation that (on the boy’s) completing 
21 years (of his age), the trustee should cease his super- 
vision and give it into the boy’s possession. This thing 
which belongs to practical life applies also to the nation. 
When the people in the nation become educated and 



[ 15 X 


begin to know how they should manage their affairs, it 
is quite natural for them that they themselves should 
manage the affairs which are managed for them by others. 
But the amusing thing in this history or politics is that 
tiie above law about 21 years has no existence in politics. 
Though we may perhaps somehow imagine a law enjoin- 
ing that when you have educated a nation for a hundred 
years you should give its administration into its hands, 
it is not possible to enforce it. The people themselves 
must get this effected. They have a right fto do so]. 
Hence there must be some such arrangement here. For- 
merly there was some such,arrangejnent to a little extent. 
Such an arrangement does not exist now. And herein 
lies the root of all these our demands, the grievances 
which we have, the wants which we feel [and] the jficon- 
* veniences which we notice in the administration. And 
the remedy which is proposed after making inquiries 
about that root in the above manner is called Home Rule. 
Its name is sivarajya. To put it briefly, the demand that 
the management of our [affairs] should be in our hands 
is the demand for swarajya. Many people [lit even 
many people] have at present objections to this. I 
merely gave the definition in order to make [the subject] 
clear. The people on the other side always misrepresent 
it. . If .there be no mistake in the logical reasoning of 
what I have now said, how will any mistake arise unless 
some part of it is misrepresented ? Hence, those people 
who want to point out a mistake misrepresent some sen- 
tences out of this and find fault with it saying this is 
such a thing, this is such a thing. Hence, it is not the 
duty of a wise man to impute those things .to us which 



X 16 ] 


we never demand at all to censure us and in a manner 
ridicule us before the people. What more shall I say 
than this? [Cheers.] Hence, if any one of you has 
such a misconception, let him give it up. * At least 
remember that what I tell is highly consistent. 
It is in accordance with logical science.’ It agrees 
with history. I said that king means invisible king 
or Government — this constitutes no offence what- 
ever.* There are deities between. At several times 
God does not get angry ; these deities get angry without 
reason. vSome settlement is to be made with respect to 
.them. Hence if there» has arisen any such misconcep- 
tion it should be removed. I have told this for this 
purpose. Now I tell the nature of it to you. And even 
befor^^ that let us also consider a little the question 
whether we are fit for [carrying on] such sort of admi • 
nistratioii or not. Some time ago I gave you the ins- 
tance of panch and their ward. There generally it 
happens that as the boy grows up more and more, those 
who think that the management should not pass into 
other hands make reports that his head has now begun, 
to turn; another says that he is not mad, but that he 
appears to be half mad. The reason of this is that the 
management should remain in his hands for a couple of 
years more. A third says: ‘True, you may give autho- 
rity into his hands but do you know that he has got bad 
habits?' These [people] tell five or ten things about 
him. What is to be gained by doing this much? Then 
the dispute goes before the Court and then they get him 
adjudged mad. Some things like these have now begun 
* Thia senteooe ia noc oioar in the original. 



[ 17 ] 

to happen here. To give authority into people’s hands 
is the best principle of administration. No one disputes 
this ; because the same thing is going on in the country 
of those officials who are here. When they go there 
they have to advocate the same principle. Therefore 
no one says that this historical principle is bad. Then 
what is bad? They distinctly say that the Indians are 
not to-day fit for Swarajya [laughter], and some of us 
are like the rogues in the story of the three rogues occur- 
ring in the Panchatantra. That story is as follows: A 
villager had come taking a sheep on his head. One 
rogue said to him ‘There is a she -goat on your head.’ 
The second said ‘There is a dog on your head.’ Third 
one said quite a third thing. He threw away the sheep. 
The rogues took it away. Our condition is like that. 
This relates to human nature. There are am ^ag US 
people who are just like them. Why are we not fit ? 
Because fitness [has not been created in us. We have 
not done [it], our parents have not done it. We too have 
not got such powers. But the Government has given 
you some powers in the Council. Sinha [and] Chaubal 
are in the Council. In the Executive Councils of other 
places also there are selected people. When these peo- 
ple were selected for appointment, did any one ever say' 
[lit. write] “We are not fit, do not give us the post”, 
No one said. [Cheers]. What then is the use of saying 
[so] after coming to our meeting ? I shall consider that 
these people are speaking the truth if, when the bureau- 
cracy actually confers some great powers on them, they . 
stand up and say “We do not want them we are not fit 
for them,— the Brahmins alone must come and perform 
2 



I 18 ] 


Shraddha at our house we cannot perform it.*’ I think 
that those men who say such things because such and 
such a person would not like [any particular thing] and 
bring forward such excuses for that purpose, in a manner 
make an exhibition of their weak nature [cheers]. Why 
are we not fit ? Have we no nose, no eyes no ears, no 
intellect ? Can we not write ? Have we not read books? 
Can we not ride a horse ? Why are we not fit ? As a 
Jew in one of Shakespeare’s dramas — asked I ask you 
what have we not ? You have ''not done work. If it is 
not given at all, when are we to do it? [cheers]. Has 
it ever happened that we did ^not do work when it was 
given ? No one did then say, we are unfit, do not appoint 
us. You appoint them. You get work done by them 
and ^terwards it is also announced in a Government 
Resolution. *He has done his duty and so on.’* On the 
contrary going further, it is to be asked, you bring 
from England quite a new man of 21 years. What 
can he do? Has he any experience at all ? He 
comes all at once and straightway becomes Assistant 
Collector, and becomes the superior of a Mamlatdar 
though the latter be 60 years old. Wheret a Collector 
of 21 years? [cheers]. Is 60 years’ experience of no 
value? A man of 21 years comes and begins to teach 
you. Generally he makes this Mamlatdar of 60 years 
stand before him. He does not give [him] even a chair 
for sitting, and this poor man stands before him with 
jdhied hands because he has to get Rs. 150, 200, 400 
■ .d. 

^'iXhese worde otibur in English in the original. 
olMr In the original. 



[ 19 i 

[cheer J. How then is the Saheb to acquire experience, 
how is he to become fit, and how is the work [lit. cart] 
to go on? Has any one thought about this? Had it been 
true that the people of India are not fit for swarajya and 
that they would not be able to keep their kingdom in 
good order, then Hindus and Muhammadans would 
never have governed kingdoms in this country in ancient 
times. Formerly tl\ere were our kingdoms in this 
country. There were administrators. The proof of 
this is that before the advent of the English Government 
, in this country there was at least some order, there was 
I no disorder everywhere. tOne m34i did not kill another. 
Since there existed such order, how are we to say that 
the people are not fit [for powers] ? At the present 
time, science has made progress, knowledge hasyicreas- 
ed, [and] experience has accumulated in one place. 
Hence we must have more liberty than before'; and we 
must have become fitter. [But] on the contrary [it is 
said] we are not fit. Whatever might have been the 
case in former times, this allegation is utterly false. 
Better say, [it] is not to be given [cheers]. What I say 
is, don’t apply the words ‘not fit’ [to us]. At least we 

shall know that this is not really to be given. We shall 

• 

get it. But why do we not get it ? It is indirectly said 
that we are not fit. It is to teach you that we have come 
here. This is admitted. But how long will you teach 
us? [Laughter]. For one generation, two generations, 

or three generations ! Is there any end to this ? 

Set some limit. You came to teach us! When 

we appoint a teacher at home for a boy we ask him within 
how many days he would teach him^whether 10, 20 



r 20 ] 


or 25 years. Within two months, within four months. 
But if the study which should take six months for the 
hoy to finish would, he were to say, contrary to our ex- 
pectation, take one year, we tell him you are useless, go, 
we shall appoint another teacher [cheers J. Then in this 
manner, on the people — on all people. t These ofiicers 
have control over the people’s education and it is their 
duty to improve them: this duty remains on one side, 
they make attempts on the other side. They say that 
whatever attempts they make it is impossible for these 

people to become fit for this work [They are] 

men like you, as wise as yon. -You take them in service, 
get work done by them : it is not that you exercise less 
strictness. What is going on in the Khalsa territory ? 
There js no obstruction in the management. Is it obs- 
tructed in Mysore ? Who are doing the work ? The 
king of Mysore is a Hindu, the minister is a Hindu, the 
.subjects are, Hindus, the lower officers are Hindus. 
[They] carry on the administration of such a large king* 
dom as Mysore, but it is said that the people of the two 
districts beyond Mysore cannot carry it on in that manner 
[Laughter, cheers]. There are six districts in the Mysore 
territory, hence it is like saying that six are fit and eight 
are not fit. There is fitness in us beyond any doubt 
[cheers]. You may then, for some reason admit it or 
not. Well. What authority is there for thinking that 
we possess fitness ? I pointed to a Native State. I tell 

^^SbnteDCB incomplete in the original, 
t This sentence is incomplete in the original and th«> oona* 
trttct^n of the following six lines is not clear in the original. 



[ 21 ] 

another thing. Keep yourself aloof for it) years and see 
whether it can be done or not [cheers, laughter]. If it 
cannot be done take [us] under your control after ten 
years [cheers]. You are free [to do so]. This thing, too, 

is not to be done There is no swarajya. There is 

no swarajya. What does it mean ? What do we ask for? 
Do we say ‘Drive away the English Government ? 
But I ask what (is it) to the Emperor ? Does the Em- 
peror lose anything whether the administration is.carried 
on by a civil servant or by our Belvi Saheb? [Cheers]. 
The ^ rule still remains. The Emperor still remains.' 
The difference would bft that the white servant who 
was with him would be replaced by a black servant 
[cheers]. From whom then does this opposition come? 
This opposition comes from those people who^^are in 
power. It does not come from the Emperor. From the 
Emperor’s point of view their is neither anarchy nor 
want of loyalty, nor sedition in this. What does raja- 
droha [sedition] mean? Hatred of the King. Does 
King* mean a police sepoy? [daughter]. I said some 
time back that this distinction must first be made. 
Otherwise, [lit. then]. if tomorrow you say ‘remove the 
police sepoy’ would, it constitute sedition? Such is the 
belief of police sepoys [laugher]. In the same manner 
go up a‘ little and you will see that the demand made by 
us is right, proper, just , and conformable 'to human 
nature. The same has been done by other nations. It 
has not been ,done only in our country. Swarajya^ 
swarajya^Tf^ivX does it mean ? Not that you do not want 
the Ehglish rule. There is a mistake at the root. Some 
one has some object in it. This argument is brought 

7 



[ 22 ] 

forward by men whose interest lies in deceiving you. 
Do not care about it at all. 

‘If you think that you are men like other men, 
when they go to England their intellect and they are put 
to the test there. Therein we stand higher. What else 
then comes out? Your intellect may be good, but you do 
not possess character, courage and other qualities [and] 
their nature. I admit for a ghatka [24 minutes] the 
absence^ of nature. But it does not follow that it will 
not be acquired (laughter). How can their nature at 
all become such, whose life is spent in service and in 
service alone ? If it be said he ‘worked as a clerk for 25 
years, wrote on the cover ( sic ) the Saheb’s orders, ob- 
tained the Saheb’s signature thereon, and then he acqu- 
ired the^ habit after 25 (40) years^; still, he will at first 
find it difficult to do work this is not denied. But when 
the system under which such men are has disappeared, 
it cannot be said that men would not become fit in the 
next generation. Hence in my opinion we are fit for 
Swarajya, I shall now briefly tell you what we wish to 
obtain and what we should demand and conclude my 
speeech. 

“Yo kn(Jw of what sort the Indian administration is. 
But the thing to be told is that ?t Is carried on in accor- 
dance with a particular law. Its rules are fixed. What 
are the powers of the Secretary of State ? What are the 
powers of the Governor -General ? There are three great 
parts of the system! The Secretary erf Sjtate is in Eng- 
land. The Governor -General is at Delhi in India. 
Under him there is a Governor for a Presidency. For 

* The sentonos is not clear in the original. 



I 23 J 


the present let us omit those under him. But the main 
system is of the above three sorts. If we now begin 
to consider each, who appoints the Secretary of State ? 
Not we. This arrangement was made according to the 
policy of the Company’s government. When there was 
the Kast India Company’s rule in this country, all ma- 
tters were carried on on a commercial principle. The 
whole attention was^ directed towards ( the question ) 
how might the Company’s shareholders obtain a consi- 
derable profit; the Company’s Directors were in the place 
of the present Secretary of State. You might say that 
this was a contract given Jfor governing the entire king- 
dom. Under-the Peshwa’s rule Mamlatdar’s .offices 
were given under a contract. This Indian adminis- 
tration was, as it were, according to the then law of 
Government, a trade carried on by the East India Com- 
pany. They were to derive from it as much profit as 
possible. The Company’s Directors were to be in Eng- 
land. Their attention was directed to the fact that 
profit was to be given to the Directors, i, share-hol- 
^ders. A letter used to come to the Governor -General 
here to this effect:— So much profit must be paid to us 
thi.s year. Realise it and send it to us.’ This was the 
admini.stration. The people’s good was not (considered) 
in it. ( It was like ) the milkman and his cows. If 
the cows do not give milk, he says bring ( the pot ) 
after filling [it by pouring water in it. The adminis- 
tration of India was carried on like that. Subsequently 
it appeared after discussion that this administration was 
not of a good sort. And when Queen Victoria— you 
may say the Parliament— took the administration in their 



[ 24 ] 


hands, they did not approve of this trading system. 
They took it into their hands— this was one part. This 
system of administration has been -formed in accordance * 
with the commercial policy which was in existence when 
the administration was assumed (by the Parliament) 
and under which the Directors were in England and 
their servants were here. The State Secretary has come 
inthefplace of the Directors. The Governor -General 
(has) come in the place of their Governor. Thus what 
was done ? The Sovereign— the Parliament— took the 
administration into their hands, but the establishment of 
employees which then existed fhas remained just as be’ 
fore. This happened in 1858 after the mutiny. From 
that time to this the administration of India has been 
carried, on in accordance With rules and arrangement 
formed according to the Company’s policy. If it was 
really to go to the king. * As there was the sovereign 
this nature of the Company should have disappeared. 
He is the King and we are his subjects. It is his duty 
to rule for the good of the subjects. And an arrange- 
ment should be made in accordance with the rules- *■ 
lawful — that may be included in that duty. But this 
arrangement was made thus— the Directors went, the 
Secretary of State came in his place. Who is to decide 
how much money is to be spent in India and what taxes 
are to be imposed ? The State Secretary. Such powers 
are not placed in the Governor- General’s bands. He 
is the chief ofl&cer. The Governors are under him. He 
is a servant. There are other servants under him. 
And the entire administration must be carried on with 


* The Aeutencefis moomplete in the original. 



[ 25 ] 


the consent of, in consultation with and with the ad- 
vice of this State Secretary. Such is the present policy. 
What happened then ? Gradually. * This is but a com- 
mercial policy. Thouh the administration went into 
the hands of the Queen’s Government, and though they 
issued 'a great proclamation, the sovereign’s policy is 
notx)nthe lines of that proclamation. The sovereign’s 
policy is in accordance with the trading Company’s po- 
licy, the administration of the Kingdom is in accordance 
with the Company’s policy. And in the meantime the 
proclamation has no effect. [I^aughter, cheers] Such 
was the arrangement. A1: that time our people did not 
know [it] I think that had the spread of education been 
then as great as it is now, the people would have con- 
tended that since the Queen had taken the reins->of Go- 
vernment into her own hands, the administration of 
the kingdom should, as regards the sovereign and the 
subjects, be for the good of the subjects. Our people 
would then have told that the arrangement made by the 
Company was simply for its own benefit, and that a cha- 
nge must be made in that policy— in that arangement. The 
people continued to make these contentions fot many 
years. To put the matter very briefly, Mr. Dadabh^i 
Naoroji (cheers], who is one of those living persons who 
saw this arrangement and pointed out its defects, began 
this work. What beginning did he make ? He said 
'What is the difference between the Company’s [system] 
and this [system]? We do not [see] any ih it. The 
rules are all made in accordance with the Company’s 
policy. Are the people likely to derive any benefit 
* The sentence is incomplete in the original. 



L 26 ] 

f|pm them? ’ Then arose these I^agislative Councils. 
They were such that the Governor -General was to 
appoint us. Originally [the members] were not to be 
elected [lit. appointed] by the people. Gradually your 
men became members [ lit. officers] of the Municipality 
and of the lyegislative Council. Still the final keys are 
in their own hands. Discussion may be held in . the 
I^egislative Council. You have fijll liberty to hold a 
discussion. You may hold a discussion about spending 
the money in this country. We shall ^decide whether it 
should be [so] spent or not. Subject your mouth and 
mind to as much exertion ns possible, we have no 
objection to it. Be awake throughout the night, prepare 
yout speeches. Instead of prfnting them in a news- 
paper ,^we shall publish them in the “Bombay (Gover- 
nment) Gazette.” This is the only difference. Not- 
hing is got from this. The hope of getting is held 
out. There is a shlok (stanza) in the Mahabharat which 
says ‘hope should be made dependent upon time.’ Rights 
are to be given to you when you become fit. We do not 
wish to remain in India. When you become fit, we shall 
give the bundle into your possession and go to England 
by the English steamer (cheers). Such a time limit 
should by laid down. We shall give in two years. We 
shall give in ten years. Such a time came afterwards. 
Time shuld be coupled with obstacles.’ Ten years were 
mentioned. These days passed and were very wearisome. 
We are o}>liged to make them fifteen. ‘Hope and time 
should be coupled with an obstacle. An-obstacle came. 
You yourselves must have brought it. We did not bring 
it. We were awaiting good time (an excuse should be 



[ 27 ] 

coupled with it). The excuse came. How did it even 
come ? It is an excuse, nothing can be said about it. 
Some quite different cause should be shown. This is a 
sort of policy. When you do not mean to give, how do 
you speak ? It is not the case that this is written in the 
modern works on morality and politics. Only the old 
tradition has continued. Thus this bureaucracy has 
been cajoling us. Fot the last 5 or 50 years the State 
Secretary and the Govrnor-General too have been cajo- 
ling us in this manner — have kept us afloat. As soon 
as you proceed to make some noise, (it is said) there 
were five members, to-morfow we shall make them six. 
What is the benefit to us of raising the number from five 
to six ? One of our men is only to be made to pass time 
there for nothing for a few days (cheers), There^is no 
inore advantage than this. (If) you object to six (they 
say) we make them eight. We raise our 10 to 12, if 
necessary. (I^aughter and cheere.) The people are 
already convinced that this matter cannot be disposed of 
in this manner. Whatever rights you may have to give, 
give them to us absolutely, however great your own 
powers may be. If the management of the Educational 
Department alone be considered (it will be found that) 
most of the subordinate servants are from among us 
only. There is a Saheb at the head. Why is he kept 
there ? With a view to restrain their mouths and the/ 
scope of their intellect. Even if 20 years’ service be 
put in, the work will not be done without the Saheb, 
that poor man begins to say so. Such men are to be 

prepared Two distinctions are to be 

seen in these. When a gardener is asked by some one 



[ 28 ] 

to prepare a garden here beyond this (place) he looks 
for (flower) pots, when big forests are to be prepared 
under the Forest Department, pots are not required. Bags 
of seed are brought and emptied. Trees grow every- 
where to any extent. Some (of them) grow small, some 
big. This present arrangement is ilike that. Owing to 
this arrangement the trees amongst us do not grow. 
Nay, care is taken that the trees, planted in pots look 
pretty (and) their flowers can be plucked by the hand- 
He is educated in such a way that* such pretty trees 
may grow. In such a manner is he treated and made 
to work. And then after 25k or 30 years are past he 
begins to say ‘I am really not fit for this work.’ We do 
nat want this system. We want the English Govern- 
ment.^ We want to remain under the shelter (lit. umb- 
rella) of this rule. But we do not want the State 
Secretary who has been created as a son -in law (cheers) 
At least we want our men, (men) elected by us in his 
council. This is the first reform that must be made. 
Similarly it must be decided according to our opinion 
who is to expend India’s (revenues), how much money 
he is to collect (and) how many taxes he is to impose 
(cheers. ) We say, there must not be those taxes. They 
<^ill say how will the expenditure be met ? That we 
will see of ter wards. We know so much that expenditure 
is to be made according to the money (we) may have 
and (lit. or) that money has to be raised according to 
the expenditure undergone. We understand this. 
We will afterwards see what arrangement (should be 
made). The second principle of Home Rull is that these 

* TliU is not ol^ar in the original. 



[ 29 ] 

powers should be in the people’s hands, in the hands of 
good men, viz., in the hands of men elected by the people. 

At present such a (great) war is going on in Europe. 
The Emperor does not decide how much money has to 
be spent on the war. Mr. Asquith decides it. If there is 
a complaint against the work done by Mr. Asquith, it 
"goes before Parliament, and if Mr. Asquith has commited 
mistake, he has to tender his resignation. Will 
it be sedition if he has to tender his resignation? 

There is difference in the arrangement, there is 

difference in the organization, there is difference in the 
system. And we are asking for such a change in 
the system. The rule will fall, the rule will go away— 
these thoughts are utterly foreign to '“us, they do not 
come within our limits, our reach, our view. A^d we 
• do not also wish it. I again say, if the nation is to get 
happiness, if the thousands of complaints that have 
risen to-day are to be removed, then first of all, change 
his system of administration. There is a saying in 
»larathi ‘Owing to what did the horse become restive? 
)wing to wjiat did the betel -leaves rot? Owing to what 
lid the bread get burnt? There is one answer to it.’ 
OvfSng to not turning. The leaves ought to have been 
:urned, the bread ought to have been turned. JHad the 
iiorse been turned, it would not have become restive.’ 
The root of it is that, complaints about forests, complaints 
about Abkari, complaints about Kulkarni Vatans— 
(these have arisen ) because authority is not in our hand^ 
To state it in slightly changed words— because (we have) 
not swarajya (cheers) . That we should have 
for us is at the root of it. Then (we) need not danc 



[ 30 ] 


according to the wish of any one. This may happen 
even in swarajya, I do not deny it. When we have 
deficiency of money and powers are placed in your hands, 
you will increase the tax; you will increase (it) alto- 
gether voluntarily. Whence is the expenditure to be 
met? But as it will be increased voluntarily, it will not 
oppress our minds. lycarned aliens may tell us, when 
we are passing like this through this door, that we should 
not pass through this door but through that, but if 
any one comes and stands there and (begins to) tell 
us not to go through it, then we have to go out by 
giving him a push. The yery same is the case with 
swarajya. This is the obstruction of the bureaucracy. 
We do not want such obstruction. The demand ffor 
Swarajya is such that it has nothing to do with sedition. 
It has 'nothing to do also with the invisible Government. , 
This domestic arrangement should be managed by you 
yourselves and by doing so what will happen is that in 
the first place your minds will remain in peace. What* 
ever you have to do you will do with the thought that 
you are doing it for your good. Nay, you will alfio 
reduce the expenditure, I do not think that in any Native 
State a Collector does not* get a pay of twentyfive hundred 
Rupees. If there is any place in the world in which a 
man doing the work of a Collector gets the highest pay, 
it is India (cheers). To give 2,500 rupees as pay to a 
Collector would, under the former rule, have been like , 
giving an annual of Rs. 30,000 ? Have we ever 
given in our Swarajya such a jahagir of Rs. 30,000 ? 
Rs, 30,000 is not a small amount. There are reasons 


♦Sio, 




t 31 ] 

for it. What reason is given ? Bear it in mind that 
there is some reason or another for everything. This 
(man) has to send Rs. 2,500 to England for his children, 
etc. For your welfare (they) come from a cold climate to 
a hot climate (and) get their health spoilt. Must not 
then pay be given to them ? They have laboured so 
much, made such self-sacrifice, (and) suffered so many 
hardships, and you would not pay them money ? When 
this is once told it appears to be right at first sight. But 
now the principal question is, who told them to come 
^here from there? (Cheers.) We did not call (them). 
You do such work as you may be fit to do. We do 
(lit. may) possess as much fitness as you have, but we 
shall be able to do the work on less pay. Men can be 
had. Then why [give] so much pay to him ? We don’t 
need it. We think that we do not get lo-day^oney 
for education. The excuse of ‘no funds’ which is brought 
forward in connection with the execution of works of 
.public utility will first disappear. The business will go 
on unobstructed just as at present. In the beginning 
it will not go on so unobstructed. Perhaps it may be 
less by an anna in the ruppee. Still the good impression 
[lit. fine thing] that will be produced by [the thought] 
that the [business] has been carried on by the people, » 
of greater value. In this manner good management is 
to be asked for in this [administration]. Aniedment is 
to be brought about in the peresent law ; it is to be brought 
about through Parliament. We will not ask for it from 
others. We have not to get this damand complied with 
petitioning France. The Allies may be there, we have 
iwl to petition them. The petition is to be made to the 



[ 32 ] 

English people, to the English Parliament. This state 
[of things] is to be placed before them. We have to do 
whatever may be required for this. If you carry on such 
an effort now for 5 or 25 years, you will never fail to 
obtain its fruit. Moreover, such a time has now arrived 
on account of the war that is now going on that some 
such effort must be made as will increase the value of 
India, India’s bravery, India’s courage, and India’s 
stability. If the fact that they themselves are making 
this effort comes to the notice of Government, then there 
is hope of our demand soon proving fruitful. I have, 
therefore, purposely brought this subject before you. 
The subject is being discussed elsewhere also. The 
League which we have established for this purpose is 
such that I myself or some one els^e will have occasion to 
place ' the subject [before the people] at every place, if 
not to-day some days afterwards, for carrying on this 
work. Let this subject be always discussed by you, 
always think about it, get its usefulness explained, and 
carefully consider how much of loyalty and how much 
of disloyalty is in it. This is what I tell you on the 
present, pccasion. Though what I have to say may be 
much more than this still I have told you its substance 
in a brief manner. If the consideration of this begun 
among you, be begun in Maharashtra, be begun in India, 
then some day or other this work will succeed ; and even 
if this matter lies in God’s hands still it is necessary. I 
admit that it does not lie in our hands. But the effect of 
t action (lit. karma) cannot fail to take place in this world. 
The effect of action may not be obtained so soon I say 
may not be obtained before my eyes, perhaps I may not 



[ 33 ] 

be benefited by it. But this action must have its fruit 
(cheers). According to the law of action, when a certain 
action is done, another results from it, (and) a third one 
results out of that. Such succession goes on. Time 
will be required, there will be delay. But do we ask at 
all that we should have Mokshcf before our eyes? Again 
do we ask for it with the thought that we should have it 
it the hands of a certain person ? Only just now a 
Resolution was passed in our conference (that) the 
parties of Moderates and Nationalists are not wanted. 
That is to say, it is the same to us to whomsoever 
sivarajya is given. There i% no objection even if powers 
be given to your sepoy to-morrow. You may say, how 
will the sepoy exercise such a great power ? The sepoy 
is to die some day or other and then we will see (cheers). 
We wantjights. We want a certain sort of arrangement 
giving happiness. We will get it. Our children will 
gel it. Make the effort that is to be made. Be ready to 
do this work with the thought that it belongs to you.-^ 
lam sure that by the grace of God your next generation 
will not fail to obtain the fruit of this work, though it 
may not be obtained in your life-time (cheers). 

Mr. Tilak’s First Speech at Ahmednagar. 

3ls( May, 1916. 

Mr. Chaukar, Pleader, said : — 

Gentlemen, this is a very fortunate day for our town. 
To-day we shall have the benefit of listeningto Mr.. Tilaks 
(cheers) lectar like advice. Hence, without saying any- 
e., dellveraaod of the soul from the body. 


3 



t 34 J 

thing more about it now, I request you to hear, with undis- 
turbed mind and without making any noise his discussion 
of the subject on which he is going to speak and to make 
up your mind to act in accordance with it, and request 
you (referring to Tilak*) to begin your lectur (cheers). 

“Gentlemen, before saying a few words to you it is niy 
first duty to thank you very much. It is my first duty to 
thank you for the honour you have done to me by calling 
me here and for the address you have presented to me. 
Whatever the motive with which you have conferred the 
honour upon me, the few words, which I have now to tell 
you, relate to my work. Perhaps this may appear strange 
(lit. contrary) to you. You have called me here and 
(if) I make a statement about my own work before you, 
that would be a sort of impropriety. Should you think 
that Atr. Tilak came here and told people his own things 
(I say) I do not hesitate at all to tell them at this place 
since the things which I have to tell you are of as grate 
an advantage to you as they are to me. Till now con- 
troversies and discussions about the state of our conutry 
have taken place in various ways and at various places. 
What is beneficial to the people in general? Many things 
are beneficial. Religion, which relates to the other 
lyprld, is beneficial. Similarly, morality too is beneficial 
Provision for one's maintenance is beneficial. Our trade 
should expand, the population should increase, there 
should be plenty and that plenty should safely fall into 
ouf hands— all these things are desired by men. But it 

. * Th9e« word! are in EDglish and enoloaed in brackets in the 
original. 



[ 35 ] 

is not possible to discuss all these things in the short 
time allowed to me. I will, therefore, say a few words 
before you about such of the above things as are im- 
portant and are considered important by thousands of 
people (and) aboutt a subject which is now discussed* 
on all sides. This subject is swarajya (Cheers). Those 
things which relate to our homes we do, author- 
itatively in our homes. If I desire to do such and 
such a thing, if it be merely a private one, I have not 
to ask any one about it nor to lake anybody’s permission 
nor is it necessary to consult any one else. That is not 
the case in public matters.# As is our own good just so 
is the good of all people. If we consider how people 
would begin to live well and how they would attain a 
condition of progressive improvement we shall see that 
whatever things we take (for consideration), we are 
handicapped in consequence of there being no authority 
in our hands. If a railway is to be constructed from one 
place to another, that is not under our control. As for 
trade, I might talk much about giving encouragement to 
such and such an industry but it is not wholly in our 
power to acquire knowledge of that industry at the place 
where it is carried on to lesson the trade of those 
people in this country and increase our own trade.* 
Whatever thing we may take it is the same with it. We 
cannot stop [the sale of] liquor. There are also some 
things which are not wanted by us or by our Govern- 
ment, but the course of the general administration is 
such that it is not in our power to make any change,— 


it Th« oonstruotion o^t clear in the original. 



[ 36 ] 

th« slightest change,— in it. We have^till now made 
many complaints and Government have heard them ; 
but what is the root of all the complaints ? What things 
come in the way of improving our condition as we desire 
[and] what is our difficulty,— *th is has been considered 
for about 50 years past, and many wise people have, 
after cons^idering this thing, discovered one cause of this, 
which is that our people have no authority in their 
bands. In public matters, different [lit. many] people 
have different opinions. Some say, ‘Do you not possess 
authority ? Do not drink liquor, and [all] is done.* 
The advice is good [lit. sweetj indeed, but stopping all 
the people [from drinking liquor] cannot be done by 
mere advice. This requires some authority. He who 
has not got that authority in his hands cannot do that 
work. And if it had been possible to do the work. And. 
if it had been possible to do the work by mere advice, 
then we would » not have wanted a king. Government 
[administration] has come into existence for giving effect 
to the things desired by a large number of people. And 
as that Government is not in our hands, if anythingisdesi- 
red by thousands of you but not by those who control the 
administration, that thing can never ce accomplished. 
Thad come here on a former occasion. What about the 
famine . administration ( of that time ) ? When ( lit. on 
which day ) Government came to know that the weavers 
sustained great loss during famine, some steps were 
taken about it. We have lost our trade. The business 
of commission agency used to be carried on formerly ; 
it is not that commission agency (business) did not exist 
before, nor that it does not exist now. The business of 



[ 37 ] 

the agents is carried on at present. The difference is 
that while at that time you were the commission agents 
of our trade, you have (now) become the commission 
jigenfcs of the bnsiness men of England. You buy cotton 
here and send it to England and when the cloth made 
from it in England arrives, ycu buy it on commission 
and sell it to us. The business of commission agency 
has remained, but wjiat has happened in it is that the 
profit which this country derived from it, is lost (to us) 
and goes to the English. The thing (is) that the men 
and the business are the same (as before) but owing to a 
change in the ruling power, we cannot do some things. 
Such has become (the condition) that such things as wo- 
uld be beneficial to the country cannot be carried out. 
At first we thought that since the English Government 
was as a matter of fact alien, (and) there was no sedi- 
tion in calling them so, there would be no sedition what- 
ever nor any (other) offence in calling (alien) those 
things which are alien. What is the result of alienness? 
IJhe difference between aliens and us is that the aliensl 
point of view is alien, their thoughts are alien, and their 
general conduct is such that their minds are not inclined 
to particularly benefit those people to whom they are 
aliens. The Muhammedan kings who ruled here 
Ahmednagar ( Jl don’t call Muhammedan kings who 
ruled here at Ahmednagar ( I don’t call Muhammedan^ 
aliens) come to and lived in this country and at least 
desired that local industries should thrive. The religion 
may be different. The children of him who wishes t<j 
live in India, (also) wish to live in India. Eet them 
remain. Those are not aliens who desire to do good to 



r 38 ] 

those children^ to that man, and other inhabitants of f 
India. By alien I do not mean alien in religion. He 
who does what is beneficial to the people of this country, 
be he a Muhammedan or an Englishman, is not alien. 
‘Aiienness* has to do with interests. Alienness is cer- 
tainly not concerned with white and black skin. Alien- 
ness is not concerned with religion. Alienness is not 
concerned with trade and profession. I do not consider 
him an alien who wishes to make an arrangement whe- 
reby that country in which he has to live, his children 
have to live and his future generations have to live, may 
see good days and be benefited. He may not perhaps go 
with me to the same temple to pray to God, perhaps th- 
ere may be no intermarriage and interdining between 
him and me. All these are minor questions. But if a 
man is exerting himself for the good of India, and takes 
measures in that direction, I do not consider him an 

alien At first I thought that there was 

nothing particular in this. The Peshwa*s rule passed 
away and the Muhammedan rule passed away; (the 
country ) came into the possession of the English, but 
' the king’s [duty is to do all those things whereby the 
nation may become eminent, be benefited, rise, and be* 
borne the equal of other nations. That king who do&s this 
duty is not alien. He is to be considered alien, who does 
not do this duty, but looks only to his own benefit, to th^ 
benefit of his own race, and to the benefiit of his original 

country ....At fiirst hundreds of questions 

arose. Agricultural asssessment then increased, the 
Forest Department was organised in a particular mann* 
er, the Abkari Department was organised in a particular 



[ 39 ] 

manner, —About all these things we have been conslan- 
tly complaining to Government lor the past 20 or 25 
years. (But) no arrangements about the different de- 
partments, the different professions, the diflerent traded 
and the different industries, were made [accordingly]. 
This is the chief question of the past 50 years. While 
looking out for a cause of this, we at first believed that 
when we informed this Government of it, it would at 
once proceed to do as we desired. The Government 
is alien. It does not know ( the facts ). When 5 
or lU of our prominent men assembling , "'together 
tell Government, the latterVill understand it. It being 
alien, it cannot understand it. As soon as the Govern- 
ment is informed of this, it is so generous minded and 
wise that it will listen to what you have to say an^ red- 
re’ss (the grievances). Such was our belief. But the 
policy (lit. conduct) of Government during the last 50 
years has been the cause of the removal of this belief. 
However much you may clamour, however much you 
may agitate, whatever the number of grounds you may 
show, its sight is so affected as not to see the figures 
drawn from its own reports and set before it. The same 
arguments and the same grounds do not meet with its^ 
approval. If we say anything to it, it sticks only to 
what may be adverse to our statement. Perhaps some 
one may come and tell you that there is nothing to won- 
der at in this. Whether the Muhammedans or the Hindus 
or the Peshwas or the Emperor of Nagar may have been 
(may be) your rulers, those kingdoms have been broken 
up and now the rule of the English has been established.'^ 
Of course those people do just what is beneficial to thei^ 



[ 40 3 

Why then do you complain about them ? This is sure to 
happen. Such is the opinion of several people. This 
your outcry only becomes the cause of giving pain to 
Government and in a manner disturbing its mind. For 
this reason do not raise this outcry and accept quietly 
what it may give. Accept gladly what little (lit. quarter 
of bread) it may give and thank it. Such is the opinion 
of several people. I do not approve of this opinion. My 
opinion is that whatever be the Government whether 
British or any other, it has, as Government, a sort of 
duty to perform. Government has a sort of religious 
duty to perform; a sort af re^onsibility lies on its sho- 
ulders. I say that when a Gavernment evades this 
responsibility it is no Government at all. Government 
possesses authority. All the power possessed by Govern- 
ment, be it acquired by it by fighting or be it conferred 

(upon it) by the people * Still Government has a 

duty (to perform). As we have a duty, so those who 
are called Government have also a duty. They must do 
certain things. The Government has already admitted 
certain duties. Does not Government do such works as 
constructing roads, establishing Post-offices and telegra- 
phs ? It does. If tomorrow some one were to say ‘If 
Government does not construct roads, it is its pleasure. 
It may construct them if it likes, but not if it does not 
like,* then all of you who are assembled here we find 
fault with him saying, ‘If these things are not to be done 
by Government, why do we pay taxes ? If the Govern- 
ment will not utilise for the people*s conveniences taxes 


* The eentenoe is incomplete in the original. 



C 41 J 

levid from us, it has no authority to take any taxej 
whatever from us. Government take these for our ben 
-efit. When any persons argue before you that the Cover 
nment is good, what do they show ? The question is 
always asked ‘This our Government has constructec 
roads, made railways, established telegraphs and posi 
offices— are not these conveniences made for you ? Wh^ 
do you then raise an .outcry against Government ?* J 
do not say that these things have not been done, but thai 
those that have been done are not sufficient. Thes< 
things have been done, done well and have been done 
better by the British Goveimment than they would have 
been done by the former Governments — this is an honour 
to them. But should we not tell it to do these things 
which it does not do ? But that is not a real Govern- 
ment which considers itself insulted when told of those 
things which have not been done and a desire to do 
which is not apparent even now, which does not direct 
its attention to them though Ttold in many ways, and 
which thinks that we should not tell those things to it. 
What then is meant by a real Government ? This must 
be considered a little. There is a vast difference between 
the present system and the old system. At present an 
effort is being made to create a sort of erroneous conce- 
ption. • Neither the Collector nor the civilians arriving 
(here), who are called the bureaucracy in English, 
are Government. A police sepoy is not Government. 
■It does not constitute any sedition whatever to say, 
*Do something if it can be done, while maintaining the 
British rule which is over our country, without hafm being 
done to that rule and without weakening it.* We v^ant the 



[ 42 ] 

rule of theEnglish which is over us. But we do not want 
these intervening middlemen lit. Keepers of granaries 
(cheers). The grain belongs to the master, the provisi* 
ons belong to the master. But remove the intervening 
middlemen’s aching belly, and confer those powers upon 
the people so that they may duly look to their domestic 
affairs. We ask for swarajya of this kind. This swara* 
jya does not mean that the English Government should 
be removed, the Emperor’s rule should be removed and 
the rule of some one of our (Native States should be 
established in its place.). The meaning of swarajya is 
that explained by Mr. Khap&rde at Belgaum, viz,^ we 
want to remove the priests of the deity. The deities are 
to be retained. These priests are not wanted. We say 
appoint other priests from amongst us. These inter- 
vening Collectors, Commissioners and other people are 
not wanted. Who at present exercises rule over you ? 
The Emperor does not come and exercise it. He is in 
England. If some facts were communicated to him, it 
is his wish that good should be done to you. Why then 
is not good done to you ? Hence we do not want these 
priests (cheers).* Those people are clever. You say 
that no priest is wanted. They will say ‘We have passed 
Examinations. We do many things’. All things are 
true. But their attention is directed more to the remun- 
erationt belonging to the priest. Hence this priestly 
office should remain in our hands. The position of the 


* Tha word is .in Koglish in the original, 
t The original word is Yrityansh which means a oo-sbare of 
an estate, office or occupation ai a means of sttbsistenoe. 




t 43 ] 

Badwas} of Pandhar pur and these (people) is the same 
( cheers). § Will there be any loss to the Kmperor if the 
said priestly oflBce does not remain in the hands of the 
bureaucracy who are endeavouring to retain it ? There 
will be none. Some will say that the English people 
belong to the Emperor’s race. But after we have become 
the Emperor’s subjects he does not make any distinction 
between the English subjects and the black subjects. He 
does not wish to make it. The meaning of the words swa^ 
rajya is Municipal Local Self-Government. But that is a 
farce. It is not sufficient. When an order comes from 
the Collector, you have no obey it. He (Collector)* 
has power to meddle. He has power to call the President 
and tell him to do such and such a thing. If the Presi- 
dent does not do it, the Collector has power to ^move 
him. Then where is the swarajyal (cheers ).t The 
meaning of swarajya (as stated) above is retention of our 
Emperor and the rule of the English people, and the full 
possession by the people of the authority to manage the 
remaining affairs. This is the definition of swarajydl 
What we ask for is not that the authority of the English 
should be lessened, nor that the English Government 
should go away and the German Government shoul^ 
::ome in its place. On the contrary, the present war has 
Droved' and the whole world has seen that it is not our 
wish that the German Government should come here. 
Nay, in order that the rule of this Government should 

t The priest of Yithoba’s templs at Pandharpur. 

The word is in English in the original. 

* The word }s in English and onelosed in braokecs in the 
original. 



I 44 ] 

remain here permanently, thousands of our people are 
to-day sacrificing their lives in the most distant and cold 
climes (here, here, cheers ).t What is left then ? If in 
order that this rule may remain and that this rule should 
not go away and the rule of the German people should 
not come in its place, we pay money— be it according to 
our means— though we are not as wealthy as the Eng- 
lish I According to our ability, our fighting men are 

going (there) and sacrificing their lives and in this way 
exerting themselves. France, Germany and (lit. or) other 
nations commending and applauding them, [cheers, hear, 
hear] By shedding our blood have proved our desire that 
our loyalty to the English Government should be of this 
kind [hear, hear and cheers]. I do not think that any 
man pan adduce stronger evidence than this in his favour. 
Thus to-day it is an undoubted fact that we want here 
the rule of the English alone and accordingly we are 
exerting ourselves. If such is the state of things, why 
should not these intervening people who have been 
appointed be removed and why should we not get the 
rights possessed by the people in other places within the 
British Empire ? We are not inferior to them in point of 
bravery and education, we possess ability. Such being 
the case, why should we not get the rights? Why should 
the Emperor make a distinction between his black and 
white subjects ? Who has given such advice to the 
Emperor? The peculiar feature of the British consti- 


These words are in EDglish and enclosed in braoketi in the 
original. 

X The sentence is left incomplete here inthe original. 



[ 45 ] 

tution [lit. rule] is that the Kmperor acts on the advice 
of the people. Why should the ministers give him such 
advice ? At present those who possess power, i. e., the 
bureaucracy, are white. When a black man goes among 
them he too becomes like them. Under the present 
system, if a native on his arrival from England after 
passing examination be appointed to be a Collector, he 
after going among them becomes just like them. Do not 
think that I am speaking only about the white. We do^ 
not want this system. What does it matter if a man or 
two goes among them ? He connot do anything in 
particular. Therefore this*system must be done away 
with. We would not be satisfied by the appointment of 
one or two persons. Eet that be. Who introduced the 
system? The Emperor did not introduce it. ^The 
Queen’s proclamation as promulgated is of one sort [lit. 
on one side] and the, present system is of another sort 
[lit. on one side]. At present it is not all left in our ‘ 
hands to bring about our own good. Were we to think 
that encouragement should be given to swadeshi goods 
by imposing duty on certain imported foreign goods, that 
s not in our hands. Were we to think of starting such 
ind such industries required in this country [or] 
importing paid teachers from foreign countries, that 
thing is hot in onr hands. What a small thing this is ! 
ft is necessary that all people should know reading and 
pvriting. Whether a man be a Muhammadan or of any 
[other] religion or of any caste, he ought to know a little 
of reading and writing. This thing is now acknowledg- 
ed by all people throughout the world. There is now no 
doubt about this. By knowing reading and writing a 



[ 46 ] 


man derives at least some benefit. No one requires to be 
told of this anew. Then why is not that thing done 
here ? Because there is no money. Who gives this 
excuse ? This excuse is given by the bureaucracy. 
Their pay is Rs. 2,500 and if it is to be raised to 3,000, 
then there is money. The same was the case with 
exchange compensation. When the price of the rupees 
or [silver]* fell, six crores of rupees were brought out by 
Government on account of exchange. At that time 
money was found. Unless you have authority in your 
hands these things which are taking place cannot be 
got over. There is no morey for education, but [lit. 
and] there is money to pay a salary of Rs. 2,500 to the 
Collector. To whatever degree of clearness we speak 

about and tell this thing * Moreover the present 

bureaucracy does not consider that thing from the point 
of view from which we would consider it if authority 
were to come into our hands. At first we were told that 
money should be spent on education. When people being 
to know how to read and write the number of offences 
committed falls by the thousands, they carry on their 
dealings well ; they understand what is of advantage 
and what is of disadvantage to them. When people 
•become fit in this manner an ofi&cer of Rs. 2,500 will 
not be necessary to govern them. One of Rs. 500 will 
do and we shall be able to spend Rs. 2,000 on education. 
In no other country are there so highly paid officers at 
present. The Viceroy who comes to govern India 


• The braoketf ooour here io the origioel, 

* Sentence inoomplete here in the origioel. 



[ 47 ] 


gets Rs. 20,000 a month, while the Prime Minister of 
England gets Rs. 5,000. He who remaining in England 
manages the affairs of the whole Empire gets Rs. 5,000, 
while he who carries on the administration of India here 
gete Rs. 2o. 000. Why so ? There is no answere to 
this. This is so because this thing is managed at the 
[cost of others (lit. direct) (cheers).* This is India. 
^Go and eat. If any -shop belonging to other people is 
'made over to you for management, you will pay the 
employee a salary of Rs. 100 if he belongs to your com- 
munity or caste while you would pay him a pay of Rs. 
50 in your own shop.t In Ais way the present arrange 
.ment is being carried on. We are not at all benefited bj 
this arrangement. Thus it is not the case that thesi 
things have come to our notice for the first time. ^It ii 
50*years since the things came to our notice. When thi 
National Congress was held at Calcutta in 1906, Mr 
Dadabhai Navrojy [cheers] stated this distinctly. H 
gave it as his 50 years’ experience that for counteractiiij 
this present irregularity and the sort of injustice that is 
taking place in India, there is no other remedy than 
that the power should pass into the people *s hands. He 
called it Self-Government. And in the hands of the 
people. + We must decide upon the arrangment as re- 
gards what is to be done in our homes, what is to be 
done in our villages, what is to be done in our country 
and what is to be done in our presidency. If we decide 

* This word ocours in English in the* original. 
tThe construction of this sontonoe is oonfased in the originol. 

But the general sense appears to be as given. 

t These words ha vs no oonoeotion with what follows. 



L 48 J 


about this, it will be done at a small cost, it will be done 
well, and our decision as regards in what matter we 
should expend more money, and in what matter less, 
will be more beneficial to the people. The bureaucracy 
says that we do not possess knowledge as if they alone 
possess it. Their first look-out is to see how their pay 
will be secure. When money comes into the treasury the 
expense on occount of their pay piust be first defrayed. 
Their military expenditure must be first defrayed. They 
must be first fully provided for. If money remains after 
this, it is to be applied to education. They do not say that 
education is not wanted. Education is not a bad thing 
in their eye. But the people are to be educated and 
there other conveniences are, if possible, to be looked to 
after ^11 (the above) expenditure is defrayed. This is 
to be thoitght of afterwards. We shall first consider 
whether Lyou could] manage things or not if power were 
to come into your hands It you think that more pay 
has to be paid to these people then reduce it and tell them 
that they will have to do the work for the country. When 
all these things will be considered in this manner, we 
shall have in our hands the opportunity of bringing 
about those things which it is desirable to bring about, 
^his is mere speculation [lit. consideration]. Where 
is your difficulty? There is a common saying in Marathi: 
A certain man asked three questions. Why (lit. where) 
does the horse become restive, why did betel leaves rot — 
the story cccurs in the third book: it was there formerly, 

I do not khow whether it is there now.— He garve a single 
answer to two or three such questions, i^hich is, ‘owing 
to not turning/ Similarly, (why) is (not) the consum: 



[ 49 ] 

• 

ption of liquor reduced in our presidency, why are the 
people subjected to zulutn in forests, why is money not 
available for education ?— All these questions have one 
answer and it is this : ‘Because you have no power in your<^ 
hands’ [cheers]* and so long as this power wil not come 
into your hands, so long there will also be no dawn 
of your good fortune. Whoever may be the Emperor we 
speak not anything about him. But we must do those 
things which relate to business, trade, religion and 
society. Unless the power of doing those things comes 
partially into our hands— in the end it must come fully— 
unless it comes fully into (jur hands, it is impossible for 
us to see a time of plenty, the dawn of good fortune, 
advantage or prosperity. Water cannot be drunk 
with others’ mouths. We ourselves have to drink it. 
Similar is the present arrangement that of drinking with 
others’ mouths. We ourselves must draw our water— 
the water of our well— and drink it. If that well 
belongs to Government a tax of a rupee a month may, 
if necessary, be paid. But we want power. There 
are no means of salvation for us unless we have 
it in our possession. This principle of politics is almost 
settled— proved— from the .point of view of history, mora- 
lity and social science. Now (lit. then) you may ask 
why it was told to you for so many days. I have to say 
a few words about this. That power should come into 
our hands or the time of its coming into your hands is 
approaching (lit. beginning to be seen^4 Up till now the 
generality of people in England thought of deriving as 

* This wordvateurs in £ngliih in the original. 

t Sontf nooil not io.fho <^riglniah 

4 




[ 50 J 

much profit from India as possible [and that] India was 
a sort of buiden to them. The people in England used 
to think that the 30 crores of people in India would over- 
throw their rule some time or other [that] they should 
be disarmed [and that] they must be kept in slavery and 
under control as much as possible. But that condition 
is now changed. Owing to the war which is now going 
on in Europe, it has begun to be thought that unless all 
^the many parts of the British Empire unite, together, the 
Empire would not attain as much strength as it should. 
It has so happened now that a consciousness has been 
awakened in them that they stafnd in need of aid from other 
countries called colonies belonging to them — Australia, 
Canada, [and] New Zealand, which are inhabited by 
Sahebf. If you take advantage of this awakened con- 
sciousness, you too have this opportunity of acquiring 
some rights. No one tells you to obtain these rights by 
the use of the sword. But to-day the nation's mind has 
undergone a change. India can give some help to 
England. If India be happy England too will acquire 
a sort of glory, a sort of strength and a sort of greatness. 
This consciousness has been awakened in England. If 
no advantage is taken of this awakened consciousness at 
ftiis time, such an opportunity will not occur again. 
The bureaucracy considers this to be bad. Who will be 
the loser in this ? Not the Emperor, but the bureau- 
cracy. They, therefore, consider this thing to be bad, 
and they are now telling [lit. advising] us that we are 
not fit for swarajya^ and that, therefore, they have come 
here. As if there was no swarajya anywhere in India 
when they were not here ! We all were barbarians and 



[ 51 1 

ready to cut each other’s throats. There was no system 
of administration under the Peshwa’s regime 1 There 
was no system ot administration under Muhammadan 
regime ! We were not able to carry on State adminis- 
Nation, we were not able to construct roads. We did not 
know how the people might be happy. Nana Phadnavis 
Wasa fool, Malik Amber was a fool, Akber and Aurang- 
ifceb were fools. Therefore these people have come here 
for your good and you are still children [laughter]. I^et 
us admit for a moment also that you are children. When 
are you now to become grown up ? In law when one 
attains his 21st year, one is considered to be grown up. 
though these [people] have ruled over us for 50 years 
*We have not been able to become grown up. What then 
^di4 they do for 50 years ? If the people of India •were 
Children whose duty was it to educate [lit. make wise] 
them? It was their duty. They were the rulers. I go sa 
far as to say that they have not done their duty — hencej 
^ot only are we children, but they are unfit to rule 
cheers]. This alone is good that those people who 
ould not improve [the condition of] their subjects during 
0 years should give up their power and make it over to 
thers. If there be a manager of y 9 ur shop and if he 
erformed’the duty of munim for 50 years, but there was 
nly loss continuously for 5o years, what would you tell 
im ? Sir, give up your place and go away. We shall 
)ok to our own management. Another may be of a 
)wer grade. Though he may be less clever, he will at 
sast know that in managing a shop there should at least 
e no loss. This at least he must know. What [those] 
eople tell us, that we have not become fit, proceeds 



L 52 ] 

from selfishness. If what they say be true, it is in a way 
disgraceful to them. They are being proved to be unfit. 
And if it be false, they are selfish. We can draw no 
other conclusion from this than the above. What is 
meant by *we are unfit' ? What is the matter with 
us ? Our municipal management is tolerated. If 
someone comes from England after passing examina- 
tion and becomes a Collector that is tolerated. They 
discharge their duties and Government commends them. 
But when the rights of swarajya are to be given to the 
people, to tell all people, crores of people plainly, that 
they are unfit [lit. to give a certificate of unfitness] is to 
make an exhibition of one’s own unfitness [cheers]. * 
Besides this, objections of many other sorts are taken 
agaipst swarajya. In the first place, I have already said 
they unhesitatingly [lit. atonce] decide that the whole* 
nation is unfit. If we say, ‘hold an examination* no 
examination too is held. Unfit, unfit— -what does it 
mean ? Set your men to work and set our men also to 
work. See whether they do or do not work properly. 
No opportunity to work is given and yet we are called 
unfit. Are even those, who have been given an oppor- 
tunity, found unfiy There are members in the Eegisla- 
tive Council, are they unfit ? Have they ever called 
themselves unfit ? Have you ever called them unfit ? 
No what does then unfit mean ? You don’t mean to 
give. In order to say there is no buttermilk, is deceit 
necessary ? To-day being Sunday, there is no butter- 
milk— such is the shuffling that is going on now. I want 

* Thlt word 19 fn flngUsh in the original. 



[ 53 ] 

to ftsk you whether you without allowing that shuffling 
are prepared or not to make a resolute demand. If you 
are not prepared to ask, if you do not make urgent solici- 
tation about this, — if you throw away the present oppor- 
tunity, such an opportunity will not come again for 100 
years. Therefore, you must be prepared. I know that 
if after being prepared we spoke a little forcibly, some 
police sepoy may say, *0 you (this is not unlikely). 
But it must be put up with. There is no help "for it. 
We have no power in our hands. We can not say to 
the police sepoy, ‘yo^ are a fool, go back.* He obeys 
the Police Inspector’s ordet;. But I can tell you that if 
you people of all castes and religions, become united and 
at this time make this demand of Government resolutely 
and unitedly pi;^s (it) earnestly, be prepared to* beat 
•any expense that may be necessary for this, (and)*pro- 
claim not only to Government but to the whole world 
that unless your demand be granted you would not be 
satisfied nor remain contented, — if you possess so much 
resoluteness I am sure that by the grace of God you will 
not fail to have the demand granted to you pretty soon. 
This will be (lit. is) the fruit of your resoluteness. 
Whether in religion or in politics, resoluteness is requir- 
ed and that resoluteness of mind does not come without ' 
courage. It will not do to say ‘How will it be? Whether- 
good or evil may result, we want this very thing. We 
will ask for this very thing. For this we will collect 
money and undergo any expenditure or exertions that 
may be necessary and we will not stop this agitation till 
this— our demand is fulfilled. If this work is not com- 
pleted within our life-time, our children also will keep 



L 54 J 


up this same agitation. When there is such devotion 
for this work, only then fruit will be (lit. is) obtained. 
Without devotion, no fruit is abtained from God, from 
King, in this world or in the next world. If you do not 
possess this devotion, no fruit will be obtained though 
strenuous exertions be made in this manner. First, devo- 
tion is required. Both rich and poor must possess devo- 
tion. The poor must help in their own way, the rich 
must help in their own way. Tho*se who possess intelli- 
gence must help by means of intelligence. Every man 
must bear this thing constantly in mind. If you do not 
bear this (lit, such) thing constantly in mind, if you do 
not prepare yourself to mafc exertions, then it will be 
sheer folly to blame others for failure. Perhaps the 
wordf folly may have been disliked, (by you) I uttered it 
in tlKJ heat (of speaking). But my firm belief is that we 
have not yet begun to make efforts as strenuously, as 
earnestly and as devotedly, as we should have. If a 
Saheb were to ask (lit. tell) whether there would be 
confusion or not if powers were given to us, we say yes, 
yes. We have no men ! The men are not prepared I 
And then we laugh at the Saheb in our house ; we must 
laugh there (cheers) (laughter.)* It will not do to 
( laugbi in our house. The reply must be given just to his 
jace. We must be prepared to maintain the things which 
we consider to be true and tell them to the people, to the 
oflScers. and even to the Emperor. On the day on which 
you will be ready (to do this)— particularly in these 
days after tue war is over— the administration shall have 


These words occur in English in the originel. 



L 55 J 


to be changed in some respects at least. If the adminis- 
tration be like the present, England cannot grant any 
authority among European nations.* At present Eng- 
land is the most powerful of all. The English Govern- 
ment is the most powerful, but to keep it so, change 
must necessarily be made in the present administration. 
As a matter of fact they say, ‘make that change,’ India 
does not say that the change should be made. Some 
defects or others are f6und therein. I stand up to-day ; 
another will stand to morrow and say that your good 
does not lie in this. The arrangement which exists at 
present is itself good. There is the benign Government. 
The bureaucracy is wise. Therefore if you act in accor- 
dance with their principles, that would be well. This 
is not the condition of traders (lit. this condition does not 
apply to traders). This is not the condition of inteUigent 
people. This is not the condition of people of any re- 
ligion such as Musalmans, etc. It is not the case that it 
applies only to one class, only to Muhammadan mer- 
chants. The thing which I am going to tell is not fo; 
Musalmans, for Hindus, nor for traders. It applies to 
all. There is only one medicine for all people. That 
medicin^ ^ pow er ; take (it) in your possession, when 
it into your possession, if there be any dispute^ 

between you and us, we would be able to settle them. 
After the power has come into our hands there would be 
much time to settle them. If there be any difference of 
opinion in religious beliefs, that too we will remove. We 
want power for this. We want power to settle disputes. 

* Thif eenteilot ii not clear in original* 



[ 56 ] 

It is not wanted for increasing them. Aliens do not know 
as much as we do what we have to do for our country. 
Their point of view is different. Hence, British Govern- 
ment being maintained at the head, one and the same 
Emperor will rule over India as he does over the British 
Empire. But introduce here an arrangement similar to 
I'that in other Colonies. There in those Colonies, they 
Ihave got in their own hands all tjie power, the right of 
* ownership, (and) the power to make laws*. That does 
not affect the Emperor. There is no attempt to overthrow 
the British Government. But this is an attempt to make 
the British rule more pleasing^to the people. Some people 
will lose their means of maintenance, that is not denied. 
We do not think that the Emperor has reserved India for 
those people. The present arrangement has come into 
existeiice for some reason. It must go away. The Eir' 
peror ought to give powers into the hands of the people, 
and without making any distinction between Indian 
and British subjects, between the white and the black 
subj’ectst. As they are the Empei-or’s subjects, so are 
we too his subjects. We must become as happy as they. 
The thing which some wise, learned and thoughtful 
people have now decided to be the key of all these, is 
Mtvarajya, The time for it has now arrived. I have ex- 
plained to you the meaning of it. I have told you how 
its time has come. But though all (things) may exist, 
j^'OUT resoluteness is the final thing. The opportunity, 
(1ft. time) which has come, will be lost. Though the 
arrangement of which I speak be in contemplation, you 

* This sentenea it inoomplett io th® original. 

t thia tentenoe it inoomplttt in the orisinal. 



[ 57 ] 

will not get. There must be resoluteness on your part. 
Fortunately the thing, about its acquisition is that an 
agitation of this kind has now begun. Recently we have 
established at Belgaum an institution to work for swa- 
rajya. An institution has been established in Madras. 
This subject is already before the Connress and it will 
dispose of it one way or the other. But though the sever- 
al provinces make their arrangement and render help to 
them.* At least (you) must show so much courage that 
if some one the Collector Commissioner ; etc. were to 
ask ‘what do you want* ? (he should be told) ‘We want/ 
power, there must be power in our hands*. Government 
servants should be considered to be peoples’ servants. 
Do not think that when in future power comes into your 
hands, you are not to entertain Europeans as sejvants. 
If he can work well, we shall keep him, and we shall 
pay him what we may think proper. But he must be 
our servant, we are not his servants. If we entertain 
this desire and make efforts for it, then this is capable of 
accomplishment. For this give the help that may be re- 
quired. Be prepared to render such assistance as may 
be required to those who may come to speak to us in co- 
nnection with this. And when you are thus prepared-— 
people of different places, not only of Bombay, Poona* 
Nagar, but also of Bengal, Madras etc. — if people of all 
places be prepared, this thing is feasible. To accomplish 
it, to accomplish it soon, begin to work for it. Having 
told this much to you, and expressing hope that the time 
for India to see soon some fruit or other in accordance 


Not olear in the original. 



[ 58 ] 

with the above will arrive, and asking your forgiveness 
for any mistakes I may have committed in my lecture or 
for my taunting words that I may have uttered respec- 
ting you, I thank you heartily [cheers]. t 


Lok. Tilak’s Second Speech at Ahmednagar. 

1st June 1916^ 

Place : Old Cloth Market, Nagar. 

Time : 9 — 15 P. M. 

Mr. Chaukar requested Mr. Tilak to deliver his 
lecture (cheers). 

Lok. Bal Gangadhar Tilaksaid: — (Ashout of ‘Tilak 
Maharaj-ki jaya’) “I had thought that I would probably 
not haVe to deliver another lecture after the one delivered 
here yesterday. On that occasion I have already told 
as many of the two or four common things about szva- 
rajya as could be told within an hour. But this subject 
is such a one that, not only one, but even ten lectures 
on it will not suffice. Therefore I am to-day going to 
speak again about two more things about swarajya which 
were not told yesterday, in such a way that the ve^y 
Slime subject would be made more clear, would be better 
understood and the peoples’ ideas (about it) would be 
more distinct. My general opinion is that what reforms 
we want are reforms relating to swara/ya. You may 
perhaps know the story (lit. maxim) about the old wo- 
man. It is to the following effect : That old womon, 


The words is in the original. 



[ 59 ] 


after the deity had been propitiated, considered as to 
what she should ask, and prayed for the following boon: 
The deity should give me such a boon that I would 
actually see my grandsons dining in dishes of gold, that 
is to say she should remain alive till that time, that she 
should have a son, that he should earn wealth, etc. ect. 
In this small boon the whole object is included. Similar 
is the case of swarajya. If we do not get swarajyay there 
will be no industrial ‘progress, if we do not get swarajyay 
there will be no possibility of having any kind of edu- 
cation, useful to the nation, either primary or higher. 

If we do not get swarajyuy it will not be merely to ad- 
vance female education or secure industrial reform or 
social reform. All these are parts of swarajya. Powers 
is wanted first. Where there is power there is wisdom. 
Wisdom is not separate from power. If it be, it becomes 
useless. In no nation this proposition is required to be 
made particularly clear. But it is required to be ex- 
plained in a particular manner to our people. The reason 
of this is that there is no swarajya in our country. Some 
people raise this objection against our party : Why do 
you not effect social reform ? This is said not by us but 
by those who do not mean to give rights of swarajya to 
us, but . wish to transfer the train of our agitation fropi 
one track to another. There are many people who have 
effected social reform among themselves. Social reform 
is thoroughly introduced in Burma. There is one reli- 
gion. There the people are prepared for anything. Their 
children marry any one they like. But that country is 
wholly immersed in a state of dependence. There is no 
spirit of nationality in respect of anything there. Then, 



L 60 j 

what is wanted ? We are one nation. We have a duty 
|to perform in this world. We must get the rights which 
Ibelong to man by nature, we want freedom. We must 
have in our hands the right of carrying on our affairs. 
If you do not get these things, no reform would be fruit- 
ful for you. That is the root of all reforms. No power 
no wisdom. Mere book-learning is useless. If you be- 
lieve that the people who have come to rule over us are 
superior to us in intelligence and learning, such is not 
my own belief. We can show as much learning, as 
much courage, as much ability as they. Perhaps they 
may not be apparent now, but they are in us. There 
are conjunctions in history as well as in astronomy. 
When the Muhammadan rule was declining, the Mara- 
thas had only recently risen. Afterwards, the English 
having set foot in this India, the whole power has passed 
into their possession, and their power is the cause of the 
admiration which we feel for them and the pride— be it 
true or false — which we feel for their ability. And when 
even a small portion at least of this power comes into 
your hands, then your wisdom will be of any use. Many 
things are now wanted by us. Our industries must be 
improved. But why was it stopped ? Who stopped it ? 
If we begin to look out for the cause of this, (it will 
appear that) we did not stop this industrial reform, we 
did not stop this economic reform. In that nation, in 
which there is a way and there is liberty to rise and to 
show one’s ability, good qualities flourish. If you possess 
wisdom, when you assist some great ojficer and he com- 
mends you, then you think that you possess ability. 
Thil^ is a sort of fe ebje - m indedness— want of spirit— and 



[ 61 ] 

it has enveloped the whole nation. You say ‘I cannot 
do it.’ You never did it, no one gave you sanad : even 
before it you make an outcry that you cannot do such 
and such a thing. Saying so they take to some other 
path. In my opinion it is a great misfortune that, in our 
Maharashtra at least, some people should bring forward 
this excuse in the above manner and come in the way of 
the agitation which is carried on for the acquisition of 
the rights of swarajya. Have we not done these things ? 
Think of this, Maharashtra certainly possesses a quality 
that can be utilised for the nation. But at the present 
time we do not get an opportunity of making use of that 
quality, and our mind does not turn to some other thing, 
such as female -education or this or that thing, (simply) 
because that opportunity is not given to us (cheejs). If 
Siny one else sees any danger in this he may do it, but 
my mind cannot be convinced, has not been convinced, 
nor do I think that it will be convinced during the few 
years that are left (cheers). It is vain to speak of other 
subjects. At present our people are not endowed with 
heroism, courage and learning, when our women are 
educated their generation will become of that sort, but 
even that is to arise from our own seed (cheers). If 
any one has such a belief (as the above) that is wrong. 

I do not say that female -education is not wanted but 
when they tell us to turn to it, in order to stop this 
agitation on this side then we say this is a remedy to kill 
the nation. If you do not possess strength, if you have 
no pluck to acquire anything, it is quite foolish to take 
an educated wife and say that the issue begotten of her 
would be of the above sort and that ^hose our sons would 



[ 62 ] 

make some exertions in order to discharge the obligation 
(under which they would be to us) (cheers). You must 
stand on your own legs. You must bring about these 
things. And you must first bring about the chief of those 
things. The experience of those who have made exertions 
for the past fifty years is that this swarajya is the key to 
all (things). And if this does not cotae into your 
hands,* then (if you say) ‘We shall effect this reform after 
making exertions (for) minor (reforms).’ If you mean 
to effect (it thus) do so, I have no objection (to it.) 
But that will not be helpful to this (s7varajya) . t is not 
helpful to this course. And I am to speak again to-day 
on the same subject on which I spoke yesterday in 
accordance with the same opinion. Yesterday I told 
(you) ‘ what S7varajya means. By swarajya it is not 
meant that the English should be driven away. It does 
not matter whoever may be the king. We have nothing 
i to do with the king. When we get our rights, that is 
^ suffieicnt. And whoever might be the king over (us), 
those rights can be obtained. There is a king in England. 
But have the English people rights or not? The King 
of England is himself an Emperor. Hence, if, while 
his kingly position is maintained in England, the Eng- 
lish people obtain rights of freedom, then what difficulty 
^s there in our obtaining the rights of British citizenship, 

' the same King continuing to be Emperor in India? No 
difficulty of any sort remains. This dark hnputation 
which is made, viz. that the agitation about Home Rule 


* Not olear in the original; the aentenoe ia left iooomplete. 
t Theae braoketa are in the original. 




[ 63 1 

— swarajya—is seditious and in the belief of which as 
sedition a security of 2,000 rupees was taken from Mrs. 
Annie Bssant the other day — this imputation, this acc- 
usation, does not come from the Kmperor or from the 
subjects, but from the intervening granary -keepers 
(cheers). The duty which you have to do is that this 
administration must be changed. The King need not be 
changed. Unless the system — the arrangement — accor- 
ding to which the present administration is carried on is 
changed, every man in India will become more and more 
effeminate. The duty which we have to perform is 
that.* Some people say, ‘what does it matter if there 
is slavery? It is not that (they) at least give to eat? 
(They) do not (starve) any one to death. + Kven the 
beast and birds get to eat. To get to eat is not 
tlie aim of man. To feed the family is not the end of 
man. ‘Even a crow lives and eats offerings.' A crow 
maintains himself. They have not to rise crops. They 
get every day cooked rice to eat. I do not consider It 
manliness merely to maintain oneself and fill the belljl 
to obey the commands of the king after accepting thosf 
posts which may be kept open within the limits laid 
down by him (and) to maintain oneself according to his 
direction. This nature is common to beasts and men. 
If there is required the quality of manhood in man, then 
it must be seen whether there is any scope open for oui^ 
intellect, our ability, our courage and boldness. Such 
scope is not open for India. Therefore, if we have 


This sentence is iacomplete in tho original. 
The word may also mean kill* beat. 



[ 64 ] 

any duty (to perform) then the first duty is, take 
a portion of this authority into your possession, it 
does not matter if you take a little portion of it ; as 
the President ( Mr. N. C. Kelkar, President of the Nugar 
District Conference) has said briefly, if we do not entertain 
the hope of being free to act (in matters of) spending 
our own money, deciding according to our own under- 
standing according to the consent of five or ten men as 
to what purpose the tax which we pay is to be applied, 
then, according to the law of nature this kind of hope or 
thought which is in the minds of men will gradually 
lessen and to that extent we ;ihall more and more des- 
cend to the level of beasts. Sivarajya^ swarajyuy what 
does it mean? And what will be the (effect) of it? Does 
swara\ya mean that one Collector removed and yours 
has come? If the native Collector remain and the 
English Collectors come, we want them.* There is 
no objection to say, remove such and such a man (and) 
make such and sugh an arrangement in such and such 
a place. Perhaps, a white man when paid will be a 
servant of us too; if he be good we shall also keep him. 
The question is not at all about individuals. The ques- 
tion is about the nation. The chief question is whether 
e certain nation is to be treated like beasts or conside- 
ring the people in the nation to be men, their sentiment, 
their desire for liberty is to be bent in some [direction] 
(and) they are to be brought and placed in the rank of 
civilized nations. And (if the matter) be considered 
from such a standpoint, then there is no other way (to 


^ Thii sentenoo i9 not in tht original. 



I 65 J 

, accomplish this) than (the acquisition of) Swarajya, than 
the possession of authority. When that authority will 
once come into our hands then we shall be able to do 
thousands of things. Sucb a great attempt was made at 
Poona (to close) a liquor shop of Ghoda.— which may 
be bringing a revenue of a thousand or two to Govern- 
ment. But it is not under our control to close it. Why 
is so much correspondence* (required) to (decide) that 
a liquor shop should be started at a certain place or 
should not be started (there) ? I think that the annual 
profit of the shop may not be equal to [the price of the] 
paper that may have been used in connection with all 
this business (laughtert hear hear). This business 
which goes on in the present system should be put a 
stop to, this high-handedness should be ended and the 
authority should come into our hands. By the authority 
coming into our hands the hereditary qualities which we 
possess will be heightened. We shall find a way to 
make a use of those qualities in some way or other. That 
(is) swarajya, Swarajya^ is nothing else’ What if it be 
to a small extent ? It does not trouble you. It does 
not trouble you as much as it should. (If it be said), 
one sits at home, does some business or other, gets some 
money maintains his children, — this much will suffice,, 
wherefore should there now be the movement for swarajyal 
The only answer to this is the one idea in respect to the 
nation, viz., that there is in this world something more 
than ourselves, that there is one more duty of bringing 
about the good of a gr eater number then yourself— this 
*. The word is in English in Ihe original, 
t In English. 

5 



[ 66 J 

duty you have begun to forget. There was a time when^ 
in this country, among the succession (of great men) in 
the Maharashtra there were able men who were awake 
to ideals. But owing to fate, this human nature has not 
remained. If another man begins to do our work, we 
say good. When the work is done, that is sufi&cient. 
But the discrimination where to say good and where not 
has left us. The English people carry on our adminis- 
tration, you are sitting quietly. If there be any dirt in 
the catlleshed they sweep it away, look to sanitation, 
feed them and water them at the proper time, — but have 
the cattle put the question that this management should 
come in their hands ? (daughter). The difference 
between the men and cattle is that the Collector of Nagar 
looks to sanitation, tells what should be done if a disease 
comes, makes arrangement if a famine comes, taJkea 
measures that no calamity may befall you. That is to 
say your condition has become like that of a parrot kept 
in a cage ; such a condition is not wanted ; the cause of 
this is not merely that they make things go, but that 
owing to that arrangement all the (good) qualities 
possessed by us are gradually disappearing. In order 
that those (qualities), may not disappear, we must be 
at liberty to do what they do; other things (lit. subjects) 
than those done by them are not to be found out; (we) are 
not to leave (alone) what they do and do any other 
thing we may like. The same (thing) is wanted. We 
want the same power to be in our hands. There is only 
one objection to this. Buf it is very bad that such a 
condition should arrive. A story was published in the 
Kesari ; Rabindranath Tagore has given in his autobio- 



[ 67 ] 

graphy a poem of this sort about a parrot kept in a cage. 
It narrates in full a conversation between a parrot kept 
in a cage and a free parrot. The free parrot said to the 
parrot in the cage: * ‘There is such fun outside; one can 
roam so much, go any where one likes, can eat at any 
time one likes. Have you got such joy ? ” The parrot 
kept in the cage replied: “Sir, what you say is 'true. 
But where can this golden perch be obtained after going 
out” ? Our condition'has become like that. If swarajya 
be got, how are we to manage it ? No one gives, no one 
takes. Your anxiety is if swaraja be got how are we to 
manage it ? We are not fit. If the said parrot went out, 
how was he to get the cage and the perch to sit on etc. 
We have reached just the same condition. This condition 
is not natural. It is artificial. Just as that sentiment arose 
, in^that parrot’s mind owing to his being confined in a 
cage for many years so also the above sentiment arose 
in our mind owing to the above powers having passed 
out of our hands. This is not our original natural sen- 
timent—the natural human sentiment. As that is not 
the parrot’s natural sentiment, just so this is not the 
natural sentiment of our nation. This must be borne in 
mind at first. We become fit to do the work that falls 
to us. We are the descendents of those people who were 
fit in this manner, and if we be their true descendents, 
the same qualities must become manifest in us when we 
have that opportunity. And we must makv^ exertions for it 
with the confidence that they will (become manifest). 
This is what I say (cheers). If heredity (lit. hereditary 
effect) has any value, recognise it, otherwise at least 
give up calling yourselves the grandsons,— great -gran- 



[ 68 ] 

dsons— of such and such a person. There are now many| 
sardars in our country. They say that their grandfathers 
were sardars and that they also have inherited the 
qualities of their grandfather’s blood. But in order to 
save the vatan acquired by them (the grandfathers) 
they serve Sahebs in any manner they choose ; well I 
say, they began to do so because they are sardars. But 
why should you or we, who have nothing to obtain, 
run after them ? A sort of shadow has thus been thrown 
over the nation and we have to get out of it. This is 
an eclipse. When the moon is eclipsed, alms are given 
for its becoming free. Yon are not prepared to spend 
even a pie to put an end to the eclipse which has over- 
taken you, nor are you prepared to move for it. When 
the moon was eclipsed the Brahmans of ancient times 
used at least to make jap (repeating passages from Ve-* 
das, etc.). Do you make any jap at least; Are you 
making exertions for this ? Are you prepared to pay a 
few (lit. two) pice to any one for this? No, nothing. 
They only raise this objection. If (powers) be given 
to the Hindus, what are the Muhammadans to do ? 

, If the rights of swarajya be given to the Hindus, the 

( Muhammadans would not get (them). As if (we)cannot 
afterwards duly consult our Muhammadan brethren and 
come to a settlement. If powers came into our hands 
we would exercise zulum over the Muhammedans, and 
if the powers pass into their hands they would exercise 
zulum over the Hindus ! These (men) come to tell you 
these things on the people’s behalf. Who are they ? 
Why do they tell you things ? To delude you. This 
must be considered. These civil servants are far more 



[ 69 ] 

clever than you. They want to keep power in their 
hands. This case is like that of (the story) ‘of the 
three rog^ues.’ 

‘ 'When you make a demand in political matters you 
are told ‘you are effeminate.^ The Muhammadans are 
opposed to you. ,So will they say*.* If the Muhamm- 
adans say that they have no objection, [they] point their 
finger at a third thing. • In this manner this ipg^uery is 

practised. Without being deceived by this roguery t 

I do not say to any of you that you should do unlawful 
things in order to acquire these rights. There is a lawful 
way. But that lawful way* is such that you must not 
listen to others at all. You must be prepared to 
say resolutely that you want what is yours. So 
long as you do not make a resolution in your mind 
as’ soon as some police officer comes [and asks you] 
‘Well had you gone to Mr. Tilak’s lecture?’ [you 
answer] ‘Yes I went towards the end [of it] ‘sat 
at a distance, and could not hear the whole.’ [You] 
cannot deny, as the police, officer has seen [you] 
Why is there suc ^a fea r in your mind ? What is there 
to fear in saying that you want swarajya ? It is hear 
that the difficulty arises. When subsequently asked by 
the peple who had attended the lecture, he tells the truth. 
But when asked by the Police he says ‘I did not hear it 
well, two or four were telling, what could be done ? 
Well, my opinion is not like his.’ Such shuffling will 
not do in this matter. No goddess is propitiated by 
shuffling. That. goddess knows what is in your mind, and 

The braoketi ere in the originel. 

The lentenoe is not 'oomplete in the origiel. 



I K J 

of all these knowing goddesses, the godddess of Liberty ia 
most particular on this point, (lit. subject). Ask what 
you want and they will give it. Perhaps they may say 
^no’ once or twice. How many times will they say 
‘no’ ? They must be convinced that there is no shuffling 
in this matter. They must be convinced that there is no 
other course, unless effort is made.* It is the business 
of every goddess to frighten you until it appears that 
there is something in you. If we look into our yoga 
science, it (appears that) a goddess has to be won over. 
They begin to frighten (us). If there is success, all 
right. If, without yielding {o fear, we do our work 
resolutely, the goddesses of the yoga science will become 
propitiated. This admits of proof, this is the rule. Even 
in political matters there is no other rule — other way. 
We want it, we shall secure it {swarajya)^ and we shall 
not give up our exertions without getting it,— unless 
there be such a firm confidence in you this thing would 
not be obtained at all. This fear will remain behind, 
the Police will remain behind, the C. I. D. and Collector 
will remain behind, in the end that thing will be obtain • 
ed. You must not ^ be ji fraid of their b lustering and 
bawl ing. Nay, (yon j must consider that this is a definite 
consequence of this. There is a saying in English ‘How 
can light be seen without going through darkness ?* To 
rise in the morning, the sun has to go through darkness, 

I tell you the belief -of the common people, and not a 
proposition (It. belief) of science. Without going through 


* Not oioar in tho original, 
t Braokoti or# In tho original. 


[ 71 ] 

(larkness, light cannot be obtained. Without getting 
out of the reach of these blasts of hot air, troubles, and 
people^s blustering and bawling liberty cannot be, ob- 
tained. Resolution is wanted. I told you what is swa* 
rajya. Efforts for it must be begun as much stren- 
uously I By the grace of God, the world’s condition 

is at preset undergoing a change. To speak in the 
language of faith, God has become ready to render help. 
But though God be ready, you are not ready (laughter). 
God is quiet. Should a gift be sent to you from heaven •! 
Nobody at all sends. Even God does not send. And 
if He sends, it will also be of no use. For when you 
are afraid, what already exists may afterwards disappear. 
If this gift is given, how is it to be used ? That is tc 
say, if there be any place of God. you will send it to his 
’house. You will send it if it can be sent by post 
(laughter). After there is (rise of) such a sentiment, 
after authority of this sort which forms part of the 
national rights of which I have told you, comes inta 
your hands, what will take place ? What will be the 
effect upon the nation? This I am going to tell to-day. 
I have told you what is swarajyay My friend, Mr. 
Kelkar, has already told you that swarajya does not mean 
that our authority is to be established here by driving 
away English. Some people will have to be driven away. 
(marajya) is not driving away the King and taking his 
authority into one’s hands. It means taking into the 
hand the subjects’ rights. If it be carefully con- 
sidered if England derived any benefit by keeping this 


t The stntono* ii iaboinpl9t«*in original. 




[ 72 ] 

one nation a slave, it will be seen from the condition of | 
the whole of the world to-day that England will have 
some day or other to give liberty to the provinces and 
countries forming parts of the Empire under its control. 
This thing is to take place some day. It must take 
place. But if you do not do anything then only it will 
not take place. After keeping awake the whole night, 
you feel asleep when the thief came, such will be your 
condition. The time is coming. Perhaps the nature of 
the change occurring in the world— in other nations — 
will by the grace of God prove favourable to you. But 
(if) the time be favourable, it will be of use if you are 
awake. Otherwise (once) you sleep, you will sleep on. 
Owing to this, what will it avail even if we get the right 
of swarajya ? 1 will briefly give you a picture of what 

will happen. What happened during Peshwa's tim^ ? 
We ‘must examine history a little for it. At the time of 
the Peshwas ^the administration of Maharashtra was 
going on well. Elphinstone was the Saheb who brought 
about the fall of this rule of the Peshwas, and 
became the Commissioner after its fall. That Saheb 
is witness to (what I say). Though the city of Poona 
was such a big one there took place no dacoities in it at 
night. The consumption of liquor was mL It was al- 
together prohibited. The original system of jamabaiidi 
which was once settled by Nana Farnavis, was itself 
copied afterwards. Nay, the science as to how accounts 
are to be kept took its rise among us under the Peshwa’s 
rule, and those very accounts are now kept. We know 
}iow to administer pr.Qyinces, .The C. I. D. of Nana 
Farnavis was so very excellent that information as to 



L 73 ] 

f 'what a certain sardar spoke to certain man at the time of 
dining used to be sent to him (cheers). The following 
incident is said to have happened at one time. The 
Bombay Government had sent ammunition to the Resident 
in a palanquin by way of the Khopoli Ghat. An order 
was issued from the Poona Daftar that the palanquin 
which might come on such and such a date should be stop- 
ped on the Ghat. It h^d the information that animunition 
was to come in a palanquin. Afterwards the Resident 
complained “Why is our palanquin stopped ?” There- 
upon he received a reply from Nana Farnavis, ‘ ‘You 
yourself think about it. have attached the palanquin 
and will not let it go. The King must needs be inform- 
ed what has taken place and at what place. We have 
done it.” (So he was told). The C. I. D. is wanted. 
Who says no ? If the King has no information (he) will 
not be able to carry on the administration. We have no 
complaint against the C. I. D. (Our) complaint is about 
its method of working (eheers) (hear). That method is 
not under our control. He who has to carry on the 
administration> must have all departments. Police is 
wanted, C, I. D. is wanted. Revenue [Department] is 
wanted. Judicial [Department] is wanted. All depart- 
ments are wanted. Where [then] is the difficulty ? 
There is dffficulty in one matter. All [the departments] 
must be under the control of the people — our control. 
The difficulty lies only in this. Several people have 
formed the opinion that the English are the most civiliz- 
ed, we too must civilize ourselves, who does not want 
civilization ? All reforms are wanted. During Nana 
Farnavis’ time letters had to be sent ; now the C. I. D. 



[ 74 ] 

will send a wire. Means have become available. The- 
administration is to be carried on by making use of all 
these. But the whole of this system of administration 
existed at the time of the Peshwa’s rule. Consider what 
has taken place now after the break-up of that system. 
When the Peshwa’s rule passed away, Nagar, Satara, 
Poona, which were in the possession of the Peshwa him- 
self, came into the possession of the English. The lieut- 
enants of the Peshwa at that time were great generals. 
Gaikwar [lit. Baroda], Holkar and Scindia were the 
chief among the Jahagirdars and sardars who commanded 
the army. These three survived as all of them soon joined 
the English Government and the Peshwa’s rule was 
overthrown. This is the history of 1818. What is the 
condition of these three to-day ? What is the condition 
of the Baroda Sarkar? What is the condition of Holkar? 
What is the condition of the Scindia Sarkar ? And what 
is the condition of the territory or the district[s] adjoin- 
ing Poona ? Think about this. These three or four 
districts having gone into the possession of the English 
Government, the whole of their administration gradually 
passed into the hands of a bureaucracy. The policy of 
this bureaucracy is not to listen at all to the people. First 
Gevernor, then Commissioner, then Collector, the Col- 
lector’s subordinate the Assistant Collector, Mamlatdar, 
Aval Karkun, Fouzdar, Police sepoy— such is the arrang- 
ment of the whole of the bureaucracy from first to last. 
What is to be done for the people is to be done by them. 
The Government above issues order in respect of any- 
thing which it may think beneficial or harmful to the peo- 
ple, and according to it steps are taken below. At first 



[ 75 ] 

([this arrangement] was thought very good. The disorder 
under Bajirav's [rule] was put an end to. They said they 
were safe now. They saw the ghee but not the rod 
[laughter]. It began to be seen gradually afterwards. 
All authority went under the control of this bureaucracy. 
And the remaining people got education. [They] 
begun to make use of Railways. A Telegram can 
be sent if [some one] is to be informed whether 
I am coming to Nagar or not. Education was 
received. All these benefits were got.. But all this 
authority went into the hands of the bureaucracy. It 
had passed (into their hands) to some extent at the time 
of the Company. And (it passed wholly into their hands 
by) the Government of India Act passed in 1858. It is 
58 years now since that Act .was passed. What has 
’ happened during these 58 years ? The officials became 
powerful, and possessed of authority. The people^s 
authority became less. To such an extent that (it was 
said) we do not want the Kulkarni, we want all servants. 
Whatever hereditary rights (lit, powers) we may have 
possessed they too have gone. (This) did not strike 
[us] when the Inam Commission was appointed. That 
cannot be helped. They said Vinchurkar was a jahagir^ 
dar at that time. He was the master of the army. Some 
one was an officer of an army of 10,000 while some other 
was the officer of an army of 15,000. They were told ‘You 
have to supply an army of 15,000, while you have to be 
paid 15 lakhs of rupees of which you have to spend 14- 
lakhs, Then, take one lakh of rupees*’ They consented. 
[The amount] can be enjoyed while sitting at home, 
4hen what ? This a great principle. Nobody said at 



[ 76 ] 

that time ‘We lost our right [lit. authority] 'to keep an i 
army, to fight for Government* ; nobody thought so. 
[It was thought that] Government was good [aa] it 
gives to eat while we sit at home. What^more is required? 
We have been reduced to such a condition owing to this 
state of things. In 50 or 60 years all the powers of this 
province have passed into the possession of the European 
bureaucracy. You should not understand from this that 
I call the European bureaucracy bad. They are very 
much learned. These posts are given to the best students 
from England. Their abilities are greater. But even if 
all this be admitted still [it is<a fact] they have to under- 
go great wear and tear while working for us [and] the 
climate of England being cold and that of this country hot, 
larger pay has to be given to them. Having come for our 
good, will you say ‘no’ to them ? [laughter]. All things 
are admitted by us. I do not also deny, that they may 
perhaps be working a little more than we. I only say, 
when we are ready to do the work, when it is our work, 
why (give it) to others ? Nor do [I] say that they do it 
badly. Our minds have begun to grow weak owing to 
restriction being placed on our work [and] against our 
interests. Our enthusiasm has begun to become less. 
Effeminacy is increasing. Therefore, we do not want 
this. I do not say that they are not wanted because 
they are not educated. They are good. They are mer- 
chants. Will you not get for your shop some agent 
more clever than yourself ? There may be [such men] ; 
But will you give your shop into the hands of such 
an [lit. that] agent and stand aside, taking such money 
as he will give ? This is indeed a question in business. 



[ ] 

I It is a question in any matter. Such was the manage- 
ment of this province. What became of Baroda ? l<ook 
at the history of Baroda. There are such writings 
in the history of Baroda. And * what he could do there 
by degrees was not done here by degrees. The gadi 
of the Mahraja of Baroda had to be perpetuated. That 
was [lit. is] a matter of regular succession. That is a 
part of history. Fornierly Baroda used to be managed 
or supervised from Poona, and the rest was done by the 
Kings of Baroda. It J might have been done by other 
kings. Therefore, if you become ready now by recei- 
ving education here [youj go to Baroda and ask for 
service there. There are men educated in Poona and 
Bombay who are District Magistrates, Munsiffs, Subhas 
and Diwans. There are Naib Diwans [and] High Court 
Judges. These people are working there. They work 
[there] without complaint [being heard about them]. 
Then where is the objection to the same being done 
here ? If men from the districts of Poona and Satara 
go and conduct the administration of Baroda, what 
objection is there for them to carry on the very 
same administration in the same way jn this our province? 
Who has taken objection ? The nation being divided 
into two parts, one part— the Marathi nation— went into 
the possession of the English on account of some historical 
reason, and one remained in the possession of (native) 
Chiefs. One part says that the people of this nation 
are fit to do work. In the other part the authorities 


* Not clear in the original. 
t Not olear in the original. 



[ is : 

6ay that they are unfit and we too saying ditto tc^ 
them, begin to talk like them. There are two stan- 
dards, two sides. Then, what is wanted when [ one 
talks ^of] swarajya ? Now you will see where is the 
objection to make the very same arrangement with regard 
to Poona [and] Satara as exists in Baroda ? The autho- 
rity of the English Government will remain. It is also 
over Baroda. The Chief of Baroda is not an independent 
king. When the Peshwa’s rule existed in Poona, the 
treaty of Bassein was made [in the proportion of] 10 to 6 
annas in the rupee. Had the state of Poona remained 
they too would have been a^le to manage it. Satara 
and Nagar could have been managed by them. The 
same management exists in the Nizam's territory. Swa^ 
rajya means this much : Give those rights which Native 
States have and which the Baroda and Scindia Sarl^ar 
have, to Poona and Satara after forming them into a 
State of the Central Division. One difference must, 
however, be made in this. Now a hereditary chief will 
not do for us. We shall have to elect our own President. 
This [is] the only difference. It is a historical puzzle 
or inconsistency, that the province which was the capi- 
tal of the Marathas should not be given the arrangement 
which exists in Native States, while those provinces 
which were dependent on that province should have it. 
There is no reason for this. Why should we not become 
like them ? I have told you that the Gaekwar and 
Scindia have sent money and armies to Europe for the 
war. If [these districts] had been in our possession, we 
too would have done the same. This thing has nothing 
to do with [the question whether] the British Govern- 



[ 79 ] 

ment will go or will remain. But the only difference lies 
in the continuance or the disappearance of the authority 
of the bureaucracy, the foreign bureaucracy. This is the 
difference between the arrangements. There is no difference 
as to the sovereign authority which is at the root. I 
think Mr. I^awrence had formerly suggested that (in 
view of) the swarajya agitation going on, India should 
be divided into separate Native States, that some experts 
should be kept there, and only the powers with regard 
to making treaties with foreign powers and the manage- 
ment of the army and the navy should be kept in their 
[lit. our] hands so that tljie English rule may not be in 
danger. [I] do not say that you should not retain these 
powers. In the arrangement of swarajya these will be 
the higher questions of Imperial politics. England should 
freely retain in her hands the questions as to what kind 
of relation should subsist between India and other nations 
whether war should be made for a certain thing or not, 
and what policy should be followed when relations 
with foreign nations arise. Those who want swarajya\ 
do not wish to interfere with these things. What we want 
is that just as we are to-day managing our own (things) 
in Native States, we want authority to do the same with 
regard to ourserves. We shall expend on such and 
such items the revenue which we get from taxes, we shall 
spend it on education, if there is less revenue from liquor 
we shall decide what other taxes should be imposed in 
lieu thereof and arrange accordingly, we shall manage 
trade, we shall manage all affairs, you shall not interfere 
in them. The people of India do not go to any other 
nation. Why do they not? See if you want to, whether 



[ 80 ] 

they join France or Germany* If there be still a doubt> ^ 
one must be able to understand from the present state of 
things that if Indians are prepared to have connection 
with any particular country that nation is England 
(cheers). We will not be benefited by England going 
away and Germany coming in her place. We do not 
want the thing. Even if the matter be viewed from ano- 
ther practical point of viewi England is here for 100 
years, (while) Germany will be a new comer, and its 
energy will be fresh and hunger unsatisfied. How will 
that do ? What is, is all right. A new king is not 
wanted. But give into our possession a portion of the 
powers by losing which our condition is being reduced to 
that of orphans. It is not I that alone am saying this. 
Mr. Lawrence has said so. [He writes that] if hereafter 
improvement is to be effected in India after the war, .if 
Government intends to effect some [new arrangement, 
with regard to the people [lit. them] , then divide India 
into different parts. The question of language did not 
enter his head, but we shall add that idea. Form 
one separate State each of Marathi, Telagu and 
Kanarese provinces. The question of vernaculars also 
comes in this [question of] swarajya. There is no ques- 
tion which is not dependent upon swara\ya. Had there 
been general liberty, there would have been a Gujarati 
University, a Marathi University, an Agricultural Uni- 
versity. But to do that does not lie in our hands. Is 
the question whether education should be given through 
vernacular such a big one, Jthat there should arise diffe- 
rences- with regard to it? But [our wish] does not prev- 
ail here. Do the English educate their people through 



[ 81 ] 

ithe French language ? Do Germans ( do it ) through 
^he Fnglish language ? Do the Turks impart (education) 
through the French language ? So many examples being 
before our eyes, why should we write articles, columns 
upon columns long, upon the subject ? Why does that 
which these people say not take place now ? Because 
(we have no authority. You have not got the authority 
to determine what sljould be taught to your (lit. our) 
children. So many of you send ( your ) children to 
school, but do not consider what will become of them. 
In short, there is no question at present which is not 
dependent on ‘swarajya’-ron authority, Ranade and 
others have (up till) now made efforts with regard to 
the Fergusson College and the University. But who is 
to be prevailed upon ? Government; ! They know what 
arrangement there was in their country. Why should 
the same not be here ? (For) imparting English edu- 
cation to all, the English language has to be taught for 
seven or eight years. Eight years is not a small (part) 
of life. Such ( a state of things) exists nowhere (else). 
This arrangement does not exist in any civilized coun- 
try. If inspite of this your attention is not drawn to- 
wards swarajya, then be sure that there is some thing 
wrong with your eyes (cheers). Whatever you have to 
say, whatever prayer you have to make to Government, 
let that prayer be for giving authority, and not for any- 
thing else. We want those things which are the leading 
ones under this rule. I have already told you that wh- 
erever we go (our path) is ultimately obstructed. The 
question of education is an ordinary one. There must 
i)e schools in each village. Whence is the money to be 



[ 82 ] 


brought by us? (We) pay ^taxes to Govermient. 
we pay them for nothing ? Let us have the system pre- 
valent in England for imparting education. There is 
money in the treasury; it is utilised, it is paid for other 
purposes ; but it is not expended on those things which 
are necessary for us. Therefore, what I have told you 

lastly * India is a big country. Divide it if you 

want acccording to languages. Separate the Marathi 
(speaking) part and the Gujarati (speaking) part. But 
how are the Hindus and the Musalmans to be taught in 
them ? I am going to speak about this also. In Canada 
the population consists of Frenchmen and Mohammadens.t 
If English statesmen could settle (the question) there 
would they not be able to settle how Hindus and Muham* 
madans should conduct themselves (here) ? Thus these 
are excuses for not giving us these things. This you 
must believe firmly. If India be divided into different 
States in this manner :J The province of Bengal is se- 
parate. Instead of appointing over it a Chief from this 
side, I say, a European Governor may be appointed for 
some years. What used to happen before a president 
elected by the people was secured? A Governor used to go 
from England to Australia. He was obliged to work in 
the Council as he was told. Here,itlis contrary (to the ab- 
ove). If you want any thing, a resolution is to bebrouht be- 
fore the Council, much preparation is to be made, figures 
are to be collected, he does not get even a pice. The other 

* Sentence incomplete in the original. 

t Sic, 

t 8eoteoce~nOfi complete in the original. 



[ 83 J 


iinembets of the Council are paid. He has to work for 
nothing, and at last the resolution is rejected. Though 
it be passed, Government can not be forced to give effect 
to it. It is a childish thing. (I think that he) who does 
not think it so possesses proportionately less patriotism 
(cheers.) This is like setting us to fight by throwing 
grains of boiled rice, without giving anything to us 
without* giving any power tons (lit. without our posse- 
ssing any power). If any rights will be obtained from 
this in future, if any power will come into our hands, if 
(this) be given to us as a step towards the above, then 
it has a value, otherwise,* it has no value. What does 
happen ? This is the science of setting good and well- 
educated men to fight for two or four ghatkas'.t Hence, 
bear in mind what will result from Swarajya and what 
we ask. In asking for swarajya we ask that in the end 
there should be such States throughout India, that at first 
Englishmen coming from England and at last presidents 
elected by the people should be appointed in these States, 
and that a separate Council should be formed for (dis- 
posing of) questions relating to the whole nation. Just 
as there is an arrangement in Europe, America and the 
United States, and’just as there are different small Slates 
and there is a Congress to unite them together so the 
Government of India should keep in their hands similar 
powers of the Imperial Council. There are present 
seven are eight different provinces ; make them twenty 
if you like and make such an arrangement in respect of 

* Not clear in the original. 

t Ghotka ^ual to 24 minutes. 



L 84.1 

those provinces as will give facilities to the people, meet 
with their approval and place power in their hands. This 
itself is what is meant by the demand for swarajya. The 
demand for swarajya does not mean that the Emperor 
should be removed. Perhaps, for this arrangement you 
may have to bring English officers in some places. This 
is admitted. But those officers will be ours, will be of 
the people, will remain as servant§ of the people, will 
not remain as our masters. The intelligence of our 
people will not alone suffice to bring about the reforms 
which are to be effected in India. We shall have to bring 
men from England or America, but those men will be 
responsible to us. They will not be irresponsible. 
Hence from one point of view, it cannot be said at all 
that this agitation is against Europeans. To whom 
would they be responsible ? To themselves or to us ? 
So long as this responsibility has not come to us, (so 
long as) their responsibility has not come under our 
power, it will continue to be just so ! Till then our 
efforts will be vain, though made in any direction ; till 
then, in whatever other matter we mky make any move- 
ment, it will be ineffectual, and the desired object will, 
not be accomplished. As long as a nation is not free to 
bring about its own good, as long as a nation has no 
power to make an arrange'ment to bring about a certain 
thing which it may desire, so long I do not think, your 
belly will be filled if you are fed by others. Now the 
people know, some peopk are convinced that the people's 
good cannot be effected by what is called ‘despotic* rule’ 

* Theie words ooonr in Inglisb in the original. 


[ 85 ] 

in English. Hence, my object is to tell you that you sho- 
uld make efforts. If my words fall short of (expressing) it, 
that is my defect, not a defect in the idea, which is fault- 
less. All these things, their different natures, cannot 
be placed before you in a single lecture. As regards 
this idea of States about which I spoke, there are many 
questions, viz., what arrangements should there be in 
them ? What rignts* should there be in them. And 
what amendment should be made in the India Act 
of 1858 about consolidation ?t And though I may 
deliver not only one but four or ten lectures, they 
would not be sufl&cient t(? deal with those (questions. ) 
Our principle is one— about this alone I have to speak 
in (this) lecture. Those of you who are competent, 
by virtue of intelligence, wealth or in some other man- 
ner, to consider these things, will spontaneously know 
that these things are wanted. Why ask, ‘Will this be 
obtained ? Will this be obtained?* To acquire it or not 
lies in their hands. I do not understand this question at 
all. You are making so much exertion. (No matter) 
if it be not obtained. As for making exertions, it is in 
our hands. We need not consider whether we shall 
get it or not. Exert yourself. The work which you do 
will not fail to produce some result or other. Have firm 
belief in your mind. Have not any men obtained any 
freedom in the kingdom or not? Had goddesses fallen 
from above in other nations? I tell you plainly that if 
you have no courage, (it) will not be obtained. If there 
be courage, if it be not obtained to-day, it will be obtained 


t Not olear in the original. 




[ 86 ] 

to morrow it will be obtained after 10 or 20 years. 
But you must make efforts for it. The principle 
of your religion is this ‘You are only to work, you 
are not ever to look to the fruits.’ Why is this said 
in the Gita ? Is it for going to worship, for obtain- 
ing a sher of rice by reciting Puran ? Great reli- 
gions tell this very thing. The Western history tells 
this very thing. In spite of this,c will you ask ‘What 
will become of us ? How shall we fare ?’ ‘As made 
of a ball of earth, etc.’ There is a ball of earth. We 
have it to be called Vishnu. We have it to be called 
Shiva. And we impart so ivuch importance to it that 
it is worshipped by the people. Lo! (it is) merely a ball 
of earth without any movement. When dropped on the 
ground if falls down with a thud. We can give a form 
to that ball by some act, exertion (and) ceremony. 
Now, these our bodies which are, unlike that earthen 

ball, endowed with life * If a form of some sort 

cannot be given to an earthen ball, it must be said to be 
your fault. It is possible to give them a form. Do not 
make haste. Nothing will be gained by it (haste).} If 
you work resolutely, a different form can be given to an 
earthen ball. This thing is told in the Shasiras f. It is 
proved. It is proved by experience, proved by evidence, 
by history. If in spite of this testimony placed before 
you, you are not convinced, if you are not satisfied, at 
least give up talking about the country attaining a 
flourishing condition afresh. Do not bother our heads. 
These things are capable of happening— must happen. 

* Thia aentenoe ia not complete in the original. 

t The brackets are in the originaL 



t 87 J 


There must be such faith. That faith brings about works. 
W'here that faith does not exists.^ Whnt is to be done 
hen ? They do not give anything, they only say they 
would give— sucht an opinion is not wanted. I do not 
say that what may be given should not be taken. Take 
what is given, ask for more, do not give up your demand. 
( Laughter, We want so many rupees. You gave 
one hundred. ‘Takek one hundred from another,— why 
should^ you have such an opinion ? If even (some) 
out of hundred be not offered, what have you now to 
say against them PV (Laughter.) We want one thousand. 
When we get a thousand rupees, we shall be satisfied. 
If l/lO of a hundred be given we shall thank (you) 
(laughter). Not that we shall not thank (you). This 
is human nature. If my paper falls down, I shall say 
‘thank you’ when you give it to me. This is human 
feeling. I do not tell (you) to give it up. But the 
humanness of man lies in securing those aspirations 
which are included in this feeling. All these other 
feelings must be treated§ as servants of that feeling, that 
exertion, that one goal. When this is done szvarajya 
will be obtained. Swarajya is not a fruit (so) that it may 
at once fall into the mouth from the sky. Another man 
is required to put it into the mouth. This is suchll a 


• Not clear in original. 

Not clear in the original. 

Not clear in the original. 

Not clear in the original. 

II Not clear in the original. 

...tIF Thoie lour lines are not clear in the original. 



[ 88 ] 

work. And for it this beginning is made. The papery 
which my friend Tatya Saheb has now' given into my^ 
hand is of such a sort. The work has been begun a little 
in India. Mrs. Annie Besant has established a Home 
Rule I^eague at Madras. Here also we have established 
one. And in the same manner a Home Rule Teague will 
soon be established in Bengal or elsewhere. If, perhaps 
the Congress will take up this question and itself establish 
a league, the other leagues will be merged into it. The 
same work is to be done. This work is one and you are 
to do (it). This is a question of (securing) benefit. We 
have to obtain swarajya^ I have told you what sort of 
swarajya is to be obtained. I told you what change it 
will hereafter produce in the present condition. The 
House of Lords have begun to have such dreams. Lord 
Hardinge said that the Civilians will soon have to place 
in your hands the rights belonging to you. The people 
belonging to the party opposed to you in this matter have 
begun to have bad dreams (laughter). While you alone 
(say) *We are unfit, we shall not take this.’ Whence 
(does) this obstinancy (arise)? (Laughter.) What is 
the rationale of this ? (It is that) they have begun to 
have such dreams. They think that some or other 
arrangement of this sort will have to be made. The 
work you have to do first (is this) : You must make 
agitation in the whole country and convince every man 
that this alone is our goal. For this we have to work. 
Nay, we must settle what is it we want, what arrange- 
ment should there be— this demand must be settled. We 
must go to England and convince the people of it. And 
when this subject will be discussed in Parliament this 



[ 89 ] 

|ubject must be plsced before it in a proper manner. 
That proper manner’ means that a bill to amend the 
existing India Act must be brought before Parliament. 
What we have to demand is this • Amend this Act for 
us. When the h«ast India Company was abolished and 
the rule of the Queen’s government came, this Act was 
amended i, e., minor amendments were made in it. We 
want to have it amended in a* certain manner. And this 
is wanted not merely for our good but for the good of the 
Empire. To make such a demand of them is a part (lit. 
business) of that work. This work must be done with 
the help and acquiescence of all. There must be left no 
difference of opinion about this. The moderates and the 
Nationalistes have one and the same goal, one and the 
same demand is to be made and one and the same (thing) 
is -to be obtained. Fordoing this work which is to be 
carried on by entertaining this sentiment, a separate 
institution called the Home Rule League is established. 
This subject is placed before the Congress. But as the 
Congress is to assemble once a year, when once an 
opportunity is gone, (another comes) in the next year. 
But we have to do this work throughout the year. This 
is admitted by the Congress. With this object we have 
established this League. Not very great exertion is 
required for this. Recognize this goal. We have a right 
to demand (the fulfilment of) this goal. The demand for 
money made to-day is only this ; Every man should pay 
one rupee. The admission fee is Rs. 2. But if this is 
not to be paid, pay at least one rupee. If one lakh 
out of thirty crores of people be not found (willing to 
pay, ) then at least cease to prate about India. Do not 



t 90 ] 

tire our ears. I do not think that more than a yeai || 
will be required for this agitation to become successful 
The subscription for one year is fixed at Re. 1. It is 
not necessary to carry on the agitation for 10 or 20 years, 
Such a time has come. Hence if you are not disposed 
to make the self-sacrifice of taking one rupee out of 
your pocket for this agitation then at least do not come 
to the lecture, so that it may nqt be necessary to talk 
so loudly. If you have do to anything it is only this. 
The people belonging to this institution are prepared 
to make the remaining arrangement. For this pur- 
pose many lectures like this will have to be delivered in 
various places. People will have to be got together. 
(The matter) will have to be explained to the people. 

If the police come to stop (the proceedings), if it is not 
[allowed] here, we must go elsewhere and assemble. < 
We must go there before the police go. We must per- 
sist. Do not think that this can be obtained easily and 
pleasantly. One rupee is nothing. There must be 
resolution of the mind. If any one comes to ask, 
you must plainly tell him; The goal we demand is 
lawful. We have become its members and paid .one 
rupee. We want that thing. You must say this 
fearlessly. If you have not the courage to say this that 
is a different thing. I trust that this thing will be con- 
sidered good by the whole of India, perhaps by your 
descendants if not by you. Though you may not have 
he will, this thing must be done. If not you the people 
of the next generation will make efforts, but they will 
call you asses. If you mean to put up with this, then I 
have no objection. My own conviction is that it will be 



[ 91 ] 


t )tained. Bear in mind what work you have to do and 
hat help you*have to give. Perhaps there will be trouble 
from the police, this is not denied. (If they ask) ‘Well, 
have you become subscribers ? Have you become 
members ?’ You must say ‘Yes, we have become'.* 

Such is the law, nothing else will happen. If a pro- 

secution be instituted, the pleaders in this (institution) 
will conduct the (defence) without taking any fee 

(laughter). If a rupee be paid for this work, that 

would not be sedition. More than this (f. e. paying 
Re. land becoming a member)* you have not to do: 
This League undertakes to do the remaining work. 
[Strange] that the people of Maharashtra should re- 
main quiet at such a time !** We want all, whether 
they be Muhammadans, Hindus [or] Marwaris. Am- 
ong these theie are none who are not wanted ; in this 
^there is no distinction of caste or religion. This work 
is to be done for Indid. I have already stated on a 
former occasion at a certain place, that there is a 
[practice] amongst you traders that they keep one 
anna [in the rupee] out of profits for cow protection. 
Such is your habit. I ask, ‘Why sould not the traders 
give to us a pice or half pice in the anna for this 
[object] also ?’ India is a great cow, nbt a small one. 
That cow has given you birth. You are maintaining 
yourselves on that cow’s industry, on her fruitfulness, 
[and by] drinking her milk. [You] forget that cow, 
but [lit. and] on seing the accounts one anna, one 
anna [is seen] debited in her name. [For cow-prote- 


0 Th« braoketi are in tha original. 



[ 92 ] 

ction.]* For what is the anna taken out? For giving fo(^ 
der to the cow, for rescuing her from the hands of the 
butcher. We are dying here to-day without work. 
But does the idea ever occur to you that this is a cow 
for you ? That idea never occurs to you. This is a 
work for the protection of religion, and for the protection 
of cows. This is the work of the nation and of political 
progress. This [work] is of religion, of progress. [I 
ask you] to take into consideration all this and to assist 
us as much as lies in your power. I have already said 
we do not ask for more than one rupee per man. He 
who has the ability should obtain the merit of protecting 
the cow by paying this one rupee at least once to this 
institution. This is a great work. If sons of the cow 
will not care [about] this then you shall have to be call- 
ed bullocks, as the sons of cows are called [laughter]. 
You shall have to be given that name which is commonly 
applied to cow’s sons. I have told you these things. 
This institution has been started. Work has commenced. 
If perils overtake it we are prepared to bear them. They 
must be borne. It will not do at all to sit idle. All 
will be able to support themselves. Therefore assist in 
this manner this undertaking. Then God will not 
abandon you : such is my conviction. These things will 
be achieved by the grace of God. But we must work. 
There is a very old principle that God helps them who 
help themselves. + This principle occurs in the Rigveda. 
God becomes incarnate. When ? When you take com- 
plaints to Him and pray to Him. God does not become 


' * The draokets are in the original. 
t This is quoted in English in the original. 



[ 93 ] 


Incarnate for nothing. God does not become incarnate 
Wr idle people. He becomes incarnate for industrious 
people. Therefore begin work. This is not the occasion 
to tell all the people to-day what sort of amendment is 
to be effected in the law. It is difficult to discuss every 
such thing at such a large meeti/ig. Hence put together 
the few general things which I told you [nowj and those 
which I told yesterday^ and sfet about to work. And at 
last having prayed to God to make your efforts success- 
ful I conclude my speech [cheers J. [Victory to Tilak 
Mahara] from the audience. ] 

» 

Lok. TILAK’S SPEECH. 

[Delivered at the 31st Indian National Congress]. 

, Xok: Bal Gangadhar Tilak, who on rising to support 
the resolution, was given a great ovation, said : — 

Mr. President, brother delegates, ladies and gentle- 
men,— I thank you sincerely for the reception that you 
have given me on this platform ; but let me tell you 
that I am not a fool enough to think that this reception 
is given to my person. It is given, if I rightly under- 
stand, for those principles for which I have been fighting 
[Hear, hear]. The resolution which I wish to support 
embodies all those principles. It is the resolution on 
self-government. It is that for which we have been 
fighting, the Congress has been fighting for the last 30 
years. The first note of it was beared ten years ago on 
the banks of the Hooghly and it was sounded by the 
Grand Old Man of India— I mean the patriot, Parsi 
gentlemen of Bombay, Mr. Dadabhai Naoroji. [Appla- 



r 94 ] 

use.] Since that note was sounded a difference of opiniojjL 
arose. Some said that that note ought to be carried onan^ 
ought to be followed by a detailed scheme at once, and 
that it should be taken up and made to resound all over 
India as soon as possible. There was the other party 
amongst us that said that it could not be done soon and 
that the tune of that note required to be a little lowered. 
That was the cause of dissensiqn ten years ago. But 
I am glad to say that I have lived these ten years to see 
that we reunite on this platform and that we are going 
to put forward our voice and shoulders to push on this 
scheme of self-government.,, We have lived— theie is a 
further thing— not only have we lived to see these diffe- 
rences closed but to see the differences of the[Hindus and 
Mahomedans closed as well. So we are united in every 
way in the United Provinces and we have f^und that * 
luck in Lucknow. [Laughter.] So I consider it the 
most auspicious day, the most auspicious in the most 
auspicious session of the 31st Indian National Congress. 
And there are only one or two points on which I wish to 
address you. 

It has been said, gentlemen, by some that we Hindus 
have yielded too much to our Mahomedan brethren. I 
am sure I represent the sense of the Hindu community 
all over India when I say that we could not have yield- 
ed too much. I would not care if the rights of self-gov- 
ernment are granted to the Mahomedan community only. 
[Hear, hear]. I would not care if they are granted to 
the Rajputs. I would not care if they are granted to the 
lower and the lowest Classes of the Hindu population 
presided the British Government considers them more fit_ 



[ 95 ] 


l^an the educated classes of India for exercising those 
"ghts. I would not care of those rights are granted to 
any section of the Indian community. Then the fight 
will be between them and the other sections of the com- 
munity and not as at present a triangular fight. 

We have to get these rights from a powerful Bureau- 
cracy, an unwilling Bureaucracy! Naturally unwilling 
because the Bureauc|;acy w^ill feel that those rights, 
that authority, will pass out of their hands. I would 
feel the same thing and I amnotgoing to blame the Bure- 
aucracy for entertaining that natural feeling. But what- 
ever the character of that (deling may be it is a feeling 
which we have to combat against; it is a feeling that 
is not conducive to the growth of self-government in 
this country. We have to fight against that 'feeling 
and when we have to fight against a third party it is 
a very great thing, a very important event, that we 
stand on this platform united in race, united in religion, 
united as regards all different shades of political creed. 
That is the most important event of the day. 

Let us glance, as I said, ten years ago when Mr. 
Dadabhai Naoraji declared that Swarajya should be our 
goal. The father has christened it has baptised it with 
the name of Swarajya. Later on it came to be known 
as self-government or constitutional reform ; and we 
Nationalists style it Home Rule. It is all the same - 
one in three different names. It is said that as there is 
objection raised that Swaraj has a bad odour in India 
and Home Rule has a bad odour in England we ought 
to call it constitutional reform. I don’t care to call it 
as any reform. If you style it as A. B. C. reform scheme 



[ 96 ] 

or X. Y. Z. reform scheme I am equally content ; 
don’t mind for the name, but I believe we have hardl 
realized the importance and character of that scheme of 
reform. Let me tell you that it is far more liberal than the 
Irish liome rule Bill and then you can understand what 
possibilities it carries with it. It will not be complete 
Home Rule but more than a beginning of it. It may 
not be complete self-government ^ut it is far better than 
local self-government. [Laughter.] It may not be 
Swaraj in the widest sense of the word but it is far better 
than Swadeshi and boycott. It is in fact a synthesis of 
all the Congress resolutions passed during the last 30 
years,— a synthesis that will help us on to proceed to 
woik ill a dednite, in a certain responsible manner. We 
cannot now afford to spend our energy on all 30 reso- 
lutions—public service resolutions, Arms Act and sun- 
dry others. All that is included in this one resolution of 
self-government and I would I ask everyone of you to 
try to carry out this one resolution with all your effort, 
might and enthusiasm, and everything that you can 
command. Your intelligence, your money, your en- 
thusiasm, all that you can command must now be devo- 
ted for carrying out the scheme of reform. Don’t think 
it is an easy task. Nothing can be gained by passing a 
resolution on this platform . Nothing can be gained by 
simple union of the two races. Hindus and Mohomedans 
and the two parties Moderates and Nationalist. The 
union is intended to create a certain power and energy 
amongst us and unless that energy and power are exer- 
cised to the utmost you cannot hope to succeed. So 
great are the obstacles in your way. You must now be 



I 97 J 

krepared to fight out your scheme in short. I don't care 
* the sessions of the Congress are not held any longer. 
I think it has done its work as a deliberative body. The 
next part is executive and I hope I shall be able to place 
before you later the executive part of the scheme. It is 
only the deliberative part that has been placed before 
you. Remember what has been done. It is not the time 
for speaking. When Swaraj was declared as our goal it 
was questioned whether it was legal and the Calcutta 
High Court has declared that it was. Then it was said 
that Swaraj was legal but it must be expressed in such 
words as not to amount to criticism of the Bureaucracy. 
That too has been judicially decided.— You can criticize, 
you can make any criticism in order to further your 
object, in order to justify your demand, perfectly within 
* the’ bounds of law. So the goal has been declared legal. 
Here you have a specific scheme of Swaraj passed by the 
united India. All the thorns in our way have been re- 
moved. It will be your fault if you now do not obtain 
what is now described in it. Remember that. But I ask 
you it is very serious responsibility. Don’t shirk it. 
Work. I say the days of wonders are gone. You can- 
not now feed hundreds of people on a few crumbs of 
bread as Jesus did. The attainment of this object can- 
not be achieved by a wonder from heaven. You have 
to do it. These are days of work, incessant labour, and 
I hope that with the help of Providence you will find 
that energy^ that enthusiasm and those resources which 
are required for carrying out this scheme within the next 
two years to cQihe. If not by the end of 1917, when 1 
expect the war will be closed, during at least 1918 we 
7 



[ 98 ] 

shall meet at some place in India where we shall be abA 
to raise up the banner of self-rule. (Loud applause. ) ^ 

HOME RULE FOR INDIA. 

Lok. Tii^ak’s Lkcturk Dkuvi$r^d at Th^oso?hicai. 

Pandal Lucknow. 

Lok. Tildf^s Right p{ Speech, 

Mrs. Besant then called upon Mr. Tilak to speak and 
said: “One who had been silenced for over 6 Years for 
the sake of his country has a right of speech at every 
assembly of Indians.” 

Lokamanya Tii,ak. 

Lok. Bal Gangadhar Tilak was received with a great 
ovation and cheers of Bande Mataram. He said : I did 
not come here to diliver an address; nor did I thrink' 
that I would be asked to speak. But the subject is so 
fascinating and one cannot resist the tamtation of saying 
at least a few words. The Lucknow Sessions has become 
the most important sessions of the congress. The presi- 
dent of the congress said that it was the Indian National 
Congress. Two things have taken place. 

Hindus and Musi^ims 

have been brought to-gether. There is a feeling 
among the Hindus that too much has been given. I 
think the objection is not national. As a Hindu I have 
certainly no objection to making this concession. When 
a case is difficult the client goes to his vakil and promises 
to pay one half of the property to him if he wins the case. 
The same is the thing here. We canriot rise from our 
pfoseot intolerable condition without the aid of Muslim^ 



I 99 ] 

in order to gain tke desired end there is no objection 
^0 giving a percentage, a greater percentage to the 
Muslims. Their responsibility becomes greater, the 
greater percentage of representation you give them. 
They will be doubly bound to work for you, with a zeal 
and enthusiasm greater then ever. The first at present is 
A Triangular Fight. 

You have to wrest the Self-Government from out^f 
the hands of a powerful bureaucracy. This body has 
already commenced to work in order to retain its power 
in its own hands. It is but natural. You would do the 
same thing yourself if you* were in power. Possession 
is nine points of law. Bureaucracy is in possession of 
power and why should they part with it? Right cannot 
be obtained by yearly resolutions. There are difficulties 
• in the way of carrying out these resolutions, but these 
difficulties must strengthen us in our beliefs and in 
our actions. 

Good done by Bureaucracy. 

Bureaucracy too has done some good in over country. 
They have tried to clear India of the Jungle that was 
there. But further on, after clearing the Jungle, there 
is one thing they do. They do not want to sow in the 
ground thus cleared. We want to utilise it for agri- 
culture. India has united into one mass under this 
bureaucracy, now it is expected to rise to the call of 
duty. The next point naturally arises. We now want 
liberty. Similarly^ we educate our children and expect 
them to take our position later on in life. So is the case 
with Englishmen. They have united us. They have 
educated us and they must expect us to take the 



[ 100 1 

position we are fit for. History and reasons are ^gaii^ 
the difficulties Created by the bureaucracy and we mu^ 
triumph in the end. The only thing that comes in our 
way is that we are not yet prepared. No sbilly-shalling 
will do. Be prepared to say that you are a Home Ruler. 
Say that you must have it and I dare say when you are 
ready you will get it. There is nothing anarchical in 
t#is demand. Are you prepared* to work for it? 

Home Rule is an extensive subject. A strong reso- 
lution has been passed by the congress and now the 
education of the masses lies in your hands. Home Rule 
is the synthesis of all congress resolutions. Home Rule 
is the only remedy. Insist on your rights. India is 
your own house. Is is not? (Cries of yes) Then why 
not manage yourself? (Cheers). Our domestic, affairs 
must be in our own hands. We do not want separation 
from England. 

Vkdanta’s Support. 

There is a saying in our Vedants meaning that if a 
man tries he can become God himself. If that is so, do 
you mean to say that you cannot become bureaucrats if 
you want to? It is very obvious. Have firm faith in 
the brighter prospects of humanity or, as they are called, 
in the laws of evolution. Then I believe, by that faith 
you will be able to realise your object withiipa year or 
two. (Cheers) 


11th January 17 New India. 



[ 101 ] 

HOME RULE. 

l,OK. TiLAK*S lyKCTURE DELIVERED AT CaWNPORE 
On January 1st 1917. 

Gentlemen, — It is extremely unfortunate that I am 
not addressing you in your mother tongue Hindi which 
claims to be the lingua franca of India ; I am sorry for 
it the more when I see the large crowd that has assem- 
bled here to welcome me on this occasion. I am sorry 
because I am one of those who hold that Hindi should 
be the lingua franca of India in future. But unfortuna- 
tely, not being able to speak in Hindi I have thought it 
fit to address you in English on this occasion, a few 
words which relate to a subject in which all of us were 
engaged at Eucknow. Gentlemen, you must have all 
probably heard that the Lucknow Congress was a me- 
morable Congress, a momentous step being taken there- 
in as regards Home Rule. You will be able to learn 
that after 30 years of deliberation we have at last come 
to the conclusion that nothing will save us except 
Home Rule. As I have said in the Congress it is a sy- 
nthesis of all the resolutions hitherto passed by the 
Congress during the last 30 years. Whatever side you 
may look at the question from, you will be convinced 
that the freedom which Home Rule implies is neces- 
sary for the regeneration of this country. Everything 
in the moral, material or intellectual sphere of this na- 
tion depends upon #ie freedom which at present we are 
deprived of. You cannot do anything which in your 
opinion is calculated to raise your status to that of a 
civilized nation according to the modern standard. It 



[ 102 ] 

has been pointed out by more eloquent speakeis thagL 
myself and men who are entitled to your respect anS 
veneration far more than I am. I say it has been poin- 
ted out to me several times that unless we get a part of 
the freedom for which we are trying, for a part of the 
power which rests in the hands of the bureaucracy at 
present, it is impossible for us to attain that position to 
which we are entitled as a birthright. If you see what is 
your position at present, if you look around, you will 
see that you are crippled in every respect. Whether you 
take the question of industry, whether you take the 
question of education, or any^other question, everywhere 
there is a stumbling block in your way, so that you have 
not the power to carry out what you wish. We must 
be prepared to face this one important question before 
we can hope to make any progress— progress that is 
worth the name. Many of the objection to the attain- 
ment of Home Rule have already been answered in the 
Congress and out of the Congress. I would only take 
one or two of them because I am afraid that speaking 
in Knglish I shall not be understood by this large audi- 
ence and secondly because the time at our command is 
very short. You who are assembled here to listen to 
me and to do honour to me will, I think, agree that in 
honouring me you are honouring the cause of Home 
Rule. The very fact of your presence here to hear a 
speaker who has devoted some tilne to this question 
shows that you are all interested in Aat important que- 
stion. They say that there is no public opinion in In- 
dia in favour of Home Rule. This is a proposition 
which if ottr opponents were here will find "contradicted 



[ 103 ] 

the presence of you all. I do not think that you have 
Ij^me here to respect my person but I think you have 
come here to respect the cause of Home Rule ; and a 
very large gathering like this is a splendid refutation of r 
the objection that we are not prepared for Home Rule, 
that we are unable to exercise influence over the masses 
ill this country, that we can take no interest in it and 
that it will take several decades of years if not hundr- 
eds of years according to our opponents to render us fit 
for Home Rule. This meeting is in itself, as I said, a 
refutation of the charges that are brought against us. 
Another objection that is raised is that we Hindus never 
enjoyed Home Rule. Nothing can be more incorrect, 
more erroneous and false, I may say, than a statement 
like this. Many of you in Nothern Indin enjoyed Home 
Rule in ancient days. The Hindu polity which is in- 
cluded in the King’s duties in the Manusmriti 
text lays down a kind of social organization 
which is known as Chatur Varna. Many of you now 
believe that Chatur Varna consists merely of different 
castes that divide us at present. No one thinks of the 
duties belonging to these castes. A Kshattriya will 
not take food with the Brahmin and a Brahmin will not 
take food with a Vaishya and Vaishya will not take food 
with a Shudra. It was not so, let me point out, in the 
days of Manu and Bhagwatgita. Bhagwatgita expressly 
states that this division was not by birth but by the 
quality and by the profession which were necessary to 
maintain the whole society in those days. The Kshat- 
triyas defended the dominion and defended the people 
against foreign aggression and against internal inter- 



[ 104 ] 


ruptions. Where are those? The whole of that clas^ 
is gone off and their duties devolve upon the British wh^ 
have taken charage of the duties of Kshattriyas. Take 
again commerce. You think this is a commercial town. 
There arc many labourers but you- find that the country 
is exploited for the benefit not of India but of other 
nations. Raw products are exported and refined 
products are brought in to the sacrifice of several 
industries for which India was famous in ancient 
times. See the Vaishya class— that too is now 
being dominated by the British people or British mer * 
chants. Take the Brahmins. I am a Brahmin. We 
boasted that we were the inteliectual heads of the com- 
munity -we were the brain in fact— but that brain is 
now rendered so dull that we have but to import in this 
country foreign philosophy at the cost of our ancient 
learning in every department of life. What I consider is 
that Chatur Varna divides the whole society into so many 
departments of life and in every one of these departments 
you have been a loser every yekr, every decade, I 
want you now to recognize this fact and to try for gain- 
ing the position which we occupied in our own societies. 
We have been deprived of volunteering, we have been 
deprived of the right to the higher grades in service. 
The men remain, but the duties are gone and all your 
feeling at present is that I am a Kshattriya and yon are 
a Brahmin and that he is a Sudra. All have lost their 
titles. I am not partial to one or the other. I want you 
to realise the fact that although you may claim the blood 
of Kshatriya, although you may claim the blood of a 
Brahmin, you do not claim that polity, those qualifies- 



[ 105 ] 


^tions which the Sudras are enjoying which should have 
j^een yours at this moment. Now one aspect of Home 
Rule is to encourage you to acquire the freedom which 
you enjoyed in these various departments of life and to 
come up to that standard by the co-operation of and under 
the sovereignty of the British rule. This result is not to 
be achieved by any unlawful and unconstitutional means, 
but I am sure by -a desire and interest to raise your 
status to achieve this goal by means of the sympathy of 
the British people ond by remaining a permanent part of 
the Empire. But this part is of two Kinds. In a house- 
hold, servants form part of a household and children 
form part of a household. We want to occupy the part 
of children and not of servants -not a dead part but an 
equal part in that greatest Empire which the world has 
^ seen. We are quite willing to remain a part but not a 
dead part which will be a burden to the Empire but a 
living member, and a living member is expected to 
develop all the qualities which you find in the depart- 
ment of social life. It is with this view, gentlemen, that 
the Home Rule agitation has been started to make you 
masters in your house and not .servants. This is the 
real sense of that situation which every one is bound 
morally and intellectually to attain. Home Rule is 
nothing else, but to be masters of your houses. Have 
you ever thought of such a simple question ‘what am I 
in my house — am I a dependent or am I master ?’ And 
if India is your house I want to ask you, gentlemen, 
whether there can be any ground or reason to tell you 
that you ought not to be masters so far as your domestic 
affairs are concerned. When an Englishman has been 



[ 106 ] 

deprived of his rights he will not be content unless he 
gets back his rights. Why should you lag behind, why! 
should you not in the name of religion, in the name of 
polity, in the name of that polity which was cultivated 
in the past to the largest extent the history of the world 
has yet produced—in the name of that philosphy that is 
religions, I appeal to you to awaken to your position 
and do your level best for’the attainment of your birth 
right— I mean the right of managing your own affairs in 
your own home. If do not do it who will do it for you ? 
Do not be hypnotised. You are fit for it, only you have 
not seen it. You can get your object by your own efforts, 
by yor own action, and this is the self-realization that I 
want you to feel. If you once realise that you are the 
master of your domestic affairs as other men are, as men 
in the colonies and as men in the other parts are, T 
dare say nothing can stand between you and your object 
to attain it. It all depends upon your efforts. In 
Docknow and Cawnpore yon will find better men very 
soon addressing you on this subject, and if I can prepare 
the ground for the noble workers that are to come here- 
after, I shall not have spoken in vain today. It is a 
thing which you must look to now. Give up apathy. 
You are as good men as members of any other cmmunity 
in the world. You have hands and feet and you know 
what has been said in one of Shakespear’s dramas. We 
are certainly better than a Japanee and yet Japan has 
attained what you seem hopeless to attain and are in- 
different to aspire to get. Your fault lies not in the 
want of capacity or want of means but your fault lies in 
the want of the will. You have not cultivated that will 



[ 107 ] 

• which you ought to have done. Will is everything.^ 
Will-power makes it as strong as you can and the 
material world round you cannot drive you from attain'* 
ing the object which you will attain. You must make 
up that will and if that will is made up by every com- 
munity there is a proverb in my part that the divine 
power resides in five persons. Instead of 5 let me now 
change that 5 into 50Q millioTn; and if you realise the 
fact that you have a certain object to get that, you must 
attain to a particular stage to which you are entitled as 
birth -right. You must say that this will so strengthened 
cannot resist the forces th^t are arrayed against you. It 
is the will you have not been thinking over. You do 
not devote to it one moment of your life, one moment 
during the day. A Brahmin is for instance enjoined in 
• the Shastias to perform his prayers once in the morning 
and once in the evening. What is that prayer ? It is 
the cultivation of the will. Now let your prayer be, ‘I 
will try to have my birth-right’. Have that prayer 
every morning and evening. Do not forget it during all 
the work or business that you do during the day. If 
there be temptations in your way repeat that prayer in 
the morning and evening. Prayer has such a power as to 
surmount all obstacles; that is the effect of prayer. It 
is no use praying merely for nothing. God does not 
want prayer for himself. God does not need it. God 
does not want any praise from you — it is all useless. 
Realise that fact. What is the good of praying without 
any object. God has created you. God knows how to 
conduct his own creation. Do you mean to say that 
by your praying you cannot change the course of 



[ 108 ] 

Ivents of karma ? Do pray morning and evening i 
for Home Rule and I dare say that within a year" 
or two you can attain your object. Thanking you for 
your reception I close my remarks on the subject ; and 
if any of you have not understood me because I have 
spoken in English then some one of the gentlemen on 
the platform will undertake to repeat that for you, and I 
ask your pardon not to have' been able to address you in 
your own words. (Cries of Tilak Maharaj Ki-Jay. ) 


SWARAJYA- 

(Akoi.a 12th, January 1917). 

It was about 8 yrs ago that I had an occasion to speak 
to you and I well remember what I had said then when 
concluding my address. The ‘Rivet split’ had occured 
two years before, and I have said that the split was not 
due to divergence in ideals, but to difference of opinion 
as to the method of work which was to be followed to 
gain the one common ideal of Swarajya which was held 
up before the eyes of the Nation by the Grand Old Man 
of India, Dadabhai Naoroji, in his presidential speech, 
as the President of the Indian National Congress. Thus 
the difference being one of Method and not of ideal it 
would surely be forgotten as time rolled on. And the 
keenness of it would be lessened evety year till we met 
again on a common platform. The events and the last 
Congress have gratified my prophecy. The ideal of 
Home Rule has passed through trials and ordeals, and 
stands today perfectly bindicated as both loyal and 
practical. It is now conclusively proved that the gain 



[ 109 J 

^of one is the gain of both, and in India’s Self-Govern- 
ment lies the future stability and safety of the British 
Empire. Since Home Rule is an ideal bindicated in 
courts of Eaw as legal and loyal, it must be proved by 
arguments that India stood in immediate need of it, that 
India should demand it, and that the demand was justi- 
fiea by defects in the method of the working of the exis- 
ting mode of Government which could not be remedied 
except by Self-Government and that it was also proved 
that we were fit for receiving and handling the rights of 
swarajya when they come us. In justifying swaraj and 
pointing out the defects of* the present system of Govern- 
ment one had to use hard arguments and a language 
which — taking the subject matter into cansideration— 
could not be soft. And in certain quarters this was 
again resented. Our opponents said, “ Ask for Home 
Rule as much as you like but you must not criticize the 
bureaucracy ; that creates discontent. This was 
asking us to achieve an impossibility. It was as if you 
asked man to eat a fruit without biting it. To ask you 
to do so is only another way of preventing you from 
eating the fruit. How could the demand for Home Rule 
be justified without showing that there were defects in 
the present mode of working of the Government which 
were incurable without Home Rule in India ? And 
how could these defects be shown except by irrefutable 
arguments Which hit hard ? Luckily this question is 
solved by the Bombay High Court for us now, and it is 
now pronounced that criticizing the visible machinary 
of the Government is not sedition, that an angry word 
a hard expression, an indiscreat phrase might have been 



[ 110 ] 

^employed without meaning the least harm. Thus 
know that the ideal of Home Rule was lagitimate an* 
just, and critisizing mode of Government was not illegal, 
but the great question was yet undecided and the ques- 
tion was 

What was m^ant by Homk Rui.k. 

This is the third stage in the history of Home Rule. 
I am glad to tell you that the xast congress given a satisfac- 
tory answer to this question. It is not a solution which 
party puts forward ; it is not a solution which com- 
munity advances. It is a solution unanimously accept- 
ed by Hindus, Musalmans, Moderates and Nationalists 
alike. It means Representative Government, Government 
over which the people will have control. I shall tell 
•you also 

What it does mean. 

It does not mean snapping as under the connection 
between England and India ; it does not mean disclaiming 
the suzerain power of the King -Emperor. On the con- 
trary it affirms and strengthens both we need the pro- 
tection of England even as a matter of pure self-interest. 
This is the keynote to which the song of Home Rule 
must be tuned ; you must not forget this nor must you 
forget that it is the connection with England and the 
Education she gave that have given rise to the ambitions 
that fill your hearts today. 

Self-Government then as I told you means Represen- 
tative Government in which the wishes of the peoples 
will be repeated and acted upon and not disregarded < 
as now, in the interests of a small minority of civil 
setvahts. Eet there be a Viceroy and let him be an 



[ ni ] 

Englishman if you like, but let him «ct according to the 
advice of the representatives of the people. I,et our 
money be spent upon us and with our consent. I^et 
public servants be really servants of the public and not 
their masters as they at present are. The question as to 
how many members will sit in the council is immaterial. 
The material question is will the greater majority of 
them represent the Indian public or not, and will they 
be able to dictate the policy of the Government or not. 
This then is what Home Rule really means. 

A l,ONG AND WkarV PATH. 

Now I need hardly tell you that a long and weary 
path lies before you. You must tread it with courage 
and steadily. It is difficult thing to gain and therefore 
worth gaining. Great things cannot be easily gained 
and things easily had are not great. In the Gita Lord 
Shri Krishna says that among the 5 causes that lead 
to success ‘Daiva’ is one. Daiva is the chance that God 
gives you and leaves you to profiit by it or not. Daiva 
is something that human effort cannot control but which 
comes just at the time which is most opportune and it 
is entirely our fault if we do not know how to take ad- 
vantage of it. You have now Daiva in your favor. You 
must press your claims now. This is the time. If you 
fail to make an advance the world will march ahead 
and you will be left behind like the grass that grows by 
the road side, like the mile-stone that ever stands there. 



[ 112 ] 

IN REPLY TO ADDRESS OF THE 
YEOTMAL CITIZENS. 

(Yeotmai,, 9th January 1917). 

I thank you very much for the presentation of au 
address to me and for the hospitable reception, you have 
been kind enough to accord. But let me tell you, T have 
not come here to receive these nfarks of honour and I 
never expected them. I have come here to do something 
and if possible to ask you to do it, and that something is 
the work to be done in connection with the attainment 
of ‘vSwaraj’ or ‘Home Rule/ ■'It does not require high 
intelectual gifts to understand the meaning of ‘vSwaraj.’ 

It is a simple Sanskrit word meaning nothing more or less » 
then the power to rule our homes, and hence it is called 
in short ‘Home Rule.’ It is your birth right to govern 
your own house or home ; nobody else can claim to do 
it, unless you are a minor or a lunatic : the power of 
the Court of Words as soon as ‘Malik’ attains majority 
or becomes non- lunatic ; the agent or the court, to 
wliich the power was transferred, is in duty bound to 
transfer the same power back to the ‘Malik’ or the real 
owner. If the court or the agent will not do it, he must 
bring forth evidence to justify his action. We tell the 
Government that we are no longer minors, nor are we 
lunatics, and we are able and competent to look after 
our affairs, our ‘home’ and we will rule the ‘home’ ; 
we have got a right to say that we want this agent or 
that and we will guide the ‘Home Policy’, This de- 
mand for ‘Home Rule’ is not a new ond; the Congress 
and other elder and younger institutfons in the country 



L 113 J 


M iave been demanding it. Nor is the idea novel or new 
0 us. The village panchayets, the councils of Pandits 
or elders to advise and guide the king or Kmperor and 
such other kindred institutions were in existence for 
long. The King was not the final authority in the 
matter of Law ; the King himself used to consult wise 
men of high spiritual and moral developement, sages 
well versed in Shruti and Smriti, and then decide the 
point. King Dushyanta actually did it, when he had to 
accept Shakuntala and her son. The words 

were actually seen in the Shastras. Of course, the 
word Swaraj or ‘Home Riile has got a limited meaning 
to-day. The ‘Swaraj of to-day is within the Empire and/ 
not independant of it. There have been lots of mis- 
representations during the last two years by our opponants, 
and persecutions and prosecutions were the consequences. 
Now the meaning of Swaraj has been definitely defined 
by the congress at Lucknow ; there is now no room left 
for doubts and misrepresentations. The ‘Swaraj* or 
‘Self-Government’ as embodied in the Congress Reso- 
lution should be now openly owned and preached by 
every one. There is no sedition in it ; the High Courts 
do not find any sedition in it, Our way is now quite 
clear ; the difficulties have been removed. Every one of 
us, whether a Hindu or a Mohomedan, a moderate or a 
nationalist, should start with this clear perception of 
‘Swaraj’ and fearlessly preach it, with all the enthusi- 
asm he can commend. Our opponents say we are not 
fit ; but that is not true. Every one who is an adult 
and not a lunatic is fit to manage his housed We may 
commit mistakes in the begining ; but who is so perfect 
8 



I 114 J 


as to be beyond human failings ? Even great men err^ 
We want the right to commit mistakes also ; we wil® 
commit mistakes and ourselves rectify them; even the 
Great Avataras commit mistakes. The Government 
does not lay down any standard of fitness ; if they will 
lay down any we will try to attain that standard. Gov- 
ernments are not all definite. Those who ask us to be 
first fit and then demand Swaraj have no mind to give it 
to us at all. It is as good as to ask a boy to learn swim- 
ming and then to go into the river. The Second clause of 
the resolution in Self-Government, passed at I^ucknow, 
demands this ‘Swaraj’ at an early date. Our Oppo- 
nents advise us not to embarass the Government at this 
time ; further more they want us to believe that this is 
not the time to make the demand. My reply is that this 
is exactly the time when our demands should be put 
forth in a definite manner. The colonists are doing the 
same thing at this time and why should we not do it? The 
Policy of the Imperial Government is going to be chang- 
ed, and important changes are to be expected in the 
constitution and if we will not be awake at this time to 
guard our interests, who else will do it for us ? We 
ought not to sleep at this time; we must work for attain- 
ing our goal. 

God is hei^ping ds. 

It appears, God is helping us, for this time the pres- 
.ent circumstances are not the result of our actions or 
efforts; and so I say the time is favourable to us. When 
God has come to help us, shall we not exert ourselves ? 
Remember, if we loose this opportunity, we may not get 
another for a century or so ; the colonials have seen 



[ 115 ] 

this and they are demanding a voice in the Imperial 
affairs at this very time. Our demand is comparatively 
moderate. We simply demand a right to Govern our- 
selves. In the year 1906, Dadabhai Nowroji proclaim- 
ed from the Congress platform this ‘swaraj* as our ulti- 
mate goal. Till then seperate demands were made in 
separats departments ; till then we tried to catch the 
small hairs on the head; but* now we say we want to catch 
the hair tuffs so that we will be le- instated in our posi- 
tion, which is ours by birth ; so we see that our demand 
is clear and emphatic, made by persons of different 
opinions after much discussion about it at Lucknow. 
We have also seen that this is the most proper time to 
make that demand ; and we must work and work in- 
cessantly. You ought not to shirk work for fear of 
defficulties and dangers and pitfalls. They are bound 
to come and why should they not come ? 

Bn R^ADY FOR Dangers. 

Our Vedanta says there is little hapiness and much 
of evil and misery in the world. The world is such, it 
can not be helped. I foresee dangers in the way and 
the sighs of these dangers are not wanting ; recently 
Lord Sydenham, the late Governor of Bombay has asked 
the Government in the Ninteenth Century, to proclaim 
once for all that they do not intend to give any more 
reforms to the Indians ; let the Government declare, 
he says, “thus far and no further.*’ He expects by this 
move to shut permanantly the mouths of the Indians. 
I wonder what he means ! How can a proclamation of 
this nature shut our mouths ? It is a pity that Lord 
SydenhAm should betray so much ignorance of human 



[ 116 j 

nature ; most of the white skinned papers are raising 
the same cry ; perhaps this may be an indication of the 
future policy of the Government. 

Two WAYS OF Death. 

Whatever that be, one thing is certain, that the 
work before us is not easy. Fremendous sacrifices will be 
necessary ; nay, we shall have to die for it ; there are 
two ways of dying, one consitutional and other unconsti- 
tutional. As our fight is going to be constitutional and 
legal, our death also must as of necessity, be constitu- 
tional and legal. We have not to use any violence, 
nay, we condemn the unconstitutional way of dying. 
As our fight must be constitutional it must be courageous 
also. We ought to tell Government courageously and 
and without the least fear what we want. I/et Gov- 
isrnment know that the whole Nation wants Hom^ 
Rule, as defined by the Congress. Let there be no shir- 
king, or wavering, or shaking. I said that it was our 
‘‘right” to have Home Rule but that is a historical and 
a European way of putting it ; I go further and say that 
is our “Dharma” • You cannot separate “Home Rule” 
from us, as you cannot separate the quality of “heat” 
from fire ; both are inseparably bound up : let your 
ideas be clear ; let your motives be honest ; let your 
efforts be strictly constitutional and I am sure your 
efforts are bound to be crowned with success ,* never 
despair ; be bold and fearless and be sure God is with 
you. Remember “God helps those who help themselves.* 



I 117 J 

GRAND DEMONSTRATION 

Speech of Lok. Tieak deeivered At Home Rdeb 

I.ICAGUK OFFICK Ai.1,AHABAD. 

7 th OcU 1917^ 

Babu Motilal Ghose took the chair. I^ok. Tilak who 
was received with shouts of ‘Bande Mataram*, next 
addressed the meeting:. He 'said that every one knew 
what home rule meant. Home rule was the nothing but 
to have the management of their home in their own 
hands. That was simplest definition that could be given 
of the word. There was absolutely nothing to say why 
they wanted home rule. It was their birthright. Some 
people had been managing their affairs for them now, 
and they wanted that that management should be trans- 
ferred to their hands. They were entitled to that right and 
the burden of proving that they were not entitled to it 
lay on the other party. Home rule was not a new ex- 
pression. It was an expression that had a definite me- 
aning and it could not be misunderstood, though it was 
to the interest of some people to misunderstand it. All 
that they asked for was not a change in their rulers but 
administrators — he distinguished rulers from adminis- 
trators. The theory inflicted on them was that the rulers 
of this country were the administrators who had been 
appointed or selected under the Government of India 
Act. His view was entirely different. Those were not 
the rulers in the strict sense of the word. They re- 
presented the King but they were npt the King. The 
Indians also represented the King because they were 
his subjects just as much as those officers. So in the 



[ 118 1 


matter of representing the King the Indians and those j 
officials stood on equal basis. What then was there 
more in the position of these officers which made them 
say that they were the real rulers ? That was that 
certain powers had been given to them—they had not 
usarped those powers— under a Statute of Parliament. 
If another Statute of Parliament repealing that statute 
and giving the Indians those pdwers was passed the 
Indians would be what those officers were at present. 
That was home rule and nothing more. There would 
be no change in the Kinperor, absolutely no change in 
the relations of India with England or in the relations 
of India with the Empire as a whole. What was there 
to complain of in this except that some men would lose 
their trade ? If the power was transferred from one man 
to another the man to whom it was transferred would 
gain and the other would lose and if that other man 
would be angry it was natural. He did not think that 
any English politician would be deterred by such things 
for a moment from doing his duties. 

Continuing, Eok. Tilak said that 10 or 15 years ago 
to talk of home rule was sedition and people were afraid 
he himself was afraid, of talking about home rule. But 
now it was conceded both by the judiciary and the 
executive that home rule was a proper ambition for a 
dependency to entertain. Ten years of fighting was 
thus required to remove this prejudice against home rule 
and now they coulditalk about it as legitimate aspiration. 
The Viceroy, the Premier, the British nation and even 
the bureaucracy now agreed with them. Now what 
remained ? They said that it was a very good ambition 



[ 119 ] 

a dependency ; but there was time for it. They said 
That it would take centuries to attain it, and instances 
were cited of a number of colonies which attained self- 
government in 50 or 6o years. His reply to it was this. 
The colonies, it was true, had attained self-government 
in 50 or 60 years but Indians were being ruled for 100 
years, and they had not yet attained self-government. 
There must be a time limit fixed by the bureaucracy. 
The bureaucracy said that it was not in sight at present. 
He would say that this was an entirely selfish argument.' 
What was it that prevented them from attaining the goal 
within a few years after the war when the empire would 
be reconstructed ? At present India was nothing but a 
stone in the neck of the Empire. They knew on what 
principle the bureaucracy governed India for the last 
100 years. They were self-governing nation before. 
They knew how to organize an army, they knew how to 
dispense justice, they had laws, regulations, etc. All 
those had been swept away and now the buureaucracy 
said that they knew nothing about them. Who was res- 
ponsible for that ? Not the Indians. When they come 
here their first care was“he gave credit to them for it— 
to reduce the disorders prevailing then. How was it 
done ? Firstly by disarming them. Next all the 
prinicipal posts in the administration were monopolized 
by them. Next there was a check to scientific progress, 
and industries gradually disappeared. But, they said, 
they restored peace. That was true but peace was not 
everything. It was an introductory condition to further 
development. They had restored peace, they had given 
railways, telegraphs and other things. All credit to the 



r 120 ] 

bureaucracy for these things, but he could not give credit 
to them for doing anything which would develop theii^ 
national instinct. They had not done anything which 
would enable them to stand on their Ifcgs. The result 
was when in the name of the Empire they were asked to 
take up arms and fight the enemy they found that so few 
men volunteered. What was it that made them incapable 
of assisting the Empire to the extent that they [wished 
to do ? It was the system of administration followed by 
the bureaucracy. They had governed them in such a 
way that unless radical improvement was made in the 
system of administration the Empire would gain no 
material strength from this country. It was this thought 
that had actuated the best English statesmen to come 
forward and say that the system of administration in 
India must be revised after the war. 

Proceeding, Eok. Tilak said that from the time of 
Mr. Dadabhai Naoroji up to now they had been crying 
that they had been deprived of the powers of administra- 
tion and they should be restored to them. Now the 
British democracy had clearly seen that there was much 
force in their cry of reform and they were willing to hear 
their cry. Now the question was whether the bureau- 
cracy should have a say or whether the Indians should 
have a say. There was a judge and he had given notice 
that he was coming here and would hear what the 
Indians would have to say. Therefore they must press 
their demand more strongly than their opponents. That 
was their duty at present. They had to convince him 
that all arguments used against them were .due to pre- 
judice, The great work before them at present was to 



[ 121 ] 

Igducate the people to realize what Home Rule was. He 
^rould impress on them the supreme necessity of doing 
their best for getting home rule. They must wake up. 
If they made strenuous efforts then within a year or two 
they would realize if not all at least a part of their 
wishes. They did not want home rule at once ; but 
they wanted a real beginning, and not a shadowy beginn- 
ing. When Mr. Montagu came here he would speak to 
their leaders about their demand and he wanted that 
they should have the solid support of the country behind 
them. If that was done Mr. Montagu would carry their 
message to the British people and effectively support it 
with the authority of his ofiSce. (Applause). 


ANOTHER GRAND DEMONSTRATION 
ADDRESS BY Lok. TILAK. 

Apprai, For Unity. 

Allahabad the 8th Oct. \917. 

Another grand public meeting ot the Indian citizens 
•of Allahabad was held on Monday evening in the com- 
pound of the local Home Rule League office at which an 
address on Home Rule was delivered by Lok. Bal Ganga- 
dhar Tilak. The hon. Pandit Madan Mohan Malaviya 
was in the chair. As on Sunday the compound of the 
League’s office was fully crowded, the number of persons 
present being nearly the same as on the previous day. 
All sections of the Indian community were fully re- 
presented, and some had come from the mofussil as well. 
Several ladies were also present. The whole audience 



L 122 J 

listened to the address with considerable attention an(^ 
enthusiasm and gave Mr. Tilak a great ovation at the^ 
conclusion of the address. 

I/Ok. Tilak said that one objection raised against 
Home Rule was that if Home Rule was granted to them 
they would turn out British people from Innia. Indians 
did want English people, English institutions, English 
liberty and the Empire. But what they said was that 
the internal administration of India should be under 
Indian control. English people had it in England, 
they had it in the colonics and they had it everywhere 
and would claim it everywhere, and if it was not granted 
to them they would fight for it, and yet some denied to 
Indians that rights By whom was this bogey of expell- 
ing the English from India raised and for what purpose ? 
That must be clearly understood. It was perhaps under- 
stood in this country but it was their business to see that 
the British people understood it in the right way. Those 
that held power in their hands at present imagined that 
Indians were not capable of governing themselves to the 
limited extent implied by the word Home Rule. They 
did not tell Indians when they would be able to govern 
themselves. They did not fix any time-limit. Once it 
used to be said that Asiatic nations were not fit for self- 
government. That however was not said now. They 
now said that India was not now fit for self-government. 
If Indians asked them why, they were told that they had 
not that thing before, they were deficient in education, 
there were numerous castes quarrelling among them- 
selves, and only British administrators could hold even 
balance between rival sections. As regards unfitness he 



[ 123 ] 

t d said something about it the previous day. But it 
luired to be expanded. What was unfitness ? Did 
they mean to say that before the British came here there 
was no peaceful rule anywhere in India ? What was 
Akbar ? Was he a bad ruler ? No Englishman could 
say that. > Eet them go back to Hindu rule. There were 
the empires of Asoka, Guptas, Rajputs, etc. No history 
could say that all these empires had managed their statas 
without any system of administration. There were 
empires in India as big as the German empire and the 
Italian empire and they were governed peacefully. When 
peace reigned in the country under the Hindu, Buddhist 
and Mahomedan rule, what ground was there to say that 
the descendants of those people who had governed those 
empires were today unfit to exercise that right ? There 
was no disqualification, intellectual or physical which 
disabled them from taking part in the Government of 
any empire. They had shown their fitness in the past 
and were prepared to show it today if opportunities were 
granted to them. The charge of unfitness came only 
from those who held the monopoly of power in their 
hands. In every case of monopoly that argument was 
used. The East India Company used that argument. 
None of them present there whose ancestors had founded 
and administered empires would subscribe to the doctrine 
that Indians, whether Hindus or Moslems were incapable 
of governing themselves. The charge of incapacity was 
only brought forward by interested people, simply be- 
cause their self-interest demanded that some argument 
must be advanced in their support. They were not given 
higher posts to show their capacity. They were only 



[ 124 ] 


given subordinate posts. Without the aid of Indians ijj^ 
the subordinate departments it was impossible for th* 
British people to carry on the administration ; and so 
they were given all the subordinate posts. They had 
been fighting ever since the establishment of the Congress 
to break this monopoly and not without success! A few 
posts reserved for the civil service had been granted to 
them. A few appointments in the judicial department— 
High Court judgeships, etc.,— had been granted to them. 
What was the result ? He had not seen any resolution 
of the Government saying that when any post of respon- 
sibility was given to Indians they had misused those 
opportunities, that they had failed to come up to the 
standard ot efiiciency required. On the contrary resolu- 
tions had been issued saying that Indians who had acted 
as members of executive councils had done their duty 
very well. If they went to the Indian states they would 
find that all higher posts were held by Indians. What 
did the British administration reports say about these 
states ? They said that they were well administered. 
So the whole evidence that was possible for them to 
produce was in their favour. After barring them from 
these higher services and saying that they were not 
capable of governing was adding insult to injury. This 
kind of jugglery would not do. The British democracy 
would not tolerate it. If they simply pressed the right 
view on the British public, they would hear it now 
because they were in a mood to hear it. They had logic 
and experience on their side, but mere logic and truth 
would not succeed in this world unless backed up by 
persistent agitation and fixed determination to attain 



[ 125 ] 

* iat truth. They must be determined to see that truth 
iumphed and that triumph was what they meant to 
achieve. The Home Rule propaganda was intended for 
that purpose. 

Proceeding. lyok. Tilak said that another argument 
used against Home Rule was that there were .certain 
British interests which would be endangered if Home 
Rule was given. Mr. Jiiinah had told them the previous 
day that there were British interests not only in India but 
all over the world. Those British interests had been creat- 
ed, to speak in legal terminology, without their (Indian) 
consent. They had never be^n asked when those interests 
were created. Legally speaking they were not barred from 
agitating, They knew that those British interests would be 
safeguarded as far as justice and law were concerned. The 
la^V of the land would remain the same. The offices would 
remain the same. There would no doubt be a change, 
but that change would be so far as control was concerned, 
They wanted law. They could not do without law. To 
say that if Home Rule was granted to Indians there 
would be chaos was simpie nonsense. They wanted 
law, they wanted all the departments, even the C. I. D. 
They wanted as much good rule as at present. They 
did not want to lapse* into misrule. All that they wan- 
ted was to have those laws and rule and all those depra- 
tnients which administered those laws under their control. 
Only the previous day he read in the Pioneer the instance 
of Arrah riots and in mentioning the steps that had been 
taken to suppress that riot it appealed to Government to 
look to its duty namely, that of governing people. Did 
they mean to say that they were going to tolerate riots 



[ 126 ] 


under Home Rule ; Certainly not. They wanted peac^ 
They would frame such rules by which riots might ^ 
averted with the consent of the people, and not without 
their consent. As regards the question of employment, 
if the Europeans were prepared to serve they would 
employ them, if they were fit and if they would accept 
what they were paid. They did not want anybody to 
leave India, He knew that British capital was invested 
in railways, but they did not want to uproot the rails 
and send them away to England. They wanted the 
railway and he thought that railways could be better 
administered if more Indians were employed on them. 
There would be changes under Home Rule, but not chan- 
ges for the worse, they would lead to more efficient and 
economical rule. Their demand was at once sober and 
constitutional. It remained to be seen whether the Bri- 
tish democracy would grant, thofee demands or not. 
Continuing. Eok. Tilak said that what was at present 
lepuired was a good statement of their case so that the 
British people who now felt inclined to make a change 
in the constitution of the Empire might perceive the case 
more fully than they had hitherto done. It was the 
interest of some people to have the case misrepresented, 
to create misunderstanding and create darkness. That 
ought not to be allowed to be done. In this connection 
he must say that Home Rule leagues had done more 
work than the Congress committees. It had been said 
that there was the Congress and they were opposing the 
Congress by supporting the Home Rule League. His 
answer was no. The ideal and demand of the Home Rule 
League were the same as the ideal and demand of the 



t 127 ] 


^Congress. It had been expressly stated from the Home 
ilule League platform. They did not go beyond the Con- 
gress demand. He might say the Home Rnle League 
had been instrumental in bringing about that resolution 
passed by the Congress last year. So. there were no 
differences of ideas between the League and the Congress 
Then, it was asked, where was the necessity for the 
Home Rule League 2 The* work done by the Home 
Rule leagues spoke for itself. These Leagues had been 
started to educate the people and make them understand 
what their goal should be. If this work had been done 
by the Congress he should ;^t once have given up his mem- 
bership of the Home Rule League. Some people wanted 
to work more vigorously than others. He thought every 
one was entitled to do that. They might form small 
leagues under any name. The object was the same. 
He wanted every one of them to work in their own way 
either by leagues or by associations or individually 
under as many different names as they liked. Names 
3id not matter so long as the idea was the same. The 
work must be done provincially and in the vernaculars 
of the province. The work of educating the people 
could only be carried on in this way. There wss a time 
when the word Home Rule was looked upon with susp- 
icion as suggesting Irish methods, and the Irish distur- 
bances connected with the same. They could not find a 
thing which had no previous associations. They must 
not attach particular importance to particular words. 
The words were made for them and not they for the 
words. If they used the word Home Rule what was the 
objection to it provided they said in the beginning what 



[ 128 ] 

they meant by it ? That controversy was therefore ouU 
of place. The real dispute now was not about wordsT 
It was about educating the people and he knew that as 
they began to educate the people, the discontent among 
the official class would increase, because they would see 
that eventually the demand would be forced on them. 
They should not care for that discontent. There was 
a time when it was held that they^ should work in such 
a way as to enlist the sympathy of the administrators 
in the land. Of course they did wish to enlist their 
sympathy, but if that sympathy could not be enlisted 
without lowering the tone o^ the educative work and 
without lessening their effort; he was not prepared to 
secure that sympathy. They were all agreed that they 
must have Home Rule for their goal. They must strive 
for it. The question was how to strive for it. Some 
wanted to proceed slowly,, while others wanted to pro- 
ceed fast. He did not think that this was a difference 
for which they should quarrel and give an opportunity 
to their opponents to use these differences against them. 
They should not talk of method. Every one might have 
his one method provided it was constitutional. He 
wanted each man to keep himself within the bounds of 
law and constitution. He made a distinction between 
law and constitution. So long as lawmaking was 

not in their hands laws which were repugnant to justice 
and morality would be sometimes passed. They could 
not obey them. Passive resistance was the means to 
an end but was not the goal in itself. Passive resis- 
tance meant that they had to balance the advantages and 
nisadvantages arising from obeying a particular order 



[ 129 ] 

not obeying it. If in their balanced judgment they 
found that the advantages of disobeying it under parti- 
cular circumstances were greater, the sense of morality 
justify them in acting upon that conviction. This was 
a very complicated question, and not a question which 
could be discussed by a large gathering like that. They 
must leave the question to theii; leaders for their decision. 
They must clearly understand what passive resistance 
meant. It was a determination to achieve their goal at 
any sacrifices. If they wanted to reach their goal and 
if they were hindered by artificial and unjust legislation 
and by any unjust combination of circumstances it was 
their duty to fight it out. The Home Rule I^eague wan- 
ted them to know this. If they did not want to use the 
words ‘passive resistance’ they might use the words ‘at 
all sacrifices’ but he would use both words in the sense 
m which he explained them. He did not preach unru- 
liness or illegality, but he preached fixed determination 
t> reach the goal at any sacrifice. Passive resistance, 
he said, was perfectly constitutional. I^aw and consj 
titution were not the same. That was proved by history. 
So long as a particular law was not in conformity with 
justice and morality, and popular opinion according to 
the ethics of the 19th and 20th centuries, so long as a 
particular order was not consistent with all these prin- 
ciples it might be leagl, but it was not constitutional. 
That was a distinction which he wished them to observe 
very clearly. They should not confound the words ‘con- 
stitutionally’ and ‘legally.’ He wanted them therefore 
to confine themselves to strictly constitutional means 
land he wanted to tell them at the same time that every 



[ 130 ] 

law in the technical sense of the term was not constitt^ 
tional. They should educate their people and see that 
the right political ideal was placed before them, and their 
sense of justice roused so that they might work hard for 
that ideal without flinching in any way from it, and with 
all the detrmination they could command. 

In conclusion Lok. Tilak asked the people to join the 
Home Rule League in large numbers and do the wo^k of 
educating the people. They must wake up, and do the 
work enthusiastically. If they would not do it it would 
be great misfortune to the country. They would not 
only be ruining themselves but they would be ruining 
the future generation also. If they did not work for it 
now the future generations would curse them. They 
would have to do their duty to the country, to the future 
generations and above all to God. It was a duty which 
they owed to Providence which governed all nations.^ 
That Providence was favourably disposed towards them; 
and they should not let go the opportunity granted** to 
them by Providence. He would impress on them the 
necessity of moving unitedly at present, irrespective of 
caste or creed, or jealousies fearlessly and boldly. If 
they did that he was confident that their efforts would be 
crowned with success in the course of a few years by the! 
blessing of Providence. (Loud appi<au9S.)| 



[ 131 ] 

LOK. TILAK AT AGRA. 

IvKCTUR ON HOMK RUI.E. 

Agray 30 Nov, 17, 

Lok. Tilak delivered a public lecture this morning. 
Master Shanker Dayal was in the cheir. After some 
poems in Urdu and Hindi were read Uok. Tilak was called 
upon to speak and he thanked.the audience for allowing 
him an opportunity to express before them what was 
passing in his mind and said that he would devote the 
time allowed him to a review of India’s past political 

history and to indicate what should be done at the present 

• 

time. He said that the word Swarajya was first ii??ed 
by the revered leader Dadabhai Naoroji. At that time it 
was considered sedition to ask for Swarajya, but the 
Calcutta High Court decided that it was lawful to preach 
Swarajya. Several stages followed this and now it was 
fiot only permissable to preach and to ask for Home 
Rule, but even the Government had declared that the 
dCtta of their, policy in India was to grant responsible 
self-government to the people. To achieve this result 
many sufferings would have to be borne by Indians and 
much sacrifice would have to be made. The Anglo* 
Indians were hostile to our aspirations and they had 
submitted a scheme which was most reactionary and 
' calculated to deceive Indians, He said that Indians did 
not desire illusory concessions. They aimed at reforms 
Ai the central government which would as a matter of 
course remove the evils in provincial Government. 
There were to things upon which particular emphasis 
should be laid by Indians. First, there was the enlarge- 



L J 


ment of the Imperial Legislative Council with a niajo 
of elected members as proposed by the Congress -Lea 
scheme and the second thing was the subordinatioi 
the executive to the legislature. He made it clea 
the audience that unless the masses supported the a: 
tation led by the intellectuals, the hope of success 4 
meagre. It was necessary that a deputation should: 
sent to England and the public there should be instru 
ed regarding Indian conditions and Indians here sho 
back up the demands of the deputation by a vigor( 
agitation. He exhorted the audience to mdke sacrifi 
and to work unflinchingly for the attainment’ of Ho 
Rule. 


USEFUL BOOKS. 

Rs. 

As. I 

Saral Gita 

0 12 

Count Tolestoy’s three 
articles and his brief Life 

0 4 

Maharashtra Rahasya 

0 1 : 

Samanya Niti 

0 3 

Bhartra Hart Shatak 

0 1-2 

Can be had of 


Qrantha Prakashak Samiti, 

Benares Cityis 





auznu 



4517 





