BHAGAVADGiTA-RAHASYA 

^ OR 

KARMA-YOGA-S'ASTRA 

(English Translation) 

first Edition 
VOLUME II 




The Hindu Philosophy of Life, Ethics and Religion. 

OM-TAT-SAT 

S'RiMAD BHAGAVADGITA RAHASYA 

OR 

KARMA-YOGA-S ASTRA 

Including an external examination of the Gita, the 
Original Sanskrit stanzas, their English translation, 
commentaries on the stanzas, and a comparison of 
Eastern with Western doctrines etc. 

BY 

BAL GANGADHAR TILAK, B.A.. LL.B., 

Law Leotdrkb, and Fleader, Poona ; Sometime Additional Member 
OF the CODNOIL of H. e. THE GOVERNOR OF BOMBAY FOR MAKING 
Laws, Author of Orion or Eeaearc}iea into the Antiquity of the 
Vedas, Arctic Home in the Vedas, Vedanga Jyotiah AND Vedic 
Chronology, FOUND BR OF THE ' Kesari ’ AND THE Afaratha 

Newsi'apers Etc. Etc. 

TEANSLATED BY 

BHALCHANORA SITARAM SUKTHANKAR, M.A., LL.B., 

Solicitor, High Court, Bombay. 

Gibbs Prizeman; fc'etit Prizeman ( Cercle LitteTaire ); 
Dakshina Fellow; ete 

Vol. II. 

FiPlS'r EIPITJON 

1 10,000 Copies ) 

iasmad (isaktah satatani karyam karma samUcara I 

asakto hy acaran karma paramapnoti purumh 11 ( Gita, 3. 19 ). 

SakA Year 1857 ; 3936 A. D. 

POONA. 

Price (in India) Rs. G/- 




Published for Tilak Bros, by;—R, B. Tilak, Lokamanya 
Tilak Mandir, 568, Narayan Peth, Poona City, (INDIA), 

AND 

Printed by S. V. Parulekar at tbe Bombay Vaibhav Pfess, 
Servants of India Society’s Building, Sandhurst Road, 
Bombay. (INDIA). 

All rights including rights of translation, abridgement, summary, 
synopsis, etc, arc re.scrved by the Publishers. 


27651 




Various Vernacular Editions 

OF THE 

GITA-RAHASYA 


MARATHI 

First Edition, June 1915. 

Second Edition, September 1915. 

Third Edition, September 1918. 

Fourth Edition, 1923. 

First Edition in two parts, 1924-1926. 

HINDI 

First Edition, 1917. 

Second Edition, 1918. 

Third Edition, 1919. 

Fourth Edition, 1924. 

Fifth Edition, 1925. 

First Edition in two parts, 1926. 

Sixth Edition, 1928 . 

Seventh Edition, 1933. 

GUJARATHI 

First Edition, 1917. 

Second Edition, 1924. 

BENGALI 

First Edition, 1924. 

KANARESE 

First Edition, 1919. 

TELUGU 

First Edition, 1919. 

TAMIL 

First Edition, (First Volume only), out of print 



Works of the Late LOK. B- G. TILAK- 


( ENGLISH ) 


1. The Arctic Home in the Vedas ( Price Rs. 5). 

2. The Orion, or Researches into the Antiquity of the 
Vedaa (Price Rs, 2 ). 


3. The Vedic Chronology and the Vedanga Jyotisha 
(Price Rs. 3). 


4. THE GItA-RAHASYA. 

English, in two volumes. Price Rs. 10 

Marathi, in two volumes. Price Rs. 4 

Gujarathi, (cloth bound) ditto. 

Hindi, „ ditto. 

Kanarese, „ ditto. 

Telugu, „ ditto. 

Bengali, (card board) ditto. 

5. S'RIMAD BHAGAVADGITA, 

(text, translation and important commentaries ) 
Hindi, Gujarathi, and Marathi; cloth 12 as; paper 8 as. 
Three-coloured portraits and pictures :— 

Lokamanya Bal Gangadhar Tilak, 

size 20" by 27", 8 as. each, 
size 12" by 18", 4 as. each. 


The Battle-field'of Kuru-Ksetra 

size 20" by 27", 8 as. each, 
size 12" by 18", 4 as. each. 
All the above books and pictures can be had of:— 
Messrs. TILAK Bros., 

Lokamanya Tilak Mandir, 

568, Narayan Peth, 

Poona City (INDIA). 



GENERAL RULES REGARDING 
THE TRANSLATION. 

(i) Wherever a philosophical Sanskrit word used in the 
Marathi text (not being a technical philosophical term which 
has been Anglicised), has been rendered by me into English, I 
have, wherever necessary, placed immediately after such 
rendering the actual word used by the author in the original, in 
italics, and within brackets ; e. g., bodily {kayilca), Self-Realised 
(atma-jnaidn), occasional {ncdmitlika), etc. This has been done to 
enable such of my readers as are acquainted with Sanskrit to 
understand what the Author himself wanted to say; in case my 
rendering has not been correct. 

(ii) If the word in the original text is a technical philoso¬ 
phical word, which has been Anglicised, I have used the word 
in Roman characters, beginning with a capital letter, e. g., 
Jiva, Paramesvara, Prakrti, Paramatman, Atman etc. 

(iii) Diacritical signs have been used in order to ensure 
collect pronunciation by the reader, whose attention is drawn 
to the tabular statement at p. viii showing what diacritical 
sign has been used for indicating which sound. 

(iv) Technical philosophical English words are used with 
an initial capital letter in order to distinguish them from 
when they are not so used, e. g., Real, Matter, Spirit, the 
'Imperceptible, Knowledge, Mind, Consciousness, the Quality- 
less etc., unless the words have been used as adjectives, or in a 
non-teohnical sense, e. g., the qualityless Brahman etc. 

(v) If in the text itself, tliere is a Sanskrit word in 
brackets after another Sanskrit word, (which latter one has 
been rendered by me into English), the Author’s word in 
brackets, though in Sanskrit, has not been put into italics, in 
order to distinguish the case from where I have put such words 
in italic characters, in brackets, after the rendering, as 
mentioned in (i) above. 

(vi) If the Sanskrit word in the original has been retained 
in the translated text, its rendering in English is placed after 
it in brackets; e. g., the karya (product), karma ( Action ) etc. 
This has been done only where the retention has been necessary 
on account of the context. 



viii GENEEAL EULES EE: THE TEANSLATION 


(vii) I have not added anything of my own in the translated 
text except as follows :-In almost all places where the Author 
has given a Sanskrit quotation, he has immediately after¬ 
wards translated this quotation or given a summary of it in 
Marathi; and this, of course, has been translated into English. 
In some places, however, the Author has not translated a 
Sanskrit quotation into Marathi; and in these cases, I myself 
have translated ut into English, for the convenience of the 
reader not acquainted with Sanskrit; but, wherever this has 
been done, I have added the word “ •—Trans.” after the trans¬ 
lation. Any inaccuracies in such translations, would, of course, 
be mine. Where, however, such a quotation has been from 
the Gita itself, I have rendered into English, the translation of 
that quotation, as made by the Author himself, in his trans¬ 
lation of the stanzas of the Gita (as appearing in this Volume). 

B. S. SUKTHANKAE. 


SCHEME OF TEANSLITEEATION OF SAHSKEIT 


3T ... 

«•« 

a 


. k 

Z ... 

... th 

^ ... 

... b 

art ... 

«»• 

a 


.. kh 


... d 

... 

... hh 

? ... 

■ • * 

i 


. 9 

z ... 

... dh 

IT ... 

... m 

^ ••• 


1 


. gh 

or ... 

... n 

^ ... 

... y 

... 

«*• 

u 


. n 

z ... 

... t 

T ... 

r 

3r ... 


u 


. c 

«r ... 

... th 

? ... 


^ ... 

• • « 

T 


. ch 

f ... 

... d 

g ... 

... V 

... 


e 

3T 

. j 

... 

... dh 

^ ... 

... s 

^ ... 


ai 


. jh 

z ... 

... n 

g ... 

... .S 

3Tt ... 


0 

sr 

. n 

g ... 

... p 

W ... 

s 

3ft ... 

... 

au 


. t 

gr ... 

... ph 

f ... 

... h 

• (anusvara) m 


( vimrga ) ah 

, ^. 

. ks, 

^.... 

. .jn 


( mmnrnhn i 

















THE NUMBER OF VERSES ATTRIBUTED TO THE 
VARIOUS CHARACTERS FIGURING IN THE 
GiTA IN ORDER OF ADHYAYAS. 


Chapter. 

Dhrtarastra. 

Sanjaya. 

Arjiina. 

, Lord 

Sri Krsna. 

Total 

No. 

I ... 

1 

25 

21 


47 

II ... 


3 

6 

63 

72 

HI .. 


... 

3 

40 

43 

IV 



1 

41 

42 

V ... 



1 

28 

29 

VI ... 


... 

5 

42 

47 

VII ... 


... 


30 

30 

Yin ... 




26 

28 

IX ... 



... 

34 

34 

X ... 



7 

35 

42 

XI ... 


8 

33 

14 

55 

XII ... 



1 

19 

20 

xin ... 

... 



34 

34 

XIV ... 




26 

27 

XV ... 




20 

20 

XVI ... 



... 

24 

24 

XVII ... 

... 



27 

28 

XVIII ... 

... 

5 

2 

71 

78 


1 

41 

84 

574 

700 














X PICTORIAL MAP OF PHILOSOPHICAL SCHOOLS 


EXPLANATION of THE PICTORIAL MAP OF THE 
PROMINENT SCHOOLS OF INDIAN PHILOSOPHY 
mentioned in the QITA-RAHASYA. 


Shown on the wrapper 



and opp. page 18, 
{ Volume I). 


The river is the River of Time, on the banks which are the' 
various Ages through which India has passed, namely, (1) the 
Vedio Age, (2) the Age of the Gita, (3) the Age of Buddha,, 
^4) the Age of Shri Shankaraoharya, (5) the Age Dnyaneshvara, 
Tukarama and others being the Age of Devotion, (6) the Age of 
Shri Samartha Ramadasa, showing the revival of Action, and 
(7) the deputation of Indian Leaders at the gates of the Houses 
of Parliament and (8) Mahatma Gandhi, in the Present Age. 

Nos. 1, 2, 6, 7 and 8 are the Ages of Action, or of Karma- 
Yoga starting with the Vedio Karma age, and ending with the 
present days, and forming a big L, which means the Lucky 
Ages ; whereas Nos. 3, 4 and 5 are the Ages of Renunciation 
which are only a small passing cloud on the Karma-Yoga 
tradition of India. 

The narrow bed of the river in the Ages of Renunciation, 
spreads out as it flows down along the plains of the Ages of 
Action, suggesting the widening out of the view-point of 
Philosophy from the narrow Pass of Renunciation to the broad 
Fields of Action. 

The two inset pictures in the form of the ‘ Svastika ’ show 
the five Pandavas on the Kuru field, and the five Indian 
leaders near the Houses of Parliament, in each case, on the 
Field of Action, The last picture is of Mahatma Gandhi, the 
latest Karma-Yogin of India. 


R. B. TILAK. 



(Reprinted from Vol. / for ready reference 
for the convenience of the Reader) 

Detailed Contents of Yolame I with special reference 
to the subject-matter of chapters I to XIII 

CHAPTER I—INTRODUCTORY. 

The importance of Srlmad Bhagavadgita—the words used 
at the end of each chapter of the Gita showing the conclusion 
of the chapter—the meaning of the word ‘Gita’—description of 
several oth(3r Gitas and the inferiority of these Gitas and of 
the Yoga-Vasistha etc.—methods of examination of a book— 
modern external critics of the Bhagavadgita—the explanation 
of the moral of the Gita as given in the Mahabharata—the 
Prasthanatrayi (i. e., the Upanisads, the Vedanta-Sutras and 
the Bhaga%'adglta), and the doctrine-supporting commentaries 
on it—explanations of the moral of the Gita according to these 
commentaries—Sri Saihkaracarya—Madhusudana—^“Tat-Tvam- 
Asi ’—the Paisaca-Bhasya—Ramanujaoarya—Madhvacarya— 
Vallabhaoarya—Nimbarka—-Srldharsvami—JSanes vara—the 
point of view of all of them is to support some doctrine or 
other—the method of finding out the import of a work, without 
seeking to support a doctrine—^how that method is neglected 
by the doctrine-supporting method—the introductory remarks 
and the concluding portion in the Gita—the deadlock arising 
from mutually conflicting Ethical principles, and the resulting 
confusion as to one’s duty—the advice in the Gita for solving 
that confusion ... ... ... p. 1 to 39 

CHAPTER II. KARMA-JIJNASA- 
( f'HE DESIRE TO KNOW THE RIGHT ACTION ) 

Two English (foreign) examples of the doubt about duty— 
the importance of the Mahabharata from this point of view—the 
doctrine of Non-Violence fa/MWisa-d/jaraia), and the exceptions to 
it—the doctrine of Forgiveness (fcsama), and the exceptions to 
it—the discrimination between Truth {satya) and Falsehood 
(anrta) according to our Sastras—a comparison of that discrimi¬ 
nation according to English (foreign) Ethics—superiority and 
importance of the point of view of our philosophers—^the 
observance of a vow {pmtijnu) and its limitations—the doctrine 



xii 


DETAILED CONTENTS OS' VOLUME I 


of Not'Stealing, and the exceptions to it—the exceptions to 
the doctrine that ‘ living is more important than dying ’— 
self-defence—duties owed to one’s mother, father, preceptor 
(gtiru) and other revered persons, and the exceptions to the 
same—the relative importance of the restraint of Desire (kania). 
Anger (krodha) and Avarice (lohJia)—-the occasions and the 
limits of Time and Place for showing courage, and other 
virtues—the relative importance of different courses of 
Action—the subtle distinction between Morality (dharnia) and 
Immorality {adharnui), and the wonderfulness of the 
Gita,,, ... ... ... ... p. 40-69 

CHAPTER III. 

KARMA-YOGA-S ASTRA. 

(The Science of Right Action). 

The importance of the Desire to know the Right Action 
{karma-jijMsa) —the first Chapter of the Gita and the necessity of 
the Science of Right Action—the definition of the meaning of 
the word ‘Karma’—the subject of Karma according to Mlmaihsa 
writers—the definition of the meaning of the word ‘ Yoga ’ 
according to the Gita—Yoga=Karma-Yoga, and that is the only 
doctrine which is expounded—synonyms for Right Action 
(Aarma) and Wrong Action or Non-Action (akarma) —the three 
methods of scientific exposition, namely the Materialistic 
(udhibfiautika), the Intuitionist (ddhidaivika), and the Metaphy¬ 
sical (adhydrmika) —^why these methods came into existence—'the 
opinion of Comte—the Metaphysical point of view is the best 
according to the Gita—two meanings of the word ‘dharma’ (i) 
with reference to the next world and (ii) with reference to this 
world—the system of the four castes and other systems—it is 
‘ dharma ’, because it maintains the world— 'dharma’ in the form 
of precepts (cociaMa)—ordinary rules for distinguishing between 
righteous and unrighteous Action (dharmddharma) —the doctrine 
of ‘ mahdjano yewi gatah sa panthSh ’, i. e., ‘that path is the true 
one which is followed by the great’, and the exceptions to it— 
the doctrine of 'ati sarvidra varjayet’, i. e., ‘avoid extremes’, and 
its incompleteness—the definition of Righteousness by consi¬ 
dering what is not objected to (avirodha) —^the object of the 
science of Karma-Yoga ... ... ... n. 70-101 




DETAILED CONTENTS OF VOLUME I 


xiii 


CHAPTER IV. 

ADHIBHAUTIKA-S U KH AVADA. 

{ The Materialistic theory of Happiness ). 

An indroduction to tho outlines of the subject—principles 
determining Morality fdliarnui) and Immorality (adluirmi )—• 
Carvaka’s doctrine of unalloyed selfishness—‘far-sighted 
selfishness ’ of Hobbes—Philanthropy is as much an inherent 
desire as selfishness—the doctrine of Yajiiavalkya of the benefit 
of the Atman (dtmdrtha) - the doctrine of tho combination of 
self-interest and other’s-interest, or ‘enlightened self-interest’— 
tho objecti jns to that doctrine—the doctrine of giving higher 
importance to othor’s-interest—the doctrine of ‘the greatest 
good of the greatest number’—the objections to that doctrine— 
who is to decide in what the greatest good of the greatest 
number lies, and how—tho superiority of tho Reason (buddhi) 
of the doer, over the Action itself- -why ono should do good to 
others—the perfect state of mankind—that which is meritorious 
(ireya), and that which is pleasurable (prcya )—the transitorinoss 
of Happiness and Unhappiness, and the immutability of Moral 
principles ... ... ... ••• p. 102-128 

CHAPTER V. 

SUKHA-DUHKHA-VIVEKA. 

( The Consideration of Happiness and Unhappiness ). 

The inclination of everyone towards Happiness—the 
characteristic features of and difference between Happiness and 
Unhappiness -whether Happiness is an independent thing, or 
means only the absence of Unhappiness—the opinion of the 
School of Renunciation—the refutation of that opinion—the 
doctrine of the Gita—Happiness and Unhappiness are two 
independent feelings (hhava )—the contrariety between the 
Happiness and Unhappiness arising in this world—whether 
there is more of Happiness or of Unhappiness in worldly life— 
the Western theory that there is a preponderance of Happiness— 
that worldly life is full of happiness does not follow from the 
fact that all mankind does not ooinmit suicide—the uncontrol¬ 
lable growth of the Desire for Happiness—the impossibility of 




xiv 


DETAILED CONTENTS of VOLUME I 


extinguishing the Desire for Happiness hy enjoying Happi¬ 
ness—therefore, there is a preponderance of Unhappiness in 
worldly life—the propositions of our philosophers, consistent 
with this point of view—the opinion of Schopenhauer—the 
usefulnesss of Dissatisfaction—'how to avoid its evil effects— 
experiencing of Happiness or Unhappiness is within one’s 
control, and characteristic features of the Hope for Fruit of 
Action—prohibition of the Abandonment of Action, since 
Unhappiness can be averted only by giving up Hope for Fruit 
of Action—the limits of restraint of the organs—the four 
aphorisms fsutras) of the doctrine of Right Action—the animal 
nature of Bodily, that is, of Material Happiness—the superi¬ 
ority and immutability of Happiness which is born of the 
Atman, that is, of Metaphysical Happiness—the blending of 
these two kinds of Happiness is the ideal according to the 
doctrine of Right Action—the happiness born of the enjoyment 
of Bodily pleasures, is inconstant and unfit to be an 
ideal—the incompleteness of the Doctrine of Material 
Happiness ... ... ... ... p. 139-166 

CHAPTER VI. 

ADHIDAIVATA-PAKSA AJJO ESETRAKSETRAJNA- 

VICARA. 

( The Intuitionist School and the Consideration of the 
Body and the Atman ). 

The Western School of ‘ Conscience ’—similar references 
in Indian philosophical works to the Goddess of the Mind 
( imnodevala )—the objections of the Materialistic school 
against the Intuitionist school—the decision as to what ought 
not to be done can be quickly made, by habit and practice— 
‘ Conscience ’ is not an independent force—the objections of the 
Metaphysical school—the great factory of the human Body— 
the respective functions of the organs of Perception and the 
organs of Action —the respective functions of the Mind and the 
Reason—'the difference and inter-relation between the Discern¬ 
ing (Pure) Reason (vijavasayatmika buddhi) and Practical Reason 
{rdsanrUmikd hiiddhi )—the Discerning Reason is initially one, 
but is of three different kinds, according as it is sditvika, etc.—■ 



DETAILED CONTENTS OF VOLUME I 


XV 


•Conscience is included in, and not different from, Discerning 
Keason—the nature of the Consideration of the Body and the 
Atman, and of the Perishable and the Imperishable, and its 
relation to the doctrine of Karma-Yoga (Right Action)—‘the 
meaning of the word ‘ /c.w/ra ’ (Body)—the existence of the 
‘ ksetrajm ' that is, of the Atman—introduction to the Consi¬ 
deration of the Perishable and the Imperishable p. 167-201 

CHAPTER VII. 

KAPILA-SAMKHYA-SASTRA or KSARAKSARA- 
VICARA. 

(The Kapila-Saihkya Philosophy or the Consideration of the 
Mutable and the Immutable). 

Systems of philosophy dealing with the Mutable and the 
Immutable—^the Atomic Theory of Kanadas—Kapila-Saihkhya- 
the meaning of the word ‘ Saihkhya ’■ -works dealing with the 
Kapila-Sariikhya System—the Doctrine of Satkarya-vada (some¬ 
thing being produced out of something which existed)—the 
fundamental substance of the world, or Prakrti is one—sattva, 
raja, and tania are its three constituents—the Static or samya 
condition (samyaimlha) of the throe constituents, and the 
creation of various objects by their mutual intermixtures—■ 
Matter (Prakrti) is imperceptible, unbroken, homogeneous, and 
inactive—the evolution of the Perceptible (tyakfa) out of the 
Imperceptible (uvyakta )—Mind and Reason spring from 
Matter--the Cross (Materialistic) Monism (Non-Dualism) of 
Haeckel, and, tracing the origin of the Atman from Matter are 
not acceptable to Saihkhya philosophy—Matter {prakrti) and 
Spirit ( purutia) are two independent Principles—of these, the 
Spirit ( puriim) is inactive, qualityloss, and apathetic, and all 
activity is of Matter ( 2 >rakrti) -the unfurlraent of the Cosmos 
is due to the union of the two- -Release (mokm) is attained by 
Realising the difference between Matter and Spirit—whose is 
the Release, of Matter or of tlie Spirit?—innumerable Spirits 
of the Saihkhya system, and the sole Spirit of the Vedantists— 
the condition of being beyond the three constituents {triyuniifila- 
malha )—the difference between the doctrines of the Saihkhya 
system, and similar doctrines of the Gita ... p, 202-228 



xvi DETAILED CONTENTS OF VOLUME 1 
CHAPTER VIII. 

The construction and destruction of the 

COSMOS. 

The unfurlment of Matter—the characteristic features ol 
(Spiritual) Knowledge {jnana) and worldly knowledge 
(vijfiam )—the various theories as to the Creation of the Cosmos, 
and their ultimate oneness—the modern theory of Evolution, and 
its similarity to the Sarhkhya theory of the ‘ Developing-out' 
of the Constituents (gunotkar ^)—an exposition of the theory of 
the order of unfurlment of the Constituents of Matter, or of 
the theory of the development of Constituents ( grinotkarm- 
vaxla, or gaiiaparindma-vcLda .)—the growth from Prakrti, first, 
of Discerning Reason {vyavasaijafmilca buddhi), and then of 
Individuation {ahamkdra )—their innumerable sub-divisions 
under three main heads—the growth from Individuation of 
eleven elements, including the Mind, in the organic world, and 
• of the five Subtle (fine) Elements called ‘Tanmatras’ in the 
inorganic world—the reason why there are only five fine 
elements (Tanmatras), and only eleven subtle organs—the evo¬ 
lution of the Gross from the Subtle—Cosmic Tree of 25 
elements—The Cosmic Tree (brahnui-vrkm) of the Anugita and 
the Pipal-Tree (asvw/f/ia) in the Gita—the different Saihkhya and 
Vedantio methods of classifying the twenty-five elements—the 
relative tabular statement—the order given in books on 
Vedanta of the creation of the five gross primordial elements—■ 
and the subsequent growth of all gross objects by Panclkarana 
(unifying of five)—its comparison with the Trivrtkarana 
(union of three) mentioned in the Upanisads—the living 
creation and the Subtle Body (Unga-sarira) —the difference 
between the Subtle Body according to the Vedanta and the 
Saihkhya philosophies—the activity (bhava) of the Reason, and 
the Karma of Vedanta—Cosmic Destruction (pralaya) —the 
period from Cosmic Creation to Cosmic Destruction—the 
duration of a Kalpayuga—the day and night of Brahma- 
deva, and the duration of his life—the contrast and similarity 
of this Theory of the Evolution of the Cosmos with other 
theories. ... ... ... ... p. 229-267 



DETAILED CONTENTS OF VOLUME I 


xvii 


CHAPTER IX. 

ADHYATMA. 

(The Philosophy of the Absolute Self ) 

Objections to the Duality of Matter and Spirit—the 
method of considering that which is beyond both—the 
^.bsolute Self ( paramatnia or para purui^) is beyond both—the 
Trinity of Matter (Cosmos), Spirit (Jlva) and the Highest 
[svara (Parameivara )—the description of the form of the 
Paramesvara as given in the Gita—the Perceptible {vyakta} 
er Qualityful (saynna) form, and its inferiority—the Impercep¬ 
tible, capable of Perception by Illusion ( May&)—the three 
divisions of the Imperceptible into (i) qualityful (ii) quality¬ 
less and (iii) qualityful-qualityless—similar descriptions 
in the I'panisads—the methods of worship (ndya) and symbols 
(pratika ) mentioned in the Upanisads for worship (upasana )— 
of the three imperceptible forms, the qualityless is the 
best—(p. 289)—the scientific exposition of the above doctrines— 
the moot meanings of the words ‘Qualityful’ (mguna) and 
‘Qualityless’ (niryuna )—the natural idea of Immortality—’how 
the Knowledge of the universe is acquired, and what it consists 
of—the description of the process of acquiring Knowledge, and 
definition of Names and Forms—'the Appearance of Names 
and Forms, and the Thing-in-Itself {vastu-tafva) —the definition 
of the Real (salija)\ Names and Forms are unreal {asatya} 
because they are perishable, and the Thing-in-itself {vashi-tatva} 
is Real, because imperishable—the Thing-in-Itself is the 
imperishable Brahman, and Names and Forms are illusory— 
the meaning of the words Real (salya) and Illusory (mithyu) 
in Vedanta—the embodiment of Material Sciences is Names 
and Forms (p. 302)—the theory of vijflana is not acceptable 
to Vedanta—the ancientness of the doctrine of Maya—the 
form of the immutable (nitya) Brahman, clothed in Names 
and Forms, and of the Embodied (mrira) Atman is the same— 
why both are said to bo of the form of Consciousness 
{dt) —the identity of the Brahman and the Atman is expressed 
by saying: “what is in the body (pfriha) is also in the Cosmos 
{ brahmuru^a)” —the bliss of Realising the Brahman (brahma- 
•nanda ) —the death of the Ego—the fourth state ( turiydvasthd ) 



xvjii 


DETAILED CONTENTS OF VOLUME I 


and the exclusive contemplation of the One Entity, without 
separate consciousness of the Known and the Knower 
{ nirvikalpa-sarnudhi )—the ultimate limit of Immortality and 
the death of Death (p. 321) —the growth of Dualism ( dvaita- 
vada )—both the Gita and the Upanisads propound the 
Non-Dualistic Vedanta—how the qualityful Maya (Illusion ) 
grows out of the Qualityless ( niryurui) —the ‘ vivarta ’ theory 
and the ‘ gunapaririania' theory—the doctrines of the 
Philosophy of the Absolute Self, in short, regarding the 
Cosmos ( jagat ), the Personal Self ( jlva ) and the Highest 
Isvara { Paramesvara), (p. 336) —the Reality or Unreality 
of the Brahman—‘Om-Tat-Sat ’ and other symbols of 
the Brahman—how the I’ersonal Self (jivu) is a part of the 
Paramesvara—the Paramesvara is unbounded by Time and 
Space (p. 341) —the ultimate doctrine of the Philosophy of 
the Absolute Self—the feeling of Equability ingrained in 
the bodily organs—the nature of Release (mofcsa) and a 
description of the State of Perfection (mldhdvasthd), (p. 346) — 
an exposition giving the literal meaning of the Nasadlya- 
Siikta in the Rg-Voda—^the inter-relation between the previous 
and the subsequent chapters ... ... p. 268-358 

CHAPTER X. 

KARMA-VIPAKA AND ATMA-SVATAMTRYA. 

(The Effect of Karma and Freedom of Will). 

The Maya-world and the Brahman-world—the strata of 
the Body ; and the Subtle Body to which Karma clings—the 
mutual relation between Karma, Names and Forms, and 
Maya—the definitions of Karma and Maya—as the origin of 
Maya cannot be found, it is eternal, though it is dependent— 
the expansion of Matter embodied in Maya, or the Cosmos, 
is Karma—therefore. Karma is also eternal—the uninterrupted 
working of Karma—the Paramesvara gives the Fruit of 
Action according to the Action, without interfering with the 
matter (p. 368)—the adherence of the bond of Karma, and an 
introduction to the theory of Freedom of Natural Inclination 
(pravrtfi svatamirya )—the division of Karma into Accumulated 
(mmdta). Commenced ( prnrahdha), and To-Be-Performod 
{h'iyamd'na )—the Accumulated Karma is exhausted only by 



DETAILED CONTENTS OF VOLE ME I 


XIX 


its being suffered (“ prZiraMha hirmamii'n bhorjud eva kmyah ”)— 
the Doctrine of ‘ Naiskarrnyasiddhi ’ (Release by refraining 
from Action) of the Mlrnaihsa School, is not acceptable to the 
Vodantists--ther(! is no escape from the Bond of Karma, 
except by Jnana (Knowledge)—the meaning of the word 
‘ Jfiana ’—the Embodied Atman is free to acquire Knowledge 
(p. 389), but as it does not possess implements for doing so, it 
is to that extent dependent—even the most trifling Action, 
performed for obtaining Release is not wasted—therefore, 
success will be obtained sometime or other by hard work— 
the nature of the Destruction of Karma—one cannot escape 
Karma, hut should give up the Hope of Fruit—the bond of 
Karma is in the Mind, not in the Karma—therefore, whenever 
Jnana is acquired. Release is the only possible result—the 
importance, nevertheless, of the liour of close of life (p. 400) 
the Karma-kSnda and the Jnana-kanda—tlie Yajna prescribed 
by the Srutis, and that proscribed by the Smrtis—the state of 
a householder involving the performance of Action—its two 
divisions into Knowledge-full and Knowledge-less Action— 
different ultimate states accordingly—the Devayana and the 
Pitryana paths—whether these words indicate the time of 
death, or deities—the third path namely, the path to hell— a 
description of the condition of one who is Free from Re-birth 
(Jimnmukla) ... ... ... ... p. 359-415. 

CHAPTER XL 

SAMNYASA and KARMA-YOCrA. 

(Renunciation and Karma-Yoga.) 

The question of Arjuna as to whether Sarhnyasa or Karma- 
foga was the better course —similar paths of life according to 
Western philosophy—synonyms of the words ‘Saihnyasa’ and 
‘Karma-Yoga’—moaning of the word ‘Saiiinyasa’—Karma- 
Yoga is not a part of Sarhnyasa, hut both are independent of 
each other -the confusion created in this matter by commen¬ 
tators—the clear doctrine of the (lita that the i)ath of Karma- 
Yoga is the bettor of the two—tiro perversions made by the 
commentators belonging to the School of Renunciation--the 
reply to the same—Arjuna cannot be looked upon as Ignorant 
fajnUni), (p. 433) —the reason given in the Gita why Karma- 
Y"oga is superior—from times immemorial, the ccurse of conduct 



XX 


DETAILED CONTENTS OF VOLUME I 


(acaraj has been two-fold, and therefore, useless for determining; 
which is bettei^the three NisthSs according to Janaka and the 
twoNisthSs according to the Oita—it does not follow that Karma 
should be renounced, because it creates a bond ; it is enough if 
one renounces the Hope for Fruit of Action—^it is impossible to 
renounce Karma—if one renounces Karma, one will not get 
even food to eat—even if as a result of Knowledge, there is no 
duty of one’s own to perform, and one’s desires are extinguished, 
one cannot escape Karma—it is, therefore, essential to continue 
Karma desirelessly, even after the Acquisition of Knowledge— 
the illustrations of the Blessed Lord and of Janaka—the 
giving up of the Hope of Fruit of Action—indifference towards 
the world (vairagya) and enthusiasm for Action (p. 455 )— 
Universal Welfare (lokasamgraha) and the nature of it—this 
is the true resolution of the Realisation of the Brahmam 
(brahmajflanaJ —still, this universal welfare must be obtained; 
according to the arrangement of the four castes and desirelessly 
(p. 467)—the path of leading one’s life in four stages, which is- 
described in the Smrti texts—the importance of the state of a. 
householder (grhasthairairui )—the Bhagavata doctrine—the 
original meanings of the word ‘Bhagavata’ and ‘Smarta’—the- 
Gita supports the Karma-Yoga, that is to say, the Bhagavata 
doctrine—the difference between the Karma-Yoga of the Gita 
and the Karma-Yoga of the Mlmaihsa School—the difference 
between Bhagavata Sarhnyasa and Smfirta Samnyasa—points of 
similarity between the two—the ancientness of the Vedic 
Karma-Yoga in the Manu-Smrti and of the Bhagavata 
doctrine—the meaning of the words used in the Gita to show 
the close of a chapter—the wonderfulness of the Gita, and the 
appropriateness of the three parts of the Prasthanatrayh 
(p. 490)—a concise statement in a tabular form showing the 
points of difference and similarity between the Samnyasa 
(Saiiikhya), and Karma-Yoga (Yoga)—the different ways of 
leading one’s life—the doctrine of the Gita that Karma-Yoga 
is the best of all^—hymnsfrom the Isavasyopanisad 
in support of this proposition—a consideration of the 
Samkarabhasya on those hymns—authorities from the Manu 
and other Smrtis in support of the fusion of Knowledge and 
Action ... ... ... ... p. 416-509» 



DETAILED CONTENTS 0¥ VOLUME I 


xxi 


CHAPTER XIL 

SIDDHAVASTHA AND VYAVAHARA. 

(The State of a Perfect, and Worldly Affairs) 

The perfect state of society—in this state, everyone is a 
Steady-in-Mind (sthitaprajfla )—the climax of Morality—the 
Sthitaprajna according to Western Philosophy—the state of a 
-Sthitaprajha, which is beyond laws—the behaviour of the 
Karrna-yogin Sthitaprajna is the climax of Morality—the 
difference between the Morality of a selfish society, and the 
Absolute Ethics in the State of Perfection—the description of the 
best of men according to the DasubodJia—hxit, the immutability 
of Ethical principles is not affected by this difference 
.(p. 526)— on what basis this difference is observed by the 
Sthitaprajna—the welfare or happiness of society, or the benefit 
of all liv ing beings—but Equability of Reason (samya-buddhi) 
is superior to these external considerations—’a comparison of 
the doctrine of Equability of Reason with the theory of ‘ the 
. greatest good of the greatest number ’—living in the world 
with Equability of Reason—-philanthropy and one’s own 
maintenance—Self-Identification (atmaupamya )—the compre¬ 
hensiveness, importance, and logical explanation of that 
doctrine—‘the universe is the family’ (‘vasudliaiva-kutumbakam’) 
t(p. 544)— though one might acquire Equability of Reason, one 
cannot give the go-bye to considerations of who is deserving 
and who not—absence of enmity ( nirvaira ) does not mean 
inactivity, or non-resistance—‘ measure for measure ’—the 
restraint of evil-doers—the justification of patriotism, clan- 
,pride etc.—observing the limits of Time and Place, and Self- 
defence—the duty of the Jnanin (scient)—universal welfare and 
Karma-Yoga—summary of the subject—self-interest, other’s- 
,interest, and the highest interest (paramdrtha) ... p. 510-565 

CHAPTER XIII. 

BHAKTI-MARGA. 

(The Path of Devotion.) 

The difficulty of ordinary persons of small intelligence in 
[Realising the aualitvless form of the Brahman—the means of 







xxii 


DETAILED CONTENTS OF VOLUME I 


acquiring Knowledge, Ueligious Faith (sraddhu) and Reason— 
both these are mutually dependent—the accomplishment of 
practical purposes by Faith—though one may acquire Know¬ 
ledge of the Paramesvara by Faith, that is not enough—in 
order to be able to assimilate that Knowledge, it is necessary 
to contemplate on the Paramesvara with an intense and 
desireless love—this is called DEVOTION—the Contemplation 
of the Qualityful Imperceptible, is laborious and difficult of 
achievement—therefore, it is necessary to have some definite 
object for worship—the Path of Knowledge and the Path of 
Devotion lead to the same goal—nevertheless. Devotion cannot 
become a Nistha like Knowledge—the visible form of the 
Paramesvara, accessible by love, which is taken for Devotion— 
the meaning of the word ‘ pratika '—the meaning of the words 
‘ raju-mdyd ’ and ‘ ruja-guhya ’—the lovingness in the Qlta 
(p. 586)—any one of the innumerable manifestations of the 
Paramesvara can be taken as a symbol (pratilca )—different 
symbols taken by different people and the resulting confu¬ 
sion—how that can be avoided—the difference between the 
symbol {pratika) and the belief with which one worships the 
symbol—whatever the symbol is, the result obtained is 
according to one’s belief about it—worship of different deities 
—but the One who gives the Fruit is the Paramesvara and not 
the deity—whichever deity is worshipped, that becomes an 
informal worship of the Paramesvara—the superiority of the 
Path of Devotion in the Gita from this point of view—the 
purity or impurity of Devotion and Love—improvement takes 
place by gradual degrees, as a result of industry, and perfection 
is reached after many births—that man who has neither Faith 
nor Reason is lost—whether by Reason or by Devotion, the 
knowledge of the same Non-Dual Brahman is obtained (p. 601)—■ 
all the doctrines pertaining to the theory of Causality 
(karma-vipdka-prakriyd) and the Philosophy of the Absolute 
Self, also stand good in the Path of Devotion—Sec, for 
instance, the form of the Personal Self {'jiva'), and of the 
Paramesvara according to the Gita—-nevertheless, there is 
sometimes a verbal difference in these doctrines—for instance, 
Karma now becomes the same as the Paramesvara—dedication 
to the Brahman (brahmdrjmia) and dedication to Krsna 



DETAILED CONTENTS OP VOLUME I 


xxiii 


(kr^^iarpava) —but these verbal differences are not made, if 
confusion results—the fusion of Faith and Spiritual Knowledge 
in the Gita Keligion—there is no room for ‘ Samnyasa ’ in the 
Path of Devotion—there is no conflict between Devotion 
( bhakti ) and Action ( kartau )—devotees of the Blessed Lord 
and Universal Welfare—worship of and sacrifice to the 
Blessed Lord by one’s own Actions only—whereas the Path 
of Knowledge is open to the three re-generate classes, the Path 
of Devotion is open to women and to Siidras etc.—there is 
Release, even if one surrenders oneself to the Paramesvara at 
the time of death—the superiority of the Religion of the Gita 
over otlier religions ... ... ... p. 566-618> 



xxiv CXDNTENTS OF CHAP. XIV, XV & APPENDICES 


DETAILED 

Contents of chapters XIV and XV and of the Appendices, 
which are included in the Second Volume 
of the Book. 

CHAPTER XIV. 

G IT A DH Y AY A-SA MGATl. 

( The Continuity of the chapters of the Gita ). 

Two methods of proving a subject—scientific and catechistic 
—the good and bad aspects of the catechistic method—the 
beginning of the GUa—the first 'chapter—in the second 
chapter, the subject-matter starts with only two Paths of life, 
namely, the Saihkhya and the Yoga—the exposition of Karma- 
Yoga in the third, fourth and fifth chapters—Equability of 
Reason ( aamya-tmddhi ) is better than Karma—it is impossible 
to get rid of Karma—Karma-Yoga is superior to Sarhkhya- 
Nistha—the necessity of the control of all organs in order to 
attain Equability of Reason {mmya-buddhi )—the method of 
control of the organs mentioned in the sixth chapter—it is not 
proper to divide the Gita into the three parts. Action (karma). 
Devotion ( bhakii) and Knowledge (jiluna )—Knowledge and 
Devotion are the means of attaining Equability of Reasoni 
according to the Karma-Yoga—therefore, the Gita cannot be 
divided into three six-chaptered parts, one part for 'tmm,' one 
for ‘tat’ and one for ‘usi ’—the exposition of 'jnana' and 'vijildna' 
is given in chapters VII to XII, for the successful practice of 
Karma-Yoga, and not independently—a summary of chapters 
VII to XII—even in these chapters of the Gita, Devotion and 
Knowledge have not been dealt with independently, but are 
intermingled with each other, and they have been given the 
single n&me'jfldna-vijTlana' —a summary of chapters XIII to 
XVII—the summing up in the eighteenth chapter is in support 
of Karma-Yoga—therefore, considering the introductory and 
final chapters (upakrama-upsamhara) according to rules of the 
Mlmaihsa, Karma-Yoga is seen to be the doctrine propounded 
by the Gltfi—the four-fold goal of human life (purusurtha) — 
'artha' (wealth) and ‘ kama' (Desire) must be consistent with 




CONTENTS OF CHAP. XIV, XV & APPENDICES xxv 


dharnia (Morality)—but Release (mokm^ is not in conflict 
with Morality (dharma )—how the Glt4 came to be explained 
away as supporting Renunciation—Is not Samkhya + Desireless 
Action = Karma-Yoga, to be found in the Gita?—nevertheless 
Karma-Yoga is the doctrine ultimately expounded—prayer to 
■the followers of the Path of Renunciation. 

CHAPTER XV. 

U P A S A M 11 A R A. 

( Resume or Summary ) 

Difference between the science of Karina-Yoga and the 
formulating of rules of Worldly Morality {dcdra-savKjraha )— 
the erroneous idea that Ethics cannot be properly justified by 
Vedanta—Gita does that very thing—the Exposition of the 
religion of the Gita solely from the point of view of Ethics— 
Reason is superior to Karma- the Nakulopakhyana—similar 
theorems in Buddhism and Christianity—comparison of the 
doctrine of Equability of Reason in the Gita, with the two 
Western doctrines of ‘greatest good of the greatest number ’ 
and ‘ Conscience ’—similarity between Western Metaphysics 
and the Exposition in tho Gita—the doctrines of Kant and 
■Green—Vedanta and Ethics—the reason why there are various 
codes of Ethics, and differences of opinion about the construc¬ 
tion of tho Body and the Cosmos—the important part of the 
Metaphysical exposition in the Gita—the harmonising of 
Release ( rnoksti ), Ethics and worldly life—Renunciation 
according to Christianity—tho Western idea of Action based on 
the search for Happiness—comparison of the same with the 
Karma-marga in the Gita- difference between the arrangement 
of the four castes and Ethics—-the Western Karma-marga is 
based on elimination of pain, and the Gita religion is based on 
Desirelessness—a short history of the Karma-Yoga in the 
Kaliyuga—Jain and Buddhist monks—the Sarhnyasin followers 
of Samkaracarya—the Mahoraedan rule—the Devotees of the 
Blessed Lord, the galaxy of saints, and Ramadasa—the living¬ 
ness of the Gita religion—the fearlessness, immutability, and 
-equality of the Gita religion—prayer to the Almighty. 





xxvi CONTENTS OF CHAP. XIV, XV & APPENDICES 


APPENDICES. 

An External Examination of the Gita. 

The Gita has been included in the MahabhSrata for a 
proper reason and at a proper place, it is not spurious nor 
interpolated—^PART I: the useful purpose of the GITA and the 
MAHABHARATA—^the present form of the Gita—the present 
form of the Mahabharata—the seven references in the Maha- 
bharata to the Gita—similar stanzas and similarity of language 
in both—also similarity of meaning—which proves that the 
Gita and the Mahabharata were written by the same author—■ 
PART II: A comparison of the GlTA and the UPANISADS— 
similarity of language and similarity of meaning—the 
Metaphysical Knowledge in the Gita is taken from the 
Upanisads—the theory of Maya (Illusion) in the Upanisads 
and in the Gita—What the Gita contains more than the 
Upanisads—the consistency between the Barhkhya system and 
Vedanta—the worship of the Perceptible or the Path of 
Devotion—but the most important subject is the exposition of 
the Path of Karma-Yoga—the Yoga mentioned in the Gita for 
the control of the organs, the Patahjala Yoga, and the 
Upanisads—PART III;—Which was first in point of time, the 
GITA or the BRAHMA-8UTRAS ?—the clear reference to the 
Brahma-Sutras in the Gita—the repeated reference in the 
Brahma-Sutras to the Gita by the word ‘ Smrti ’—a considera¬ 
tion of the relative chronological position of the two books— 
the Brahma-Sutras are either contemporary with or prior in 
point of time to the present Gita, but not'subsequent—one sound 
reason for the Brahma-Sutras being referred to in the Gita— 
PART IV:—The RISE of the BHAGAVATA DOCTRINE,, 
and the GiTA—the Path of Devotion in the Gita is consistent 
with Vedanta, Sariikhya and Yoga—it is not that the doctrines 
of Vedanta have been subsequently inserted in the Gita— 
the most ancient form of the Vedic religion is pre-eminently 
for Action—'the subsequent growth of Vedanta, Sariikhya, and 
Renunciation—the harmonisation of the two Paths of life had 
been arrived at already in ancient times—the subsequent 
growth of Devotion—the consequent necessity for making 
Devotion consistent, from its very inception, with the former 
paths of life—that is the trend of the Bhagavata rfiostrine, and 



CONTENTS OF CHAP. XIV, XV & APPENDICES xxvii 


also of the Gita—the combination of Spiritual Knowledge with 
Action in the-Glta is from the Hpanisads, but there is the addi¬ 
tion of Devotion—the ancient treatises on the Bhagavata doctrine, 
the Gita and the Narayaniyopakhyana—the date of Sri Krena 
and of the growth of the Satvata or Bhagavata religion is the 
same—that time, is about 700 to 800 years before Buddha, or 
about 15(»0 years before Christ—the reasons for thinking so— 
the impossible position arising out of a different conclusion— 
the origiii.il aspect of the Bhagavata religion supports Inaction— 
the next aspect is Devotional—and the final aspect is for 
Qualified Monism ( Visistadvaita )—the original Gita is 
about 900 years before Christ—PART V:—THE DATE OF 
THE PRESENT GITA—the date of the present Gita is the 
same as of the present Mahabharata—out of those, the present 
Mahabharata is prior in point of time to Bliasa, Asvaghosa 
Asvalayana, Alexander, and the method of starting the year 
with the Sun in Aries (Mesa), but subsequent to Buddha 5 
so it is about 500 years prior to the Saka era—the 
present Gita is prior in point of time to Kalidasa, 
Banabhat’a, the dramatist Bhasa, the Puranas, Baudhayana, 
and the Mahay ana sect in Buddhism, that is, about 500 years 
before the Saka era—PART VI: GITA and the BUDDHIST 
LITERATURE—the similarity between the description of the 
‘ Sthitaprajna ’ in the Gita and the ‘ Arhata ’ of Buddhism— 
the nature of the Buddhist religion, and its growth out of the 
previous Brahmin religion—Buddha has discarded the doctrine 
of the Atman in the Upanisads, and has adopted only a course 
of conduct consistent with Renunciation (riirrih')-the visible 
reasons for this Path of life according to the Buddhist religion, 
or the four m-ya truths—the similarity between the Vodic SmSrta 
religion, and the duties of a householder according to 
Buddhism—all these ideas are originally from the Vedic 
religion—the reason, nevertheless, for considering the Maha¬ 
bharata and the Gita independently—the improbability of the 
subsequent Devotional Buddhist religion having been evolved 
out of the original Renunciatory Buddhist religion, which 
denied the existence of the Atman—the growth of the Maha- 
yana Sect—reasons for concluding that the Path of Devotion 
based on Action (pravrffi) in the Mahayana creed has been. 




xxviii CONTENTS OF CHAP. XIV, XV & APPENDICES 


adopted from the Qlta, and the consequent conclusion as to the 
date of the Gita—PART VII QlTA and the CHRISTIAN 
BIBLE—the improbability of the Gita having adopted any 
principle from the Christian religion—the Christian religion 
is not a gradual and independent development out of the 
Jewish religion—opinions of old Christian scholars as to how 
it came into existence—the Esin sect and Greek philosophy— 
the astonishing similarity between the Buddhist and Christian 
religions—but the priority in point of time of the Buddhist 
religion is undoubted—evidence in support of the fact that the 
Buddhist monks ( ijaHn ) had entered Jewish territory in 
ancient times—the high probability, therefore, of the 
elementary principles of Christianity having been adopted from 
Buddhism, and consequently from the Vedlc religion or from 
the Gita—the resulting irresistible conclusion as to the 
undoubted antiquity of the Gita. 




ABBREVIATIONS 


xxix: 


Explanation of the Abbreviations used in the GitS- 
Rahasya, and information about the treatises 
referred to by the Abbreviations. 

-: o: :o:- 

Note :—These are not in the same order as in the original, 
as they have been re-arranged according to the English 
Alphabet, whereas in the original, they are arranged according 
to the Marathi Alphabet—Trans.). 

Ai. Bra. Aitai-eya Brahrnana-, panciica iind khanja, (Dr. Honda’s 
Edition). 

Ai. or 1 A.itareyopanisad ; chapter, khandn and stanza ( Ananda- 
Ai. U. J sraraa Edition ). 

Asta. Ai>fiivakragUa\ chapter and stanza, ( GUa-Sumjraha 
published by Messrs Ashtekar «& Co, ) 

Atharva. Atharvaveda ; the figures after this show respectively, 
the kdtiLda, the sUkla, and the rca. 

Bhag. Srhnad Bhagavatapuraga, (Nirnaya-Sagara Edition). 

Bha. Jyo. Bharatiya Jyofih Rdstra ( Written by the late 
Balkrishna Dikshit). 

Br. or 1 Bfhaddraxtyakopaniitat ; adhydya, brahmaiia and mantra 
Brha. j ( Anandasrama Edition). The usual reference is to the 
Kanvapatha, but in one place, there is a reference to 
the Madhyandina-sakhS. 

Bra. Su. See. Ve. Sti. below. 

Chan. Chandogyopanisai; chapter, A/wwia and mantra. (Anan- 
dasrama Edition). 

Da. or \ The Bdsabudha of Sri Samartha ( Edition of the 
DSsa. J Satkaryottejaka Sabha, Dhulia ). 

Ga. Tukararaa’s Odthd (Damodar Savlarama’s Edition, 1900), 

Gl. Bhagavadgilu, chapter and stanza ; Gl. Sam. Bha.; Gita 
Sdmkarabhdsya. Gita. Rfi. Bha , Gita Rdmdnujahhdsya. 
The Anandasrama Edition of the Gita and of the 
Sahikarabha.'tya contains at the end a glossary, which I 
have found very useful; and I am very grateful for it 
to the compiler. The RdvidnujahhaRya is the one 
printed in the Venkatesvara Press; The Madhva- 
bhasya is the one printed by Krishnacharya of Kumbha- 
konam; The Anmidagiri Commentary, and the 
raramarlha-prapd, are those printed in the Jagadhi- 



XXI 


ABBREVIATIONS 


tecchu Press; the Madhusudana Commentary is the 
one printed in the Native Opinion Press ; the Sridhari 
and Vamani (Marathi) Commentaries are those printed 
in the Nirnayasagara Press; the Paisdcabhd^a is the 
one printed in the Anandasrama Press; the TatvadipikU 
of the Vallabha school is the one printed in the Guzarati 
Printing Press; the Nilakanthl is from the Bombay 
Mahabharata ; and the Bmhmdnandl is the one printed 
in Madras; these are the commentaries of which I 
have made use. But, as the Guzarati Printing Press 
has recently published together in one volume all 
these commentaries except the Paisdcahha^a and the 
.Brahamdnandi, as also the commentary of the 
NimbSfka School and some other commentaries, in all 
fifteen, that one volume is now sufficient for all needs. 

Glt^Ra*^^ } The first essay of this book. 

Hari. Harivamsa ; parva, chapter and stanza (Bombay Edition). 

Isa. Isavasyopanisat. (Anandasrama Edition). 

Jai. Su. The Mmamsd-Sviras of Jaimini; chapter, pdda, and 
sutra. (Calcutta Edition). 

-Jna. JMnesvari with translation; Indira Press Edition. 

Ka. or 1 Kathojanimt', valB and mantra (Anandasrama 

Katha. J Edition). 

Kai. Kaivalyomnisat ; kkandu and mantra ; Twenty-eight 
Upanisads (Nirnaya-Sagara Edition). 

Kausi. Kausitakyupanisat or Kausilaki Brdhmanopanisat ; 

chapter and khanda ; sometimes the first chapter of 
this Upanisad is referred to as the third chapter 
according to the order of the Brahmanas; (Ananda¬ 
srama Edition). 

Kena. Kenopanisat ( = Talavakaropanimt ), khanda and mantra 
(Anandasrama Edition). 

Ma. Bha. Sriman Mahabharata. The following letter shows the 
various Parvas, and the numbers are of the chapters 
and the stanzas. I have everywhere used the Sanskrit 
Edition published at Calcutta by Babu Pratapchandra 
Roy. If the same stanzas have to be referred to in 
the Bombay edition, they will be found a little in 
advance or behind. 



ABBREVIATIONS 


XXXI 


Maitryu. Maitryupanimt or Mailrayanynpaisat ; jmipapiuka and 
manlra (Anandaarama Edition). 

Manu. MaiuiSmrti, chapter and stanza. (Dr, Jolly’s Edition ; 

but in the Mandalik's or in any other edition, these 
stanzas will mostly be found in the same places ; the 
commentaries on Mann are from the Mandalik 
edition). 

Matsya. Matsya-PurZimi (Anandasrama Edition). 

Mi. Pra. MUinda Prasna, Pali text, Englisli translation. 
(Sacred Books of the East Series). 

Mun. or \ Maridakojxmimt: mundaka, kharida and mantra 

Munda. J (Anandasrama Edition ). 

Nar. Pah. Vdriuki Pancaratra, (Calcutta editiozi). 

Na. Su. NUrada-SUtra.'i ( Bombay edition). 

Nrsimha. E. N'rMmhntlara tupaniyopnuiml. 

Pahca. Pancadasi with commentary (Nirnaya-Sagara Edition). 

.Patahjala*Sa. Pdtanjala-Yoija-Sniras. (Tukarama Tatya’s 
Edition). 

Prasna, Prasnopanisat; prasm and mantra. (Anandasrama 
Edition). 

Bg. Py-veda ; mandala, sTikta, and rcU. 

Ramapu. lldmiipurvatapinyupaniivit (Anandasrama Edition). 

S. B. E. SacrMi Hooks of the Past Heries. 

Sam. Ka. Sdmkhya Kdrikd (Tukarama Tatya’s Edition). 

San. Su. Sdndilya-Hatras (Bombay Edition). 

Siva. Hira-i/ifa ; chapter and stanza; G’Ud-Samgraha of 
Messrs Ashtekar & Co., 

Surya. Gi. HUrya-GitU ; chapter and stanza, (Madras Edition). 

Sve. S'uetas'Kitaropani.sat chapter and manira (Anandasrama 
Edition). 

Tai. or I Taittirlya Upanisat; valli, aniivdka, and mantra 

Tai. IJ. J (Anandasrama Edition). 

Tai. Bra, Tailtirlija Prahmana- kanda, prapdUiuka, anuvdka 
and mantra (Anandasrama Edition). 

Tai. Sam. Taittir'uja Samhitd ; kanda, prapdthaka, anuvdka and 
mantra. 

Taka. Ga. Tukarama’s Gdthd .; See Ga. above. 

Vaja. Sam. Vujusaneyi Si/hhitd; chapter and mantra (Bebar 
Edition). 




xxxii 


ABBREVIATIONS 


V&lmiki Ra, or I Valmiki Ramayaria; kanda, chapter and' 
Va. Ra. J stanza (Bombay Edition). 

Ve. Su. Veddnia-Sutras or Brahma-Sutras; chapter, pdda, and 
sutra. 

Ve. Su. Sam. Bha. Sdmkarabhasya on the Vedanta-Sutraa ; the- 
Anandasrama Edition has been used everywhere. 

Visnu. Visriu-Purdria ; a>hsa, chapter, and stanza (Bombay 
Edition). 

Yajha. Ydjflavalkya-Smrti; chapter and stanza (Bombay 
Edition); I have in one or two places referred to the 
Apardrka commentary (Bombay Edition) on this. 

Yo. or) Yoga-Vasistha-, chapter, mrga, and stanza. There 
Yoga. J are two sub-divisions, Pu. (purvdrdha) and 

U. ( uttarardha) of the sixth chapter (Commentated' 
Nirnaya-Sagara Edition).- 

Note :—Besides these, there are many Sanskrit, English, 
Marathi, and Pali treatises, which have been mentioned in¬ 
various places; but as a general rule, the names of those books 
have been given in full, wherever they occur, or they have 
been mentioned in such a way as to be easily intelligible; 
and they have, therefore, not been mentioned in the above list. 




PROMINENT PERSONALITIES ON THE OITA 

M r. tilak, and the GITA-EAHASYA. 

( Conlinuei) from p. xxiii of Vol. I), 

(8) STIRIMANT BALASAHEB PANT PRATINIDHI, 
RAJA SAHEB OK AUNDH. 

The Bhagvadgeota has been regarded from time immemorial 
as one of the three praftlJurms or the status hooks of Indian 
philosophy, and is commented on in their own way by eminent 
Aoharyas like the groat Hhankara, Ramanuja, Nimbarka, 
Madhva, Vallabha, and others, each of whom, however, being 
the pioneer of an independent school of philosophy, twisted the 
import of this great book in such a' way as to make it in 
conformity with his own system. The illustrious Dnyaneshwar 
wrote his first treatise on this book in Marathi and the Geeta- 
Rahasya of the late Lokmanya Tilak is its only befitting 
successor. 'J’he author of the Dnyaneshwari had prominently 
in his view its devotional aspect, which he naturally emphasised 
in his work; but, as the author of the Geeta-Rahasya rightly 
points out, tho “ Goeta ” is neither a book of knowledge nor of 
devotion nor of action : but rather a harmonious combination of 
them all. Geeta-Rahasya can thus be said to be the jnost 
honest and impartial commentary on tho book. 

The work of translating such a book into English was by 
no means easy for Solicitor Sukthankar; and he too ought to 
have realised it at the time of undertaking tliis job. His 
responsibility was twofold: to make tlie translation 
intelligible, and at the .same time not to cause any damage to 
the original; and judging from tho translation that we have in 
hand, he can he very well said to have carried out his work 
most satisfactorily. We wont through almost all the portion 
of tho translation and found it to be quite interesting and 
intelligible without the help of tho original. That the 
translation is most strictly faithful to the text only shows his 
self-control and unbiassed bent of mind, which a true translator 
ought to have. To make the translation worthy of the original. 
Solicitor Sukthankar seems to have spared no pains. 

V—vi* 



xxxiv PROMINENT PERSONALITIES ON THE GITA etc. 


Geeta-Rahasya, apart from being one of the greatest 
philosophical treatises in Marathi, is the crown-work of the late 
Lokamanya; and was badly in need of such a translation for 
becoming known to the world at large. The Geeta-Rahasya 
being an indicator to its writer’s philosophy of life, the 
translation will not only help the world to judge the writer and 
realise the value of his original work, but will also help it to 
understand the real meaning of the Geeta itself and make it 
aware of him as a master-intellect that everybody can be proud 
of. We must all be very grateful to Solicitor Sukthankar 
for his commendable work of translation, and hope him every 
due and well deserved reward for his efforts. 


(9) THE HON’BLE MR. JUSTICE FAIZ B. TYABJI, 

High Court, Bombay. 

It is a sincere pleasure to me to hear that Lokmanya 
Tilak’s scholarly works are being rendered available in 
English, The Gita has been frequently translated into English 
though it is not surprising that scholars are not altogether 
satisfied with the renderings that have so far been published. 
A work giving a really spiritual interpretation of this inspiring 
work must supply an urgent need of the young men and 
women of to-day. The danger of being cut off from what is 
considered religion requires particular attention in these days. 
The danger is the more serious, as our young men are apt to 
fear that their spiritual needs cannot be met from texts that 
are the foundations of religion. The great religions, it is true, 
have had their foundations in the East. But, it is thought that 
their interpretation, so as to adopt them to the needs of to-day, 
must be sought from the West. To turn, therefore, to the most 
spiritual expressions of our own religious teachers, as inter¬ 
preted by the modern teachers in the East, is an extremely 
necessary part of the educational experiences through which we 
should all pass. To men of ripe experience, it must be a 
peculiar satisfaction to have such a work available. I am 
looking forward with keen interest to this publication. 






PROMIN ENT PERSONALITIES ON THE GlTA ETC. xxxv 


(10) SIR MOHAMMAD IQBAL. 

I have always held the Bhagavad-Gita in the highest 
-'admiration 

(11) SRI MEHER BABA, 

The Bhagavad-Gita has exerted a tremendous spiritual 
influence on humanity at large. As the Blessed Ijord Sri Krishna 
■was born a Hindu, the Gita is more often than never regarded 
as a sacred book of the Hindus ; but really speaking, it is a 
sacred book of not merely the Hindus but of the entire human 
race. The message that it contains was meant not merely for 
India, but t’or the whole world. Let mankind act in accordance 
with its message, and the universal brotherhood will surely be 
automatically brought about. 

Those who cast doubts on the perfect sainthood of Shri 
Krishna, know not what they are doing. He was certainly a 
God-incarnate ; and because He was a Sadguru, a Perfect 
Saint, Ho was successful in inundating the world with 
spirituality and lofty spiritual teachings. 


(12) Rao Bahadur Vidvatkulafekhara 0. V. VAIDYA, MA.,LL.B, 
THE AGE OF THE GITA AND GITA-JAYANTI, 

I propose to place my views on the “ Age of the Gita ” as 
succinctly as possible. When was this unique work composed, 
is the question which naturally arises in every mind. 

The Gita itself pui-ports to state that it was taught by 
Lord Sri Krsna to Arjuna, hero of the Mahabharata War, on the 
field of battle, before the fight commenced, but when the fighters 
were actually facing each other, ready to commence the fight. 
It follows, therefore, that the date of the Gita is the date of the 
commencement of the Bharata fight. This date is the subject of 
dispute between European scholars, followed by some Indian 
scholars, and myself. I hold that the date assigned to the fight 
by all ancient Indian writers, especially astronomers, is the 
correct one, viz. Margaslrsa Suddha 13, Pre-Saka 3180 
(3102 B. C.). I will not enter into the details of the controversy 
here, but merely indicate my grounds. 



xxxvi PROMINENT PERSONALITIES ON THE GITA ETC; 


The Bharata heroes are referred to i7i the ‘Satapatha. 
Brahmuna and the date of this Brahmana has been fixed by 
Shankar Balkrishna Dikshit, a great modern Indian, 
astronomical researcher, at about 3,000 B. C. from the 
astronomical statement in it that the Krttikas rise exactly in 
the East. Attempt has lately been made by Winternitz to 
dislodge this date by suggesting that the statement (tfrrT ^ 

in the ‘ Satapatha ’ means only that 
the Krttikas come on the East line, and not that they rise in the 
East. But this rendering is negatived by the very next sentence 
‘ all other stars deviate from the East ’ (tnrPT 
■ 0 ( 4 in the ‘ Satapatha as shown by me in detail in an 
article published in the Bhandarkar Re.soarch Institute Journal. 
If, then, Pariksit and others, mentioned in the ‘ Satapatha ’ of 
3,000 B. C, as recent kings, are taken to be the grandson and 
great-grandsons of Arjuna, the date of the fight, viz. one year 
before the commenooinent of the Kali ago, given by all 
Indian astronomers, or 3102 B. 0., is perfectly borne out by the 
‘Satapatha’ statement. European scholars, and some Indian 
scholars, too, place the fight about 1400 B. 0. on the strength 
ot the pedigrees of king.s given in Puranas from the Nine 
Nandas to Brhadratha, son of Jarasandha. The evidence of 
the Puranas, however, has no value when compared with the 
evidence of the ‘Satpatha*. Indeed, Purana genealogies are 
not reliable, particularly for ancient dynasties, especially as 
they are contradicted by the evidence of Megasthenes, recorded 
about 320 B. C., as shown by me in detail in “ Mahabharata- 
Mimaihsa”, a Hindi work. This short summary of the con¬ 
troversy will show to the reader that the year of the Bharata 
fight must be taken to be 3102 B. C. 

With regard to the exact day of the fight, there is also 
a controversy. But the difference is only of two days. The 
Gita-Jayanti day is MargasTrsa Buddha 11, ‘EkadaM’ day; 
but the statement in the Mahabharata and the course of the 
fight as described therein lead to no other day than iuddlui 13, 
and this is the date accepted by old writers and commentators 
of the Mahabharata. They have consented* to hold the Jayanti 
for 3 days continually, viz., from Ekadasi to Trayodasi. 




TEOMINENT PERSONALITIES ON THE GITAeTC. xxxvii 


To speak in English dates, the Mahabharata fight commenced 
in December 3102 B. C., and the ‘ Gita ’ was preached on 
the morning of that day. 

Having placed before the reader the day by data and year 
•on which the doctrines of the ‘Gita’ were preached by Sri Krsna, 
we go on to state that this cannot bo the date of the ‘Gita’ as 
it is before us. For the first chapter, etc., cannot have belonged 
to the teaching, a:; it was actually given. The whole story 
is told afterward.s liy some one, and that is Vya.sa undoubtedly. 
As the teaching of Christ is given in several books of the 
New Testanient written by St. John and others, so Vyasa 
may be taken to be the writer who first recorded this teaching 
in a work to be studied and recited. When this was written 
by Vyasa cannot be definitely stated. Ho must, however, 
have done it within a few years of the fight, and we may 
roughly say that the date of the original ‘ Gita ’ is somewhere 
about 3100 B. 0. 

But it is clear that the work as it is before us is not exactly 
that of Vyasa. We know for certain that the original work of 
Vyasa, called ‘Jaya’ or Victory (?r3r srcft 

was twice recast or further expanded, once by Vaisam- 
payana, who rtdated ‘ Bharata ’ to Janamejaya, and again by 
Sauti, who related it to Saunaka and other Brahmins in 
Naimisaranya. This work has three names, viz. ‘Jaya’, 
‘ Bharata ’, and ‘ Mahabharata ’, and the extent of the ‘Bharata’, 
of Vaisampiiyaiia is also given as 24,000 Hokas, w'hilo that of 
the Mdhabharata is, as is well-known, one lakh of verses. The 
original of the ‘Gita’, no doubt, belonged to the ‘Jaya’ 
(Victory) of Vyftsa ; but the work as it is before us belongs, in 
our opinion, most certainly, to the ‘ Bharata’ of Vaisampayana, 
and not to the Mahabharata of Sauti. The arguments for this 
view are given at length in the last chapter of Mahabharata- 
Mimarhsa ; but it may hero be stated briefly that the greatness 
of this work is described even in the Mahabharata itself, 
wherein it is related that Arjuna again asked Sri Krsna 
to teach him what was taught on the battlefield. But Sri 
Krsna answered : “ What I told you then, being in the recpiired 
Vogic mood (»t 1»T5%5T %fT9T), I cannot toll you again. I will 




xxxviii PROMINENT PERSONALITIES ON THE GiTA ETC. 


tell you, however, another episode”. And thus the ‘ Anugita ’ 
s introduced in the Maliabhurata, Then, again, the versos in 
the ' Gita ’ are constantly repeated in the Mahabharata through¬ 
out its length as of some authoritative work. It is hence 
certain that the ‘ Gita ’ does not belong to the Mahabharata of 
Sauti hut it belongs to the ‘ Bharata ’ of Vaisampayana. The 
date of the former is conceded to be about 250 B. C. as shown 
at length in ‘‘ Mahabharata-Mimaihsa ” (Chapter I); but the 
date of Vaisampayana’s ‘ Bharata ’ cannot be indubitably 
fixed, and hence the date of the ‘ G ita ’, as it is to-day, is 
uncertain. 

But, there are various arguments which point to 1400 B. C. 
speaking roughly in centuries, as the probable age of the ‘ Gita ’. 
In the first place the language of the ‘Gita’ strikes one as a 
spoken language and not classical Sanskrit of the time when it 
was dead and spoken only by Pandits. We know that Buddha 
preached his new religion to the people in Pali, a Prakrit; and 
hence it is certain that in his time Sanskrit was dead as a 
spoken language of the common people. The ‘ Gita ’, therefore, 
precedes Buddha of 500 B. C. Again, there is no reference to 
Buddhism in the ‘ Git-Tthough there are many references to 
the doctrines of Buddhism in the ' Mahabharata ’. Some people 
think that in Chapter there is a reference to Buddhist 

tenets in the description of the Asuri character. But this is a 
description of Atheists. For Buddhism is in favour of 
Renunciation, and not the enjoyment of the world. On the 
other hand, there is not the least doubt that ‘ Gita ’ is post- 
Upanisadic. The doctrine of Renunciation was first preached 
by the ‘ Brhadaranyaka ’, and it 5 )ervade 8 the spirit of all the 
thirteen old Upanisads. It is clear the ‘ Gita ’ is not for 
Renunciation. Indeed, Arjuna is actuated by that spirit when 
he asks the first and subsequent question in the Gita and Sri 
Krsna sums His preaching in the pithy verse 

I q^!=!mrrfqs*PTmt u Gi. 5. 2.). This 

is wrongly interpreted by those who believe that the object of 
the ‘ Gita ’ is to preach ‘ Saihnyasa ’. Lokamanya Tilak has 
pointed out its true import, which is also the natural one. As 
the " Maitrayaniya Upanisad” must be dated 1900 B. G,. 




PROMI?^ENT PERSONALITIES ON THE GITA ETC. xxxix 


roughly, as-; shown by Tilak from an astronomical statement in 
it, the ‘ Gita ’ must be placed between 1900 B. C. and 500 B. C- 
This is a wide range, no doubt; but it supplies one with limits, 
which are certain and unassailable. 

There are a few arguments which will give us a more 
definite approximation to the probable date. It has been rightly 
shown by some scholars that the ‘ Gita ’ is not only pre- 
Buddhistic but pre-Paninlan. Many forms in it are against 
Panini’s rides. More interesting still is (nTHTHf rrnfkfrrl-Sfn ) as 
the month names are modern and not Vedic names, new names 
being introduced about 2,000 B. C. according to Shanker 
Balkrishna Dikshit, But, according to Vedahga Jyotisa, the 
first monta is Magha, and hence the ‘ Gita ’ seems to be prior 
to the ‘ Ved.ahga Jyotisa ’ also, the date of which is about 1190 
B. C. even according to the calculation of Archbishop Pratt, 
who worked the date out for Max Muller. Dikshit takes its date 
to be about MOO B. C. It may thus be taken without much 
difficulty that 1400 13. C. is the proliable date of the OUa. 

Another sentence furnishes a further argument in favour of 
this date. It may be accepted that Sri Krsna was already 
considered a divine being, indeed as an incarnation of the Highest 
Deity at the time of the Gita.; but not probably Arjuna. Yet, 
when Sri Krsna says (‘ TTUl-grRr ), he 

lays the loundation of Arjuna-worship. From Panini’s Sutra 
( ‘ ’), we are sure that during Panini’s time both 

Vasudeva and Arjuna were worshipped, though Arjuna lost his 
position later on. Gita is therefore pre-Paninian undoubtedly. 
If we take the date of Panin! to be about 800 B. C., as most 
Indians Scholars do, though Europeans scholars place him about 
300 B. C., we may take, the Gita to about 1200 B. C. or at least 
to 1,000 B. C. When we further remember that Sri Krsna 
identifies Himself with Margaslrsa as being the first of months, 
as in other things, we can take the Gita still further back, i. e., 
about 1,400 B. C., before the latest possible date for Vedahga 
Jyotisa. 

The exact age of the Gita is, no doubt difficult to 
determine for want of detailed knowledge of the political, 
social and religious history of India, before Buddha. The 



xl PEOMINENT PERSONALITIES ON THE GITA ETC. 


doctrine of Ahiihsa is preached no doubt in the Gita. But it is 
not the doctrine of Buddha. It had already been preached by the 
Upanisads (Chandogya), and the 
Gita keeps to it. Hirhsa in sacrifice is not Hirhsa as Hindus 
then believed. Buddha prohibited it altogether. This religious 
question is not at the root of the teaching of the Gita. The 
question which was agitating Arjuna was wholly a moral one ; 
and related, not to the slaughter of animals in sacrifices to God 
but to the slaughter of men in battle, slaughter of even relatives 
even in a just war. The question was only a moral or a political 
one no doubt; but in India all (juestions are only a part of the 
great question : what is the duty of man in this life both from 
tlie worldly point of view and the view of the highest goal of 
human existence ? It was hence necessary that the question 
should bo discussed fully from these points of view and the 
Bhagavad-Glta discusses it so thoroughly from all sides and in 
such a simple yet eloquent manner, in language so deep and 
meaningful, that the Gita will always remain at the head of 
religious, philosophical and moral treatises. The answer of 
Sri Krsna to the vital question which is at the root of the Gita 
is remarakable. The view is summed up at the end in the verse: 

(Extract from Mr. C. V. Vaidya’s article in the 
Kalyan Kalpataru, Gita Number, 1935. 

Gita Press, Gorakhpur, INDIA.) 


(13) MR8. SOPHIA WADIA. 

GITA-JAYANTI. 

It is computed that Moksada Ekadasi—-the eleventh day of 
Marga-Sirsa, which is auspicious to those seeking spiritual 
realization—was the day when Sri Krisna began to deliver on 
the field of duty His Sermon to the mentally confused Arjuna. 
Therefore that day is regarded as the birth-day of the Gita. Very 
many Hindus celebrate this day—Gita-Jayanti. The Bhagavad- 
gita is reverenced as the song of life, and its reciters and 



PROMINENT PERSONALITIES ON THE GITA ETC. xli 


.readers are said to attain fortune, victory, prosperity and 
righteousness. That its doctrines emancipate the human soul 
and enlighten it with Wisdom and Peace is a well-recognized 
fact. 

The message of the Gita has a universal appeal. Its 
teachings are fundamentally psychological and practical; they 
are addressed to man, the thinker, from whom no blind belief in 
them is demanded, but whose reason is kindled into conviction. 
The Git£i is a drama; its characters are human passions and 
principles in Nature personified. Its historical back-ground 
and martial ‘ melange ’ have misled some, but more and more is 
it being recognized that the Gita symbolizes the eternal 
struggle between the material and the spiritual in every human 
being. .A.ny thinking individual is capable of recognizing that 
the story of the Gita is the story of life. The more one listens 
to the Song of life, the more one realizes that it is the song of 
his own life. Thus the Gita is understood by each thinking 
soul in bis own way, according to his own stage in evolution. 
To each the Gita offers the solution of his own problems, Thus 
any deluded mortal of any community using the lessons taught 
can become enlightened and immortaL 

The Gita has not only universal appeal; its influence is 
universalizing. It may be regarded as the book of democracy ; 
it teaches that Spirit is the seed of ail, and in the hearts of all 
beings It is rooted. The pure democratic doctrines of the Gita 
do not advocate any juocess of levelling down all human beings 
to an equality in material things ; they advocate the realization 
of an existing unity in Spirit, Which manifests as harmony in 
diversities. The socialism of the Gita is founded on the maxim 
of 7iMesse oblige and the method of attaining it is by the 
unfoldment of nobility at every stage and in every station of 
life. The social philosophy of the Gita recognises the divisions 
and differences of the human kingdom, and it does not attempt 
■the impossible task of doing away with or ignoring them; it 
teaches their meaning and purpose, and reveals that they are 
but the results of the natural processes of evolution. Thus, for 
example, the Gita does not say that castes and classes are 
useless and should be destroyed; it explains Varnas or castes 



xlii PROMINENT PERSONALITIES ON the GiTA ETC. 


from the point of view of the soul; they are expressions of 
varying qualities of the evolving human consciousness. By 
merit and merit alone a man is of high or low caste or class, and 
birth, family, religion or wealth do not determine the soul’s 
station in life; its own qualities bespeak its stage of evolution. 
By self-control and self-effort any sinner can become pure. 

The inspiration of the Gita produces a series of progressive 
awakenings, but all of them result in reliance on the Self 
within, which is perceived as the Inner Ruler. No prophet, no 
priest can save that Self ; no king, no emperor can have power 
over it. It is its own saviour and holds sway over its own 
kingdom of the mind, its t)wn empire of the heart. Thus the 
Gita destroys priest-made orthodoxy and sectarianism, but does 
not leave the man barren and lonely ; for it brings to him the 
companionship of the Sage and the Prophet. It illuminates for 
the Muslims his Koran, for the Parsi his Avesta, for the 
Christian his Bible. These are no more regarded as infallible 
books, but as avenues leading to the understanding and 
appreciation of their great recorders. For example, the teaching 
about Sraddha will purify and deepen the faith of the Muslims ; 
the amstorities and mortifications of body, speech, and mind, will 
make the Zoroastrian more enlightened about the triad of good 
deeds, good words, and good thoughts, which ho reveres; the 
Sikli’s martial ardour, the Jain’s gentleness, will become more 
elevated qualities; the Christian will learn why ordinarily he 
is not able to live up to the Sermon on the Mount, and by 
what stages he can reach the position where he will be able 
to do BO; and so on. That which is the force of evil in every 
religion will weaken, and the unifying spirit of true religion 
will become more and more manifest. 

The principle of democracy, in which each grade of 
intelligence has its duties to discharge, contributes substantially 
to the unfoldment of the quality of self-reliance. The philo¬ 
sophy of the Gita is the philosophy of responsibility to neigh¬ 
bour and stranger, to country and race, to the whole of nature, 
visible and invisible; its practice resolves itself into the 
Religion of Duty. The performance of duties requires a discern- 




PROMINENT PERSONALITIES ON THE GITA ETC. xliii 

ment of what are not our duties; otherwise like Arjuna, we ■ 
shall want to run away from our real duty, thinking that it 
consists in giving way to the enemy within and making peace 
with the wrong-doer in the world. The Gita has a unifying 
force; that power can bind men and women of different religions 
into a single whole; for, he who practises self-control, who 
attempts purification of his own thoughts, words and deeds, who 
endeavours to live his days and years in an enlightened 
manner, comes in unison and harmony, unconsciously to himself, 
with all others who are engaged in the same task. 

To make the celebration of “Gita-Jayanti” an institution, 
we must first restore the book to its original position, from 
which it has fallen to assume a sectarian character. It is not 
a religious code but a spiritual poem ; its teachings, both meta¬ 
physical and ethical, have naught to do with religious rites,, 
priests or temples; it is not other-worldly—it deals with the 
problems of life in this world. Its message is clear, its langu¬ 
age is simple, and no man needs an intermediary to approach 
it or to appreciate it. It is not fragmentary and there are no 
lacunae to be filled up by some expounder or by some study of 
other tests. It itself is perfectly rounded olf; in itself it is 
complete. It grades off gently to depth after depth in the 
mighty ocean of wisdom. It rises tier over tier like an awe¬ 
inspiring mountain. Any man, any woman, in the East as in 
the West, can find his or her own place in its scheme, the very 
next step to be taken by him, the way to take that step, and the 
way to keep on progressing. 

The right approach to the Gita consists in having our mind 
fresh to penetrate its verses. The effect is magical. 

(Extract from Mrs. Sofia Wadia’s article in the Kalyan 
Kalpa-Taru, Gita Number 1935, Gita Press, Gorakhapur, 
INDIA). 




TRANSLATOR’S FOREWORD. 


It is with a feeling of relief, and of satisfaction at having 
discharged my duty ( kartavija ), that I am laying down the 
, pen on the last line of the translation of the Gita-Rahasya. 

In completing this volume, I have adhered to the General 
Rules of Translation printed at page xxxix of Volume I, 
which I have re-printed at pp. vii-viii of this Volume for 
the convenience of the readers. Notwithstanding the suggestion 
made in some of the reviews of Volume I of this translationt 
that a free rendering of the text would appeal more to the 
public, I have followed the standard rule of translation, namely* 
of faithfulness to the text, with due regard to the idiom of 
the language into which the text is translated; because, my 
aim has not been to give the public what they would like 
to have, but what they ought to, and are entitled to have. 

The generality of the reviewers of Volume I have not, 
I am glad to feel, attacked the philosophy of the author or 
his conclusions as to the Path of Life preached by the Bhagavad- 
gita. And I have been much encouraged in the preparation 
of this Volume by the approoiatory and heartening reception, 
which has been accorded to Volume I, 

It would be outside the scope of my commission to express 
any opinion in this Foreword on the conclusions of Author 
regarding the Message of the Gita. 

In spite of scrupulous care taken in going over the proofs, 
some mistakes have inevitably crept in; but they are so patent, 
that I have not considered it necessary to add a list of errata 
and corrigenda. 

Part II of the Index of Definitions (Terminologi(;al Express¬ 
ions), has been compiled by -me by way of cross-reference 
to Part I; and it is hoped that it will servo the purpose of 
those of my readers, who know the Terminological Expressions 
only in English, and cannot understand them in Sanskrit* 

• For the education, however, of these readers, I have added 



TEANSLATOR’S FOREWORD 


xlv 


after the English word, the actual Sanskrit terminological’ 
expression for which it stands in the translation, wherever 
I have considered that necessary. 

In concluding, I wish to express my sincere appreciation 
of the trouble taken by the Bombay Vaibhava Press in putting 
the Second Volume through the Press with the greatest possible 
speed, which was consistent with the correct printing of the 
copy; and of the consistent courtesy shown and the ungrudging 
help given to mo in the matter of proofs and of carrying out 
the corrections. 

1 am glad to see that this Volume is going to he published 
on the auspicious Rama-Navami day, which happens, incident¬ 
ally, to be the birth-day of the Publisher Mr. R. B. Tilak. 




Maha-Shivaratri, 
22nd February, 1936. 


B. S. .ST.i'KTHANKAR. 



CONTENTS OF VOLUME II. 

(GENERAL) 

Subject. 

Title-page 

Various vernacular editions of the GJta-Rahasya 
Works of the late Lokamanya B. G. Tilak 
General Rules regarding the translation 
Scheme of transliteration 

Number of stansjas in the Gita, and to whom 
attributed ... 

Explanation of pictorial map of schools of 
philosophy 

Detailed contents of Vol. I with special reference 
to the subject-matter of Chapters I to XIII ... 
Detailed contents of Chapters XIV and XV and 
Appendix included in Vol. II 
Explanation of Abbreviations 
Prominent personalities on the Gita, Mr. Tilak, 
and the Gita-Rahasya- 
Translator’s Foreword ... ... 

Contents of Volume II (General) ... 

List of Illustrations 

Chap. XIV : Continuity of Chapters of the Gita 
Chap. XV: Conclusion 

APPENDIX. (External Examination of the 
Bhagavadgita—General Remarks ) 

Part I—The Gita and the Mahahharata 
Part II—^The Gita and the Upanisads 
Part III—The Gita and the Brahma-Sutras. 
Part TV—The rise of the Bhagavata Religion 
and the Gita 

Part V—The date of the present Gita 
Part VI—The Gita and the Buddhistic 
literature 

Part VII—The Gita and the Christian Bible. 
Author’s Preface to his commentated Transla¬ 
tion of the Gita 

Detailed contents of subjects in the various 
chapters of the Gita ... 


Page. 

iii 

V 

vi 

vii 
viii 

ix 

x 

xi to xxiii 

xxiv to xxviii 
xxix to xxxii 


xxxiii to xliii 
xliv to xlv 
xlvi to xlviii 
xlviii 
621 to 663 
664 to 714 

715 to 720 
720 to 739 
739 ;to 748 
749 to 758 

759 to 784 
785 to 800 

800 to 820 
820 to 831 

835 to 837 

838 to 850 



CONTENTS OF VOLUME II 


xlvii 


Subject. 

Tho Original stanzas of the GITA, with their 

translation, and the commentary on it 

Chajx I—Tho Yoga of the Dejection of 
Arjuna ... 

Chajx II—The Yoga of the Samkhyas 
(Saihkhya-Yoga) ... 

Gha]). Ill—The Yoga of Right Action 
(Karma-Yoga) 

Ohajx IV The Yoga of Knowledge and the 
Abandonment of (Emit of) 
Action 

Chaj). V The Yoga of Renunciation 
(Samnyasa) 

Chap. VI—The Yoga of Meditation (Dhyana) 

Cha]). VII—The Yoga of Spiritual Know¬ 
ledge ( jnami) and Empirical 
Knowledge ivljMm) . 

Cha]). VIII—The Yoga of the Imperishable 
Brahman 

Cha]). IX—The Yoga of the King of Sciences, 
and the King of Myiiteries ... 

Chap. X The Yoga of Manifestations 

Gha]). XI—^Tho Yoga of the Vision of the 
Cosmic Form 

Chap. XII—The Yoga of Devotion (Bhakti). 

Cha]). XIII Ihe Yoga of the distinction 
between the Body (ksetra) 
and the Atman (ksetrcijna )... 

Chap. XIV ^Ihe Yoga of the Division (of 
Prakrti) into Three Consti¬ 
tuents 

Chap. XV The Yoga of the Purusottama ... 

Chap, XVI—^The Yoga of the Division into 
Godly and Ungodly Endow¬ 
ment 


Page. 

851 et seq, 
851 to 865 
866 to 908 
909 to 938 

939 to 967 

968 to 980 
981 to 1009 

1010 to 1036 

1027 to 1043 

1044 to 1061 
1062 to 1078 

1079 to 1094 
1095 to 1105 

1106 to 1123 

1124 to 1133 
1134 to 1147 

1148 to 1157 



xlviii 


CONTENTS OF VOLUME II 


Snliject. Page, 

(jhap. XVlI—The Yoga of the Division into 

three kinds of Faith ... 1158 to 1170' 

Chap. XVIII—The Yoga ^of Release 

and Renunciation ( of the 
Fruit of Action ) ... 1171 to 1210 


INDEXES 

An Index showing the beginning of the first 
quarter of each stanza 

An Index of the words in, the Bhagavadgita 
An Index of Personago.s (not authors) re¬ 
ferred to in the Gita-Rahasya 
An Index of Foreign Authors referred to 
in the Glta-Rahasya 

An Index of Authors, (not foreign) and of their 
Works, referred to in tho Glta-Rahasya 
An Index of Definitions (Terminological 
Expressions)— 

Part I—Sanskrit 
Part 11—English 

General information about Hindu Religious 
Treatises... 

Glossary of important Sanskrit terms 


1 to 12 
13 to 76 

77 to 78 

79 to 80 

81 to 88 

89 to 99 
99 to 111 

112 to 115 
116 to 123^ 


LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS. 

Tho Author in his study ... to face p. 621 

The sacred battle-field called Kuru-Ksetra... „ p. 851 
The Funeral procession of the Author ... „ p. 1210 

Statue of the Author at Chowpati Sands, Bombay ,. Index. 





CHAPTER XIV. 

THE CONTINUITY OF THE CHAPTERS 
OF THE GI'TA 

(GiTAMiYAYA—SAMGATI) 

‘‘pravr'li hikmnain dluirmai'a rsir ndraijano ’hixvU I 

Mahabharata, >Santi. 217, 2,* 

it will have been notieed from l-he Expositior. made by me 
.50 far that the Bhagavadgita, that is to say. the Upaniaad 
sung by the Blessed Lord, has promulgated tae following 
doctrine, namely, that (i) acquiring complete Equability of 
Reason by Realising the universal identity of tlie Atman in 
all created things, whether by the Contemplaiion on the 
Absolute 8elf or by Devotion, while being engaged in Action, 
and (ii) continuing to perform all the various duties which 
have befallen one in worldly life according to th( injunctions 
of the Sastras, even after the acquisition of that Equability of 
Reason, without thinking of taking up Asceticism {samnyasa), 
is the highest goal (puramrUiu) or the best path of living one’s 
life for man in this world. Nevertheless, as the order in 
which this hlxpositioii has been made in this book, is different 
from tJie order adopted in the Gita, it is i ecessary to 
consider .succinctly in what way the whole of this subject- 
matter lias been arranged in the (.Hta. Any si bjeot-matter 
can be dealt with in two ways; the one is the scientific 
method, and the other i,s according to tho Puranas. 
Out of these, the method of explaining how the funda¬ 
mental principles of tlie doctrine to be established can bo 
derived from things which everybody easily understands by 
logically arranging and putting forward all the pros and cons 
of the dcictrine under discussion, is known as the scientific 

*‘-TJig Il.A Niirayalla lia,s pruaclit-'d an Eiiurgiri dc {prmrtli- 
lahawm) doidriuii (dharma)”. Tliis HA is one of tie two HAs 
Nara and Nariiyaria j and it has been mentioned before that Arjuna 
and Sri Krsua wore their respective iiiearnations. I tiave quoted 
in the foregoing pages the statement in the Mnhabhur; ta that the 
NarayaJiIya doctrine has been advocated in the Gita. 




623 


GiTA-RAHASYA OR KARMA-YOGA 


(sastriya) method. Geometry is an excellent example of this 
method, and the method adopted in the Nyaya-Sutras or the 
Vedfinta-Sutras falls into this class. Therefore, wherever the 
Bhagavadglta refers to the Brahma-Sutras or to the Vedanta- 
Sutras, it is stated that the subject-matter expounded in those 
Sutras has been expounded in the form of intentional and 
definite propositions; cf., “ brahma-sutra padais caiva hetu- 
madhhir w-mscitoi^’’(Gl, L3. 4), (i.e., “this subject-matter has 
been expounded by stating the reasons {hetu), and the 
conclusions, in absolutely definite words (pada) in the Brahma- 
Sutras ”—Trans,). But although, the exposition of the subject- 
matter in the Bhagavadglta is scientific, yet, it has not been. 
made in this, that is, in a scientific way. The subject-matter 
in the Gita has been described in the easy and entertaining 
form of a conversation between Sri Krsna and Arjuna; and 
therefore, at the end of each chapter, we find the words 
“ Sri krstiarjuna sa?hvade", (i.e., “in the conversation between 
Sri Krsna and Arjuna ”—'Trans.), which show the method of 
exposition adopted in the Gita, after the words “ bhagavadglta- 
supanimtSH brahmavidyayam yogasastre ", (he., “of the Science 
of Yoga, included in the cult of the Brahman, expounded in 
the Upanisad sung by the Blessed Lord”—Trans), I have used 
the word 'paufdnika' (i. e., “in the fashion of the Puranas”— 
Trans.) with reference to the catechismal exposition, in order 
to clearly show the difference between that method of exposition 
and the scientific method. It would have been absolutely 
impossible to go into a thorough discussion of all the various 
matters which are included in a comprehensive word like 
* dharnia’ (Morality) in such a catechismal or ‘ paurunika ‘ 
exposition extending over only 700 stanzas. Yetj it is 
a matter of great surprise that all the various subjects,- 
which arise in the Gita, have been crammed together, 
without mutual conflict, in that way in the Gita though 
succinctly; and this proves the wonderful skill of the author 
of the Gita, and explains the propriety of the statement 
made in the beginning of the Anugita, that the advice given 
in the Gita was given with an'extremely Yogic (yoga-yukta) 
frame of mind’. There was no reason to explain once more 
in detail those matters which were already known to Arjuna, 




t:ONTINUITY OF CHAPTERS OF TH]?: GITA 


633 


His chief difficulty was whether or not he should commit such 
a terrible act like warfare, and if so, how; and when Sri 
Krsna advanced any particular logical argumeat in His reply, 
Arjuna w(mld raise objections to it. The exposition made in 
the Gita in the form of this catechism is naturally very 
succinct or short in some places, whereas there have been 
repetitions in other places. For instance, tlie description of 
tlie developing-Qut of throe-constitucnted Matt Jr has appeared 
with slight differences in two places (Gi. Chap, f and XIV); 
whereas, although the descripti'.m of the St litaprajha, the 
Bhagavad-bhakta, the TrigunatiLa, and the Brahma-bhuta is 
one and Idle same, yet, the same has been repeated on different 
occat ion.s from different jioints of view. On i he other hand, 
the doctrine that 'arHui (wealth) and ‘kuiiia' (desire), are proper 
when not inconsistent with iJhnnm (Morality), has been 
enunciated in the single sontonco "dhunnadrud iliuh kamo'tsmi" 
(7. I t), (i. e,, “I am that /wm (Desire), which is not contrary 
to tllianiiu (Morality)”—'I'rans). In consequenc'j, although all 
these various subjects have appeared in the Git.i, yet, the readers 
of tae .lita get confused as a result of their not being 
acquainted witli tlie traditions of the ancient doctrines of the 
religion of the Srutis, the religion of the Smrtis. the Bhagavata 
religion, the Sarrikhya philo.sophy, the Purve-Mimarhsa, the 
Vedanta I’hilosophy, the Theory of Causality (kurnui-mpdka) 
etc., on the authority of which the Knowledge in the Gita 
has ireen expounded; and as they do not really understand 
the method of exposition, they think that the Gita is 
.something unintelligible; or that it must have been expounded 
before ths scientific method of expounding things had come 
into vogue, and that there are, on that account, to be found 
inconsistencies or an incomplete o.xposition in various 
places in the Gita; or that at any rate, the Knov^’ledge expound¬ 
ed in it is inaccessible to their intelligence. If one refers 
to the various commentaries for clearing one’s doubts, one gets 
all the more confused, since almost all the commentaries are 
in suppoi't of some doctrine or other, and it becomes extremely 
diliicult to harmonise the mutually conilicting opinions of the 
commentators. I know several even very learned readers, who 
have got confused in this way. In order that such a difficulty 



634 


gIta-rahasya or karma-yoga 


should no more remain, I have so far expounded the various 
subjects described in the Gita, by scientifically arranging 
them in a way I. thought best. If I now explain how these 
various subjects have more or less figured in the conversation 
between Sri Krsna and Arjuna, by reference to the questions 
or doubts expressed by Arjuna, my whole Exposition will 
become complete, and it will be easier for me to sum up the 
entire subjecc-matter in the next chapter. 

My readers must first remember that the Gita was preached 
by one omniscient, all-powerful, prosperous, and highly 
revered Ksatriya to another powerful archer-warrior, in order 
to induce the latter to perform his duties according to the 
law of warriors at a date when our India was well-known 
on all sides as enjoying the happiness of Spiritual Knowledge, 
material wealth, worldly success, and complete self-govorn- 
ment. Mahavlra and Gautama Buddha, the protagonists of 
the Jain and Buddhist religions respectively, both belonged to 
the warrior clas.s; yet, Sri Krsiia did not, as was done by 
both of them, adopt only the Path of Renunciation from the 
Vedic religion, and open the door of the Path of Renunciation 
to all classes, including the warrior class; and the advice 
given in the Bhagavata religion is that not only the warrior 
class, but even Brahmins must adopt the path of taking part 
in all worldly activities, till death, with a desireless frame 
of mind, while possessing the Peace ( santi) pertaining to the 
Path of RGimnoiation. But whatever advice is given, it is 
necessary that there should he some occasion for giving it; 
and in order that the advice given should become fruitful, 
a desire to receive the Knowledge of that advice must, in 
the first place, have arisen in the mind of the disciple. 
Therefore, in order to explain both these things, Vyasa has 
explained in detail in the EIRBT GtiAPl’ER of the Gita, the 
occasion for Sri Krsna to give this advice to Arjuna, 'Ihe 
armies of tlie Kanravas and the Paiidavas were standing on 
the field of Kuru, to fight with each other, and the fight was 
about to start, when Sri Krsna, at the desire of Arjuna, took 
and left his cdiariot in the middle of both the armies, and said 
to him, “look: at these Bhisma, Drona, and others with whom 
you have to fight”. Then, when Arjuna had looked at both the 





C()NT[NUITY OF CHAPTERS OF THE (HTA 


625 


armies, he saw that his own ancestors, uncles, grand-fathers, 
maternal ancles, brethren, sons, grand-sons, friends, relatives, 
preceptors, co-disciples etc. were ranged on both «des, and that 
all of them would be killed in the war ! It was not that the 
war had sprung up suddenly, 'I'he decision to fight had been 
arrived at, and the recruiting of the armies on both sides had 
been going on for many days, Nevertheless, when Arjuna saw 
the realisHc vision of the destru(;tion of the tntire clan by 
this internecine war, even a great tighter like him felt unhappy, 
and he said : “Alas ! are wo going to bring about this terrible 
destruction of our own clan in order that we should get the 
kingdom V Is it not bcstter to beg?” And he said to Sri Krsna : “It 
does not ni itter if I am killed l»y my enemies; hut, I do not wish 
to commit, terrible sins like patriiudo, or the murder of one’s 
preceptors or fratricide, or the destruction of the entire clan, 
even if I w'ere to get ttie kingdom of the three worlds’’. His body 
begair to rrend)le, he lost control over his limbs, his mouth 
became dry, and with a very unhappy face, he threw down his 
bow' and arrows and sat down in his chariot. This i)art of the 
story is rienl,ioned in the first cliapter, which is called the 
‘Yoga of the Dejection of Arjuna’; because, although the 
whole of t;ie (iita deals with only one subject-matter, namely, 
‘the philosophy of Karma-Yoga included in the c ilt ( vidijU,) of 
the Brahman’, the subject-matter principally described in each 
chapter is looked upon as a portion of this philosophy of 
Karma-Yoga, and each chapter is, with reference to the 
subject-matter in it, ciallod this Yoga, iliat Yoga etc. And all 
these YogLis taken together, make up the entire I.^hilosophy of 
Karma-Ycga included in the cult (vidija) of the llrahraan ’. I have 
explained in t ie beginning of the hook the impcrtance of the 
first chap ter of the Gita; bacauso, if one does not clearly 
understand at the outset what the ((uestion before one is, one 
cannot also clearly understand the answer to that question. 
If the sum and substance of the (Itta is to he understood as 
being that one should atiandon worldly life, and take either to 
Devotion to the Blessed Lord, or the I’ath of Renunciation, 
then tliere was no necessity to give that advice to Arjuna, as he 
was ready to give up the terrible warfare of his own accord and 
to go begging round the world. The author of the Gita could have 



626 


GlTMAHASYA OR KARMA-YOGA 


put into the mouth of Sri Kmna a stanza or two containing 
such words as: “Hullol what a nice thing you have said! I 
am very glad to notice your repentance 1 Come ; let us both 
give up this worldly life which is full of Action, and redeem 
our respective Selfs by the Path of Renunciation or the Path 
of Devotion I” ; and ho could have thus ended the Gita. Then, 
if the war had taken place thereafter, and Vyasa had mis¬ 
employed his speech by spending three years (Ma. Bha. A. 
62. 52) in describing it, Arjuna and Sri Krsna at any rate would 
not have been to blame for it. It is true that the thousands of 
warriors, collected together on the battle-field of Kuril, would 
have derided Arjuna and Sri Krsna ; but, would a man who was 
bent on redeeming his own Self, pay even the slightest attention 
to such derision ? Whatever the world said, the Upanisads 
themselves have said: "ycul ufuir eva virajet tad ahar eva 
pravrajet" (Ja. 4), i. e., “that moment when you repent, that 
very moment you should renounce the world, and not delay the 
matter”. Elven if one says that the repentance of Arjuna was 
not based on Self-Realisation, but on Ignorance (moha), yet, 
the fact that there was a repentance at ail, would finish 
half the task; and it was not impossible for the Blessed 
Lord to remove his Ignorance and to give that repentance 
the foundation of Knowledge. Even among those who follow 
the Path of Renunciation or the Path of Devotion, there 
are examphss of persons who have given up worldly life, as 
they had for some reason or other got tired of such life, 
and later on obtained complete perfection; and Arjuna could 
have been dealt with in the same way. One could easily 
have found in the field of Kuru, the handful of saffron colour 
necessary for colouring the clothes of Arjuna like those of 
a Saihnyasin, or the cymbals, drums, and other instruments 
necessary for him for singing the praises of the Blessed Lord. 

But instead of doing so, Sri Krsna has on the contrary 
said to Arjuna in the beginning of the SECOND CHAPTER 
that: “O Arjuna, whence have you got this disastrous 
idea (kasmala) ? This irapotency (Maibya) is unworthy of 
you 1 your reputation will go to dogs! therefore, give up this 
weakness (daurbalya) and stand up and fight!” But when 
in spite of that advice, Arjuna reiterated his previous unmanly 



CONTINUITY OF CHAPTERS OF THE (HTA 


6^7 


tale of woe, and said to Sri Krsiia with a pity ful expression 
on his face: “how shall I kill such great and nohle-souled 
persons like Bhisma, Drona etc. V My mind is confused by 
the doubt as to whether it is better to die or to kill them; 
therefore, tell me which of these two paths is the more 
meritorious; [ am surrendering myself to You”, Sri Krsna 
saw that Arjuna was completely under the sway of this 
despondence; and smiling a little. He started imparting 
Knowledge to him with the words “ asocyan ivr va S(M:a^ tvnm 
etc.”. Arjuna wanted to act like a Jnanin (scisnt), and was 
boasting about Renunciation of Action; and therefore, the 
Blessed Lord has commenced His advice with t le description 
of the two paths (Nislhas) of ‘Abandonment of Action’and 
‘Performance of Action’, which were being followed in 
the world by Juanins; and He first tells Arjuna that 
whichever of the two paths was adopted by him, he would 
yet be wrong. HE then gives advice to Arjuna, upto the 
words, “ p;,sd te 'hlu/utu minkhm' hui/.dluh.'' etc. (Gl, ‘Z. 
11-39), (i. e., “,1 have given this advice or ^Knowledge to 
you, or .made this Exposition, according to 'ihe Saihkhya 
system”—Trans.) regarding the Path of Ifnowledge or 
Samkhya system, on. the basis of w'hich Arjuna had begun to 
speak of Abandonment of Action; and then He tells Arjuna, 
upto the end of chapter, that fighting was his true duty 
consistently with the Path of Karma-Yoga, [f some such 
stanza like “ usu te’bhihlu fid/hkhne” had come before the 
stanza asocyan anva sacnstvam” etc., this same meaning would 
have been conveyed in a more pronounced way . But, it has 
come in tiie course of conversation, in the form of: “so far, 
I have explained the system of the Samkhyas I shall now 
explain to you the philosophy of Karma-Yogt”, after the 
exposition of the Samkhya system was over, I n either case, 
the meaning is the same. 1 have clearly explained the 
difference between the Baihkhya or Renunciatory path and the 
Yoga or Activistic path in the eleventh chapter above; and I 
shall, therefore, without repeating the same subject-matter here 
only say that, abandoning Action and taking to Asceticism 
for obtaining .Release, after a man has acquired Knowledge by 
the performance of such Actions as are enjoined on the 






628 


gIta-rahasya. or karma-yoga 


particular castes for the purification of the Mind, having 
regard to the different stages of life, is known as the Sarakhya 
path; and not abandoning Action at any time, but continuing 
the performance of Action desirelesaly, so long as life lasts, is 
known as Yoga or Karma-Yoga. The Blessed Lord first says 
to Arjuna: “in as much as the Atman is imperishable and 
immortal according to the Philosophy of the Absolute Self 
expounded in the Samkhya system, this idea that you are going 
to kill Bhisma etc. is wrong in its very inception; because, the 
Atman is not killed, nor does it kill. Just as a man changes 
one set of clothes and puts on another, so does the Atman give 
up one body and take up another; that is all. But it is not 
right, on that account, to imagine that the Atman is dead and 
to lament for it. Well; if, on the ground that the idea that 
‘ I am going to kill ’ is an illusion, you ask Me, why you 
should fight at all, then. My answer is, that it is the duty of the 
warrior class not to withdraw from that warfare which befalls 
that class according to the Sastras; and as even according to 
the Samkhya philosophy, it is considered meritorious to perform, 
in the beginning all Actions which befall one according to the 
arrangement of the castes and the stages of life, people will 
find fault with you if you do not do so ; nay, falling in the 
fight is the duty of soldiers. Then why are you dejected 'f 
Give up the Karma-vision that ‘ 1 am killing and he 
is dying and perform that Action which befalls you 
in the cour.se of life, with the idea that you are merely doing 
your own duty, so that you will thereby incur no sin 
whatsoever ”. This is the advice given consistently with the 
Samkhya philosophy. But that still leaves untouched the 
doubt, that it is hotter not to fight and to renounce tlio world, 
immediately on feeling the repentance (if possible), if, according 
to the Samkhya doctrine, it is considered more meritorious to give 
up all Action and to renounce the world after the purification 
of the Mind. These doubters say that it is not enough to reply 
that Manu and other Smrti writers have dictated that one should 
renounce the world in old age, after having completed the 
state of a householder, aird that one must live in the state of 
a householder in youth; because, if renouncing the world 
sometime or other is the most mei’itorious course of action, the 




(JONTINUITY OF CHAPTERS OF THE GlTA 629 


proper course is to do so without delay, &s soon as one 
gets tired of worldly life; and that is why there are such 
statements in the Upanisads as, liralimacarytld evapravrajet 
grluid to mndd m" (Ja. 4), (i.e., “one shoull renounce the 
world whether in the state of u celibate, or a householder, or of 
a denizen of the woods 'Prans.). That ultimate goal which 
is to be obtained by renouncing tiio world is obtained by the 
warrior by falling on the Itattle-held. It is stated in the 
Mahabharata that 

i!> dt iimii puriiJjtii.’Htiiiltra xTinjatnandnlu hlmdimii i 
/<(/•'.■ Hkj ijugayulcfas at ntnfi crdddinukho luitah II 

(IJ.lyo. 32. 65) 

that is, “ 0, tiger in the 8lia))u of a man ( purum <!/(itjhra ), there 
are only two porsoas who can pienw the const dlation of the 
Sun and reach the sphere of the Brahman; the one is the 
Ascetic stooped in Voga, and the other is the wa rrior who falls 
on the little-field whilo fighting’'; and we find a stanza 
convoying the same hnport in the book on Kconomias 
oy Kautilya, that is, by CaiiSkya, to the effect 

that : 

HO;, ijajm mmjhiin /n/Ktsu- m dpruh 
ttmrpaidij'ih jHitra at yais ai ynnti i 
fa/I. apu (iliymiti- Simik 
pnitjun .'iuyuddltenii parilyiijanlah ii 

(Kauti 10. 3,150-152 and Ma. Bhi. San. 92-100) 

that is: "Warriors, wlio give up Uteir lives in warfare, go in 
a moment far beyond tliat sphcro whicii is obtained after death 
by Briii.iKsns desiring heaven, by moans of ms.ny sacrihcial 
offerings, or of austerities”; that is to say, tliet goal which 
is reacitea not only by uustero ascetics or those who have 
ronoiiiiced the world, but oven by those who perform sacrifi¬ 
cial rituai, is also reached by the warrior who falls on the 
field ef l.attlo. This is the suiiniiary of the advice given 
in the Gica to the effect that, “thu gateway of heaven in the 
.shape of war, is rarely found open by a warrior; if you die 



630 


GlTA-RAHASYA OR KARMA-YOGA 


in the war, you will obtain heaven, and if you gain victory, 
you will obtain the kingdom of the world” (3. 33, 37). 
Therefore, it could even be maintained, according to Sarnkhya 
philosophy, that whether Arjuna took up Asceticism or fought, 
the result would be the same. Nevertheless, the definite conclu¬ 
sion that ho must fight under any circumstances is not arrived 
at by the logical arguments advanced by the Sarnkhya school. 
Realising this difficulty which would arise for Arjuna by 
following the Sarnkhya philosophy, the Blessed fjord has 
after finishing with tire exposition of the Saihkhya system, 
started with the exposition of the Path of Karma-Yoga; 
and, in order to clear to clear this doubt, tlie Blessed Lord has, 
upto the last chapter of the Gita, expounded by giving 
various examples, this Karma-Yoga—that is, this position 
that Action must be performed, and that instead of such 
Action coming in the way of Release, such Release is, 
on the other hand, obtained wliilo performing Action. 
The central principle of the Karma-Yoga is that in order to 
decide whether a particular Action is good or bad, one has 
first to see v^hether the Practical Reason ( vamnatmika bwldki) 
of the doer was pure or impure, rather than considering the 
external effects of that Action (GI. 3. 49). But, as the question 
whether the Practical Reason (vdfuma) was pure or Impure has 
ultimately to be decided by the Pure (or Discerning) licason 
( vi/avasayntmUcu biKldhi ), the Desire does not become pure and 
equable, unless the Discerning Reason is equable. It is, 
therefore, stated at the same time, that in order to purify the 
Practical Reason, one must also in the first instance steady 
the Discerning Reason by means of Concentration (Gi. 3. 41). 
If one considers the ordinary activities of the world, the 
majority of people are seen engrossed in the Vedic ritual or 
sacrifices etc., based on Desire, for the acquisition of various 
forms of happiness based on Desire; and on that account their 
Desire is seen to be keen to-day on obtaining this fruit or 
to-morrow some other fruit, that is, engrossed in selfish 
interests and constantly changing. But, such persons cannot 
possibly get the permanent happiness of Release, which is of 
greater importance than the transient result in the shape of 
heaven, etc. Therefore, the mystic import of the I’ath of 



CONTJNUITY OF CHAPTERS OF THE GiTA 631 


Karma-Yoga is now explained to Arjuna (2. 47-53) by his being 
told that; “give up this desire-prompted acthity of Vedic 
Karma, and learn to perform Action desirelessly; your authority 
extends only to the performance of Action; obtaining or not 
obtaining the Friut of Action is a matter which is never within 
your control (2, 47); those who perform Action believing that 
the giver of the fruit is the Paramesvara, and wit.h the equable 
frame of mind that it is same whether or not the Fruit of the 
Action is obtained, are not affected by the sin or the merit of the 
Action; therefore, acquire this Equable Reason; this Equability 
of Reason is known as Yoga—that is, the device if performing 
Action withouc thereby committing sin; when ycu have learnt 
this Yoga, you will obtain Release notwithstaniing that you 
may be performing Action; it is not that Action has to be 
abandoned in order to attain Release ” etc. Af ter the Blessed 
Lord had explained to Arjuna that that person whose Reason 
had become equable in this way, was to be called a 
‘ Sthitaprajha ’ (Steady-in-Mind), (2. 53), Arjuna again asked 
the Blessed Lord to tell him how such a Sthitajir ijha behaves. 
Therefore, the description of the course of lif) of such a 
Sthitaprajna has been given at the end of the sec ond chapter ; 
and it is uitimatoly said that the intellectual state of such a 
Sthitaprajr a is known as the Brahiui state (the state of being 
merged in the Brahman). In short, the advice given in the 
Gita to induce Arjuna to light has been started with the 
description of the two Nisthas, which have become acceptable 
to Juanins in this world, namely, the two paths of 
‘abandoning Action’ (Sarhkhya ) and ‘performing Action' 
(Yoga); and the war has first been justitiod on the basis of the 
Saihkhya system of philosophy; but, seeing that that argument 
was inconclusive, the science of Realisation acc ording to the 
Path of Yoga or Karma-Yoga has been started immediately 
afterwards; and after having mentioned that even a little 
observance of this Karma-Yoga is highly meritorious, 
the Blessed Lord has in the second chapter come to the stage 
of saying that in as much as the Reason which inspires the 
Karma is looked upon as superior to the Karma itself in 
the Path of Karma-Yoga, Arjuna should perform Actions after 
having made his Reason equable like that of a Sthitaprajna, 



633 


GITA-RAHASYA OB KARMA-YOGA 


so that he would not incur any sin. Let us now see what further 
questions arise. As the root of the whole of the exposition of 
the Gita is in the second chapter, I have dealt with that matter 
somewhat at length. 

The question of Arjuna at the beginning of the THIRD 
CHAPTER is : “if in the Path of Karma-Yoga, the Reason is 
superior to the Karma itself, then it will be enough if I make 
my Reason equable like that of a Sthitaprajna; why do you ask 
me to perform such a terrible act like warV”. Because, saying 
that the Reason is superior to the Action, does not answer the 
question why war should bo carried on, and why one should not 
renounce the world after making one’s Reason equable. It is 
not that one cannot abandon Action (perform Karma-Samnyasa) 
with an equable Reason, Then, where is the objection 
to an equable-minded person abandoning Action according 
to the Sarhkhya Path ‘i This question is now answered by the 
Blessed Lord by saying : “ it is true that I have mentioned 
to you the two paths of Sariikhya and Yoga; but no man 
soever can entirely give up Action. So long as he is clothed 
in a body, Matter ( -prakHi ) will by its inherent nature, compel 
him to perform Action ; and if you cannot escape this Action, 
which is the result of Prakrti, it is more meritorious to 
equabilise and steady your mind by.exercising control over the 
organs, and to perform all your various duties merely by the 
organs of Action. Therefore, go on performing Action, for 
if you do not do so, you will not be able even to obtain food 
to eat (3.3--8). Action has been created by the Paramesvara ; 
not by man. When Brahniadova created the universe and 
all created beings, he at the same time also created the 
‘ Yajha’(sacrificial ritual), and told the created beings that 
they should obtain their own welfare by means of this Yajua ; 
and as those Yajnas cannot bo performed without Action 
{ karma ), therefore, Yajna is nothing but Karma. Therefore, 
it must be said that man and Karma have been created at the 
same time. But, as the sole purpose of this Karma is the 
Yajna, and as the Yajha is the duty of man, therefore, the 
fruit of this Karma does not create a bondage for man. Now 
it is true, that a man who has become a Jnanin has no more 
any duty left to be performed for his own benefit; and at the 





CONTINUITY OF CHAPTERS OF THE GlTA 


()33 


dame time, he is in no way concerned with other people. 
But, from tliis it does not follow, that one should not perform 
Action; because, as nobody can escape Action, one comes to 
the necessary conclusion that such Action must now he 
performed desirelessly for the benefit of others, though it is 
not necessary to perform it for one’s own seliish interests 
{Gl. 3, Bearing these thing,d in mind, .Tanaka and 

other Jhanins have engaged in Action in ancien ; times, and 
I the Blessed Lord, am doing the same. Besides, bringing 
about ‘ lokd/nmijritha ’ (universal welfare), that is, putting 
people on the path of self-amelioration by placing before their 
eyes a good example in the shape of one’s conduct, is one of the 
most important duties of Jhanins (Hcients). However Know¬ 
ledgeful a Jhanin may be, ho does not escape the activities of 
Prakrti: therefore, far from giving up Action, it is more 
meritorious to even lose uuo’slife, if necessary, while performing 
Actions as duties according to one’s own religion (dliarina), (3. 
30-35)”. Such is the advice wdiich the Blessed Lord has given in 
this chapter. Seeing that the Blessed Lord had in this way 
placed the entire responsibility of Action on the shoulders of 
Prakrti, Arjuna next asks w!iy a man commits sin, though he 
has no desire to do so. In reply the Blessed Lord has said that 
kama (Desii-e), krodlia (anger), and other mental emotions 
forcibly stufdfy the mind; and that, therefore, everybody should 
control his mind by controlling the organs; and He has then 
closed the cliapter. In short, after establishing the necessity 
■of the Karma-Yoga by saying that (i) though the Heason may 
have li(.‘com( equable lik(,' that of a Sthitaprajfia, no one can 
escape Karma and that (ii) Karma must be performed 
desifC'lessly, for universal iunetit (lukasaiugraha), if not for 
one’s owm scdf-interest, the Blessed Lord has )y saying, 
“Dedicate all Actions tome’’ (3. SOGll) given in diis chapter 
the first glimpse (.sa/u tivUca) of the central princ iple of the 
lAithof Devotion, namely, of j)orforinifig all Actioiis with the 
idea of dL3dicating them to the Paramesvara. 

Ni.‘V'ertheh:ss, this sxibjeot-mattor has not been exhausted 
in the third chapter, and the FOURTH CHAPTER has been 
started for further dealing with the same subject. In order 
that Arjuna should not think that the disquisition made so far 




634 


GlTA-RAHAYSA OR KARMA-YOGA 


was something, new, which had been invented by the Blessed 
Lord merely for the purpose of inducing him to fight. He has 
in the beginning of the fourth chapter mentioned the tradition 
of this Karma-Yoga, that is, of the Bhagavata or Narayanlya 
religion, in the Tretayuga. After the Blessed Lord had said to 
Arjuna that in the beginning of the Yuga i{. e., “adrm”), 
He had taught this Path of Karma-Yoga to Vivasvata, 
Vivasvan to Manu, and Manu to Iksvaku, but that as 
it had been lost in the interim. He had again preached 
the same Yoga (the Path of Karma-Yoga) to Arjuna, Arjuna 
rejoined by asking how the Blessed Lord could have been in 
existence before Vivasvan. In reply to that question, the 
Blessed Lord has accounted for his several incarnations by 
saying that He had to take those incarnations for protecting 
saints and destroying evil-doers and establishing the true 
religion; and He has justified the Karma-Yoga by saying that 
though He was in this way performing Action for universal 
welfare ( lokasamgrafia ), He had not acquired or suffered for the 
merit or the sin of the Action, because He was not attached 
to the Action; and saying to Arjuna that Janaka and others 
had in ancient times followed that Yoga, understanding the 
underlying i)rinoipIe of it, Ho has advised Arjuna to do the 
same thing. He has hero repeated the doctrine of the 
Miraaihsa school mentioned in the third chapter that “ Action 
( karma) performed for sacrificial ritual does not create 
bondage ” ; and pointed out that (i) though throwing sesamum, 
ricG, etc,, into the fire or slaughtering animals, was a kind of 
sacrifice, yet, it was a sacrifice of a lower order, being merely 
a sacrifice of wealth, and that (ii) burning all such mental 
emotions, as desire, anger, etc., into the fire of self-control or 
sacrificing all Action into the Brahman with the words, 
‘ 7 ia mama ’ (i, e.j ‘this is not mine ’) were sacrifices of a higher 
order; and having in this way given a more detailed and 
comprehensive definition of the word ‘Yajna’, the Blessed 
Lord now advises Arjuna that all Actions should be 
performed giving up the Hope for Fruit for the purpose of this 
Yajna. Because, although Actions performed for the purpose of 
the Yajna do not by themselves create bondage according to the 
Mimarhsa doctrine, yet, one cannot escape obtaining the fruit 





CONTINUITY OF CHAPTERS OF the GITA 


635 


of the Yajha; and, therefore, if even the Yajha itself is 
performed desirelessly, neither the Actions performed for the 
purpose of the Yaifia, nor the Yajha itself will create bondage. 
The Blessed Lord has ultimately preached that (i) the 
Realisation {jilana ) that all created things are located in one’s 
self, or, in the Blessed Lord, is known as ‘ Equability of 
Reason’; that (ii) when this Realisation has oomt, all Actions 
are reduced to ashes and do not bind the doer; that (iii) “sarm 
ImrmakMUv'i purtlia jfimte jidrimniilpijale'', i. e., “all Action is 
ultimately merged in Knowledge”; that (iv) Action by itself 
does not create bondage, which results from tgjiorance, and 
that (v) therefore, Arjuna should give up Ignorance; and 
follow the path of Karma-Yoga and stand up to fight. In 
short, the subjact-matter of JNANY (Knowledga)- has here 
been introduced in this chapter by saying that in order to 
successfully follow the Path of Karma-Yoga, Knowledge in 
the form of E(iuabilil,y of Reason is nf!cessary. 

It is true that tho reasons wh,y Action should bo per¬ 
formed, that is, tho necessity of tlx* Karma-Yoga, has been 
explained in tho third and fourth oliaptcrs ; but as, already in 
the second chapter, after explaining the Knowledge contained 
in the Samkhya philosophy, the Blessed Lord has, even in the 
course of the description of the Karma-Yoga, said over and 
over again that the Reason was superior to the Action, it now 
become,s necessary to explain which of these two paths is 
superior. Because, if one says that both the paths are of 
equal importance, it follows that people are frse to choose 
whichever of the two paths they prefer, and that it is not 
necessary to follow only tho Path of Karma-Yog£,. This very 
doubt caiiio into the mind of Arjuna and ha has, in the 
beginning of the FIFTH CHAPTER, said to tho Elessed Lord, 
“ Do not mix up the two paths of Samkhya and Yoga, but tell 
me definitely which of the two is superior, so tliat it will be 
convenient for me to act accordingly and tho Blessed Lord 
has removed the doubt of Arjuna by saying that though both 
the paths are equally productive of Release, yet, the Path of 

* Tb c word ‘Knowledge’ has been used by me throughout as 

synonymous with ‘Realisation’ for translating tho ward ^Jnana’ _ 

Translator. 




636 


GlTA-RAHAS^A OE KARMA-YOGA 


Karma-Yoga is the better one of the two—“ karrna-yogo 
vmmjale ”, (i.e., “ Karma-Yoga is the better one ”—Trans.), 
<5. 2). For further emphasising this doctrine, the Blessed Lord 
also says that, not only does one attain by means of Karma- 
Yoga the same Release which can be attained by Renunciation 
or by the Samkhya Path, but that unless the desireless frame 
of mind prescribed in the Karma-Yoga is acquired, 
Renunciation itself is useless; and that once such a desireless 
frame of mind is acquired, one does not fail to attain the 
Brahman, notwithstanding that one may be performing 
Action according to the Path of Yoga. Then, where is the 
sense of raising a hue and cry that the Samkhya Path is 
different from the Yoga Path V If one cannot abandon the 
hundreds of Actions, which one usually performs, such as, 
walking, speaking, seeing, hearing, smelling, etc,, even if one 
wants to give them up, then the wisest course is not to take 
the trouble of abandoning Action, but to perform it with 
the idea of dedicating it to the Brahman. Therefore, true 
philosophers continue performing Actions desirelessly, and 
thereby ultimately acquire Peace {sanLi) and Release (inoksa). 
The Tsvara does not ask you either to give up Action or to 
perform Action. All this Action is the manifestation of 
Prakrti; and as bondage is a characteristic of the Mind, the 
man, who performs Action after he has become Equable in 
Reason, that is, after he has become “ sarvabluitatinabhutatmU”, 
(i.e., “ the Self which is identical with the Self (Atman) of all 
created beings ’’—Trans.), is not bound thereby. It is stated, 
in short, at the end of this chapter that (i) the man whose Mind 
has become equable towards the dog, the Candala, the Brahmin, 
the cow, the elephant, etc., and who has started performing 
his various activities after having realised the identity 
of the Atman ( Self) embodied in all created things, obtains 
Release in the shape of brahma-nirvam wherever he is; that 
(ii) it is not necessary for him to go anywhere else for the 
purpose, or to look out for some other means for obtaining 
Release; and that (iii) he is always free, unbound, and 
Released. 

The same subject-matter is continued in the SIXTH 
CHAPTER, and the Blejssed Lord has here explained in what 



CONTINUITY OF CHAPTERS of THE OfTA 


637 


way that Equable Reason can be acquired by which one can 
obtain success in the practice of Karma-Yoga. In the very 
first stanza, the Blessed Lord has expressed His firm opinion 
that the man who performs all Actions which fall to his share, 
as duties, and without entertaining the Hope of Emit, is the 
true Yogin, or the true Bamnyilsin; and that the man who sits 
quiet giving up the worship of the Fire (agni-hotni) etc. is not the 
true Samnyasin, HE then goes on to explain the principle of 
the Independence of the Atman by saying that whitever Action 
has to be performed in the shape of the control ol the organs, 
for steadying the Mind, according to the philosophy of 
Karma-Yoga, must be performed by oneself; and that if one 
does not do so, one cannot properly blame anybody else ; and 
after this, there is in tiiis chapter principally a d ascription of 
how Yoga in the shape of the control of the organs can be 
acoiuired according to the Patanjala-Yoga-Sastra. It is further- 
stated in this chapter that it is nevertheless not enough to merely 
control the organs by moans of rtdigious observance (ijania) 
restraint of the Mind (/wi/fx/uo), physical postures (atana), control 
of the breath f;n u((u//d)n,al, etc.; andtlie necessity of the Realisa¬ 
tion of the universality of the Atman has been emphasised in 
this chapter by saying that the frame of mind of the man 
must become E(iuable towards ail created beings as described 
in the words ‘‘mrvahluilaslImmTitmrhuvh mrmibhUtimi. catimni'' 
(6.29), (i. e., “all created beings are located in one’s iSelf and one’s 
Self is located in all created being.s’’- Trans.), or, i i the words 
“;yo iniii'H /ntsijaii sarmtra mrniin. ai iiiai/i pasyati" 6. 30), (i. e., 
“he who sees that I the Paramesvaru am everywhere, and that 
everything is located in me” Trans.). At this juncture, Arjuna 
experiences t he doubt that if this Yoga of Equability of Reason is 
not acquired iir one life, it will become necessary to begin the 
whole thing over again in the next life, and the story will be 
repeated in every birth ; and that on account of tliir recurrence 
in every life, it will not i)e possible to ever attaii Release by 
this means. In order to remove this doubt, the Blessed Lord 
has explained, that nothing is wasted in the path of Karma- 
Yoga, that the impressions received in the previous birth are 
carried forward into the next birth in which the practice of 
Karma-Yoga can be carried on further, and that Release is 




638 


GiTA-RAHASYA OR KARMA-YOGA 


ultimately obtained by gradual degrees; and He has at the- 
end of this chapter, again given to Arjuna a clear and' 
definite advice, that as the Path of Karma-Yoga is in this 
way the most superior path, and one which is gradually 
accessible, Arjuna should eschew the various paths of 
performing Action as such ( i. e., without giving up the 
Hope of Fruit), or the practice of austerities, or the 
abandonment of Action after Acquisition of Knowledge, and 
become a Yogin, that is, one who follows the Desireless 
Karma-Yoga. 

Some persons are of the opinion that the exposition of 
Karma-Yoga has come to an end here, that is, at the end of the 
sixth chapter; that thereafter, the Blessed Lord has described 
tlie Path of Knowledge and the Path of Devotion as two 
‘ independent ’ paths, that is to say, as paths which are 
mutually independent, or are the same in importance as the 
Karma-Yoga, but different from it, and as such, proper to be 
followed as alternatives for the Path of Karma-Yoga; that 
the Path of Devotion has been described from the seventh to 
the twelfth chapters and the Path of Knowledge in the 
remaining six chapters; and that if the eighteen chapters of 
the Gita are divided up in this way, six chapters each can. 
be allocated to Action ( Jtarma ), Devotion ( bhakti ) and 
Knowledge (jhuna ), and the Gita becomes equally divided, 
amongst the three paths. But this opinion is wrong. It becomes 
clear from the opening stanzas of chapter V, that the 
question of Arjuna was (i) whether he should give up the 
fight having regard to the principles of the Samkhya 
philosophy, or take part in it though he saw the terrible 
consequences of it in fi-ont of his eyes; and, (ii) if so, how 
the sin of it could be obviated; and this doubt was not going 
to be satisfied by giving an ambiguous and childish reply like : 
“ Release can be obtained both by Knowledge and by 
Karma-Yoga ”, or, “ if you want it, there is also the third path 
of Devotion”. Besides, when Arjuna was asking for definite 
guidance about one particular course of Action, it would be 
incorrect to imagine that, omniscient and clever Sri Krsna 
avoided the issue and showed him three independent and 
alternative courses of Action. Really speaking, the Gita. 






CONTI ISrUITY OF CHAPTERS OF THE GITA 


639 


considers only the two paths of ‘Renunciation’ (Sahnyasa), and 
‘ Energism ’ (Karma-Yoga), (Gl. 5. 1); and there has been given 
the definite decision that out of the two, the Path of Karma- 
Yoga is the superior path (Gi. 5. 2), Devotion has nowhere 
been mentioned as a third independent Nistha (Patii of Release). 
Therefore, the theory of three independent paths of Spiritual 
Knowledge, Action, and Devotion, is a creation of doctrine- 
supporting commentators; and as in their opinion the Gita 
considers only the means of obtaining Release, they have 
evidently got the idea of tliese three paths from tlie Bhagavata 
(Bhag. 11. 20. 6). But these commentators have not realised 
that the conclusions reached in the Bh^avata-Purana are not 
the same as those in the Bhagavadgita. Even the author of 
the Bhagav ata accepts the theorem that Releas J cannot be 
obtained by mere Action, and that Spiritua. Knowledge 
is a necessity. But the Bhagavata-Purana says, in addition 
that although Spiritual Knowledge and Desiri less Action 
(naifikarmija) arc! both jn-oductive of Release, yet, 3oth of them 
(that is to say, the desireless Karma-Yoga of the Gita) are 
useless without Devotion—“ muslcarnujam apy acyulahhavavarji- 
tat'n iia sobhate JiiuminaLnvt niranjanum" (Bhag, Ih 13. 52 and 
1. 2. 12 ), ( i, e., “Desii-eles.s Action unaccompanied by 

Devotion to the Unfallen (acynia), does not befit pure and 
stainless Knowledge”—Trans. ). From this point of view, it is 
quite clear that the author of the Bhagavata considers 
Devotion as the only true Nistha, that is, the ultimate Release¬ 
giving state. The Bhagavata does not say that the Devotee 
of the Blessed Lord should not perform Action with the idea 
of dedicating it to the Tsvara, nor does it say that Action 
must bi3 performed. The Bhagavata says that whether one 
performs Desireless Action or not, these are all different 
varieties of the Path of Devotion (Bhag. 3. 29. 7-1')); and that 
if there is no Devotion, all Karma-Yogas will bring a person 
back to worldly life, that is, into the cycle of Birt i and Death 
(Bhag. 1. 5. 34, 35). In short, as the entire emphasis of the 
author of the Bhagavata is on Devotion, he has included even 
the Desireless Karma-Yoga into the Path of Dcivotion, and 
maintained that Devotion is the only true Nistha. But, Devotion 
is not the principal subject-matter of exposition in the Gita; 



640 


GiTA-RAHASYA OR KARMA-YOGA 


and therefore, interpolating this doctrine or terminology of 
the Bhagavata into the Gita is as improper as fixing the bark 
of a wto-tree on a pippala-ir&e. Saying that Release cannot 
be obtained unless one has Realised the Paramesvara, and 
that Devotion is an easy way for such Realisation, is fully 
acceptable to the Giia. But the Gita does not insist on this 
particular path, and says that the Spiritual Knowledge, 
necessary for attaining Release should be obtained by every¬ 
body by whichever path he finds easy ; and the most important 
issue in the Gita is whether or not one should perform Action 
after the Acquisition of Knowledge {Spiritual Knowledge ). 
Therefore, the Gita starts with the consideration of the two 
paths of ‘ taking part in worldly affairs ’ and ‘abandoning, 
worldly affairs’, which are both followed by the Birth-released 
(jivanmukta) in this world; and instead of naming the first of 
these two paths as ‘Bhakti-Yoga’ (the Device of Devotion), as 
has been done by the author of the Bhagavata, the Gita retains 
the terminology of the ancient Narayanlya doctrine by 
referring to the ‘ Performance of Action with the idea of 
dedicating it to the Paramesvara ’ as ‘ Karma-Yoga ’ or ‘ Karma- 
Nistha,’ and to the ‘Abandonment of Action after Acquisition of 
Knowledge’ as ‘ Samkhya ’ or ‘ Jfiana-Nistha.’ If one considers 
the matter, after accepting this terminology of the Gita, 
Devotion can never become a third independent Nistha (path 
of Release) of the same grade as Knowledge, or Action. 
Because, no third position about Karma can now exist 
except the two affirmative and negative paths of ‘performing 
Action’ and ‘not-performing, or abandoning, Action' (Yoga 
and Samkhya). Therefore, if one has to determine what Nistha. 
is followed by the Devotee, one cannot decide the matter 
by merely considering the fact that he follows the Path of 
Devotion ; and one has to consider whether or not he performs 
Action, Devotion is only a means of reaching the 
Paramesvara ; and although Devotion may be called a ‘ Yoga ’ 
in the sense that it is a ' sudhana' (means), (Gl. 14. 36), yet,. 
Devotion can never become an ultimate Nistha. If, after the 
Knowledge of the Paramesvara has been acquired by means- 
of Devotion, a man continues to perform Action, he is called 
a ‘ Karma-nistha ’; and if he abandons Action, he is called. 



CONTI NUITY OF CHAPTERS OF THE GITA 


641 


a ‘ Saihkhya-nistha And the Blessed Lord has clearly 
indicated his opinion in the fifth chapter, that out of these two 
paths, the path of performing Action is the mort meritorious. 
But, tlie important objection of the School of Renunciation 
against Action is, that by performing Action, thi Realisation 
of the Paramesvara is obstructed; and that Action must be 
abandoned, as there can be no Rcdeaso unless the Knowledge 
of the Paianiesyara has been ae(iuired. It is stated in a 
genera] way in the fifth chapter that this objection is 
groundless, and that one can obtain the same Release by the 
Path of Action, as can be obtained by the Path of Renuncda- 
tion (Gi. 5. 5). But, as this general proposition lias not been 
fully developed in that chapter, the Blessed Lord is now 
dealing in the sixth chapter with the important question, 
namely, bow the Knowledge of the Paramesvara, and 
ultimately Release, is obtained by Action, while Action is 
being performed, which question had been incompletely dealt 
with in tlie fifth chapter. That is why, instead of saying 
that the Path of Devotion is an independent path the Blessed 
Lord lias in the beginning of tlu^ seventh clitpter said to 
Arjuna, thot, 

mayycwakta munUk partliu y<j<ia/'>t i/unjan midakr lyah i 

ascvnsaiHu'n udinipjrain inafn yuthd jnasyasi tacchinii ll 

(Gi. 7. 1). 

that is, ■' O Parnha, listen to the way (which I am explaining 
to youj by which (y<ilhd) you will undoubtedly acquire 
complete knowledge of Mo, while you are followiig the Path 
of Yoga, that is, of Karma-Yoga, keeping your mind fixed on 
Me, and having surrendered yourself to Mo ” ; and this very 
thing has been described in tho next stanza as ‘ Jhana-vijhana ’ 
(Gi. 7. 2). The words “ yotja/'u yunjait” in the first stanza 
quoted above, namely, in the stanza mayyat-aktamanUh'’, 
etc., wnich words {yoyafn yunjaii) moan, ‘ wlile you are 
performing the Karma-Yoga’, are most important, but no 
commentator seems to have attached any great importance to 
those words. ‘Yoga’ is necessarily the ‘Karma-’'f’oga’ which 
has been described in the first six chapters; and this stanza. 



€43 


GITA-RAHASYA OR KARMA-YOGA 


means that ‘now’, that is, from the seventh chapter, the Blessed 
Lord is starting a description of that path or 'mdhi' by which 
the complete knowledge of the Blessed Lord can be acquired 
while the man is practising this Karma-Yoga. That is to say, 
this stanza has been intentionally placed at the commencement 
of the seventh chapter, in order to show the relation between 
the first six chapters and the next chapter; therefore, it is highly 
improper to neglect this stanza and to say that “the Path of 
Devotion has been described as an independent path by itself 
after the first six chapters”. Nay ; I will even say that the 
words ‘ yogani yiiujan ' have been intentionally used in this 
stanza in order that such a misinterpretation should not be 
made by anybody. It has been shown in the first five chapters 
of the Gita, ‘after fully explaining the necessity of Karma 
(Action), that the Path of Action is superior to the Path of 
Renunciation; and then in the sixth chapter, the means 
mentioned in the Patafijala-Yoga for acquiring that control 
over the organs which is necessary for the Karma-Yoga, have 
been described. But this does not exhaust the description of 
Karma-Yoga. Control of the organs is a kind of exercise for 
the organs of Action. It is true that by this exercise, one can 
keep one’s organs under control; but if the Desire of a man is 
sinful, having the control of the organs is useless ; because, we 
see that when the Desire is sinful, many persons utilise the 
powers acquired by the control of the organs, for performing 
such sinful actions as propitiation (Jaraua) or killing (marana) 
etc. Therefore, it is stated in the sixth chapter that 
simultaneously with controlling the organs, one must also 
purify one’s Desire so that one Realises that “ sarvabhutastham 
dtmUnath Harvahhutani catmani ” (i.e„ “ all created beings are 
located in one’s self, and one’s self is located in all created 
beings”—Trans.), ( Gl. 6. 39). And this purification of 
Desire is impossible, unless one has Realised the purest 
form of the Paramesvara, by Realising the identity of 
the Brahman and the Atman, In short, even if one has 
acquired the control of the organs necessary in the Path of 
Karma-Yoga, one does not thereby drive ?-asa, that is, the liking 
for objects of pleasure, out of the Mind. The Blessed Lord has 
stated already in the second chapter of the Gita, that in order 



CONTINUITY OF CHAPTERS OF THE GtTA 


643 


that this rasa or Desire for objects of pleasure {vimya-vamna) 
should go ciut of the Mind, one has to fully Realise the Paraine- 
svara (Gl. 2. 59). Therefore, that means, that is, mdhi, by which 
this Knowledge of the Pararaesvara is acquired by a man, while 
he is following the Path of Karma-Yoga, is being described by 
the Blessed Lord from the seventh chapter. From the words, 
“ while practising the Karrna-Yoga ", it follows that this 
Knowledge has to be acquired while the Karma-Yoga is being 
practised, arid that Karma or Action has not to he abandoned 
for acquiring that Knowledge ; and tlierefore, the statement that 
the Paths of Devotion and of Spiritual Knowhdge are two 
independent paths, which have been described from the seventh 
chapter onwards as alternatives for the Path of Karma-Yoga, 
is groundless. As the Karma-Yoga in the Gita has been 
adopted from the Bhagavata religion, the description of the 
I'idhi (means) mentioned in the Karma-Yoga for the acquisition 
of Knowledge, is nothing but the description cf the means 
mentioned in the Bhagavata or the N'arayaniya i octrine ; and 
that is why Janatnejaya has been told by Vaisaih])ayana at the 
end of the Santi-parva that “ the Energistic ( jrravrllipara ) 
Narayatilya doctrine, together with the inoidenlal forms of 
worship, have been described in the Bhagavadgita” (seethe 
stanzas quoted at the lieginning of the first chapter.). As said 
by Vaisarh])ayana, this path also includes the 'lithi (practices) 
relating to the Path of Renunciation; because, although the 
distinction between these two paths is, that in one of them. 
Karma has to he performed, whereas in the other Karma has 
to be abandoned, yet, a.s the Spiritual and worldly Knowledge 
(jmna-mji'/una I necessary in both is the same, the practices 
prescribed for acquiring Spriritual Knowledge are common to 
both. Therefore, in as much as, the express words “ while 
following the Path of Karma-Yoga ” have beer used in the 
above stanza, it follows that (i) the exposition of Spiritual 
Knowledge (j/lana) and worldly Knowledge (vijuana) in 
the seventh and subsequent chapters is principally in support 
of Karma-Y"oga; that (ii) the practices relating to the Path 
of Renunoifition, which have been included in that jndna- 
ajnuHa have been so included on account of the comprehensive 
nature of that jnami-vijilafia, ixnd that (iii) this jnamt-vtjmna, 




644 


GITA-RAHASYA OR KARMA-YOGA 


has not been mentioned for supporting the Samkhya Pathi 
and suggesting that Karma-Yoga should be abandoned.. 
Another thing, which has to be borne in mind, is that though 
the followers of the Saihkbya school attach importance to- 
Spiritual Knowledge, they attach no importance whatsoever 
to Action ( karrna ) or Devotion ( hhnkti ); whereas. Devotion, 
has been looked upon as easy and important in the Gita. 
Not only is that so, but even while dealing with the 
subjects of Spiritual Knowledge and Devotion, Arjuna is 
being constantly given the advice that “ therefore, you 
must perform Action, that is, fight ” ( Gl. 8. 7 ; 11. 33 ; 16. 24 
18. 6). Therefore, one is forced to come to the conclusion, 
that the exposition of jnuiut-'vijndmi in the seventh and the 
subsequent chapters of the Gita is supplementary to, and in 
support of, the Path of Karma-Yoga mentioned in the first 
six chapters; and that those chapters do not contain any 
independent exposition of the Saihkhya Path or of the Path- 
of Devotion, And when this conclusion has once been, 
arrived at, the Gita cannot be divided into three mutually 
independent parts dealing respectively with Energism, 
Devotion, and Spiritual Knowledge. One also realises that 
the conclusion drawn by some persons from the two facts 
that (i) the. sacred canon ‘ Tat-Tvam-Asi ’ has three parts, and 
that (ii) the Gita, has eighteen chapters, that because six. 
times three is eighteen, the Gita should be divided into three 
equal portions of six chapters each, and the first six chapters 
should be looked upon as dealing with ‘ Tvam ’, the second 
six chapters with ‘ Tat and the third six chapters with. 
‘ Asi ’, is purely imaginary. Because, the one-sided theory 
that the whole of the Gita deals only with the Acquisition 
of the Knowledge of the Brahman, and does not contain 
anything more than an exposition of the canon ‘ Tat-Tvam-Asi’ 
falls to the ground as shown above. 

When in this way, an explanation has been given as to why 
the Paths of Devotion and Knowledge have been included in 
the Gita, one can easily understand the continuity between the 
chapters seven to seventeen inclusive, of the Gita. It has been 
stated previously in the sixth chapter, that one has to consider 
the form of the Paramesvara, by which the Mind becomes ‘free. 



CONTINUITY OF CHAPTERS OF THE Gl TA 


645 


from love of pleasure’ (rasa-mrja) and equable, once from the 
IJoint of view of the Perishable and Imperishabh {kmrakmra), 
and again from the point of view of the Body and the Atman ; 
and that, by such consideration, one arrives at the ultimate 
conclusion that “ whatever is in the Body {pinda), is also in 
the Cosmos (brahmanda ); and the same subjects now appear in 
the Gita. But, when one considers the form of the Paramesvara 
in this way, one sees that it is sometimes perceptible 
(cognisable by the organs) and sometimes imperceptible; and 
then, one has, in the course of this consideiation, also to 
consider which of these two t'ornis is the superior form, how 
the inferior form arises out of the superior for n, and many 
other similar questions. One has also now to decide, whether 
this worship of the Paramesvara, which has to be perfoi'med 
in order to fully Realise the i’aramesvara and '-o make one’s 
Reason .steady, equalde, and Self-devoted (atma-nit iha), should be 
the worship of the perceptible form or of the imperceptible 
form ; and one has to exphiiri why although there is only one 
Paramesviira, one comes across diversity in Ihe perceptible 
universe. There is no wonder that eieven chapters were required 
to explain all these subjects in a .systematic way. I do not 
say tliat the Gita does not contain any exposition of Devotion 
and of Sjriritual Knowledge. All that I say is that (i) the 
practice of looking upon Energism, Devotion, and Spiritual 
Knowledge as three independent and equivalent Nisthas, and 
making m equal division of eighteen chapters of the Gita 
amongst these three, as on a partition between the members of 
a joint fsinily, is not proper ; that (ii) the Gita supports only 
one patli, namely, the Path of Karma-Yoga based on 
Knowledge, in which Devotion is the most important 
factor: and that (iii) the exposition in the Ehagavadgite of 
Saihkhya philosoirhy, of Spiritual and world.y Knowledge, 
and of Devotion has been made only incidentally, for 
supplementing and .supporting the exposition of the Path of 
Karma-'I'oga, and not for dealing with tho.se subjects as in¬ 
dependent subjects. Let us now see how, on the basis of this 
conclusion, the subject-matter of Sqiiritual and worldly Know¬ 
ledge {j''tdnii-viJ/luiiu) lias been divided am on,gst the various 
ehapteri., for supplementing and for ompbasi.dng the exposition 



646 


GITA*RAHASYA OR KARMA-YOGA 


of the Karma-Yoga. 

In the SEVENTH CHAPTER, the consideration of the 
perishable and the imperishable world ( ksarakmra ), that is, 
of the entire Cosmos, has been started; and the Blessed 
Lord has, in the fir.st place, explained the nature of the 
imperceptible or imperishable Parabrahman, by saying 
that this entire universe, which is made up of Spirit {purusa ) 
and Matter {prakrti), consists of “My superior and inferior 
( parapara ) forms, and that those who worship Me, Realising 
this My imperceptible form which is beyond Maya, acquire 
an Equable Reason ( samabuddhi ), and are given an excellent 
final state by Me ” ; and He has then described His own form 
by saying that, “all deities, all created things, ail Yajnas, 
all Action, and the Absolute Self are Myself, and there 
is nothing in the world except Me’’. Then, as Arjuna has 
in the beginning of the EIGHTH CHAPTER asked what is 
meant by 'adhyatrm ’, ‘ adhiijajna ’ ‘ adhidmva ’ and ‘ adhihhUta ’, 
the Blessed Lord has in reply explained to him the meanings of 
those words, and said that, “ I do not neglect that man who 
has realised this My form ”; and He has then gone on to 
briefly explain what the imperishable or immortal Principle 
of the world is ; when and how the entire world is destroyed ; 
and what states are ultimately reached respectively by 
those who Realise and understand the true form of 
the Paramesvara, and by those who merely perform desire- 
prompted Action, without acquiring Knowledge. In the 
NINTH CHAPTER the same subject-matter is continned, and 
it is said that Realising by means of Devotion, the 
tangible form of the intangible Paramesvara, which has in 
this way filled the entire universe, and surrendering imeself to 
Him wholly and solely, is the easy or royal and practically 
experienceable path of Realising the Brahman ; and that that 
very path is also known as the ‘ king of all cults ’ and the 
‘king of all mysticisms.’ Nevertheless, the Blessed Lord doe.s 
not forget to mention every now and then in these three 
chapters, that the person who is following the Path of 
Spiritual Knowledge or the Path of Devotion, must continue 
performing Action, which Is the mo.st important principle in 



CONTINUITY OF CHAPTERS OF THE (HTA 


647 


the Path of Karmu-Yoga. Por instance, it is stated in the 
eightti chapter, that “tasmdt sarvem kalesu mam anusmara yudhyu 
ca”, i. e., ‘the.refore, continue to keep Me before your mind at 
all times, and fight” (8. 7); and in the ninth chapter, that “by 
dedicating to Me all Action whatsoever, you will be free from 
the meritorious or evil effects of the Action” (9, 27, 28). After- 
explaining to Arjuna in the TENTH CHAPTER the statement 
made by Him earlier, that “the entire Cosmos has sprung from 
Me, ;ind is My form”, by saying that everyone of the 
excellent things in the world is an incarnation of the Blessed 
Lord, and giving many examples, the Blessed Lord has, at 
the desire of Arjuna, actually shown to him in the 
ELEVENTH CHAPTER, His Cosmic Form, xnd proved to 
him the truth of the ])osition that the Paramesvara is All- 
pervading, by placing before his eyes such His Cosmic Form. 
But, immediately after having satisfied Arjuna in, this way, by 
actually showing him His Cosmic Form, that thr true doer was 
the Paramesvara, Ho has said to him : “ I am the true doer and 
you are merely a to(d ; thisrefuro, give up all doubts, and fight” 
(Gi. 11. 3:3), Although it hai; been proved in this way, that there 
is only one Paramesvara in the world, yet, in as much as there 
are such si iitements in various place.s as: “although I am imper¬ 
ceptible, fools look mion me as perceptible” (7.24); “yad aksaram 
vedamdo vadanti" (8. H), i.o., “Him, Whom the k lowers of the 
Vedas, refer to as the Imperishable”; “It is the Intangible, 
which!; also known as the Inexhaustible” (8, 21); ‘not Realising 
My true form, fools believe that I have taken up a human form” 
(S). 11); “iiinong all the cults (Adyd), the cult o 'the Absolute 
Self is the most excellent” (10. 32); and, as said by Arjuna, 
“ tvani akt^ira/h sadaaat fat panuh yat” (11. 37), (;.e., “You are 
the sat (Bhal). and the asal (Unreal), and the aksira (Imperish¬ 
able) which is beyond both sat and asat ”—-Trans.), which 
statements mean that the imperceptible form of the 
ParameWara is the most excellent form, Arjuna, in the 
beginning of the TWELFTH CHAPTER, asks the Blessed 
Lord tlie iiiieition whether the worship of the ParameWara 
which has to be performed, should he the worship of the 
perceptible form or of the imperceptible form. To this, the 
Blessed Lord replies that the perceptible form de.soribed in the 




648 


GiTA-RAHASYA OR KARMA-YOGA 


ninth chapter is the easier one to worship; and after describing 
the state of the highest Devotee of the Blessed Lord as being 
similar to that of the Sthitaprajna, described in the second 
chapter, He closes this chapter. 

Although it Is seen in this way, that it is not possible to 
divide the Gita into three independent portions dealing with 
Energism, Devotion, and Spiritual Knowledge, yet, some 
people think that it is easy to divide the Spiritual and 
worldly Knowledge described from the seventh chapter into 
the two divisions of ‘ Devotion ’ and ‘ Knowledge ’; and they 
.say that the second division of six chapters deals with Devo¬ 
tion. But, anybody will realise after only a little thought, 
that this opinion i.s wrong; bocau.se, the seventh chapter 
starts with the Spiritual and worldly Knowledge of the 
perishable and the imperishable world, and not with Devotion; 
and if it is argued that the subject-matter of Devotion has 
come to an end with the twelfth chapter, then we find state¬ 
ments in different places in the subsequent chapters preaching 
Devotion, such as, “ those who do not Realise My form by 
Intelligence, should worship Me, relying on the state¬ 
ments of others” (Gl. 13. 35); “that man who offers me 
unadulterated Devotion, reache.H the sphere of the Brahman ” 
(14. 26); “that man who Realises the form of the Purusottama, 
only offers Devotion to Me ” (Gi. 15. 19), and ultimately in the 
eighteenth chapter, “ give up all other religions and worship 
Me ” (Gl. 18. 66). Therefore, it cannot be said that the advice 
to follow the Path of Devotion is contained only in the 
second division of six chapters. In the same way, if 
the Blessed Lord had intended to say that Devotion 
stood on a different footing from Spiritual Knowledge, then 
He would not have said “ I am now explaining to 
you that same Spiritual and worldly knowledge ” at the 
commencement of the seventh chapter (7. 3), that is to 
.say, at the corameiicoment of the second division of six 
chapters which, according to these objectors, deals with 
Devotion, after having introduced the subject-matter of 
Knowledge in the fourth chapter (4. 34-37). It is true that the 
‘ king of cults ’ (ruja-vidija) or the ‘ king of mysticism,s ’ {raja- 
jufuja), which is the actually realisable (pratijalinavagarmja) 




CONfTINUITY OF CHAPTERS OF THE GITA 


649 


Path of Devotion, has boon montioiiod in the subsequent ninth 
chapter; but at the very commencement of that 3hai)ter, there 
is a statement that : “ 1 am explaining to you Spiritual 
Knowledge side by side with worldly knowledge” (9. 1), It, 
therefore, follows that the liubject-matter of Devosion has been 
includ(;d in tin; Gita in the subject-matter of Spiritual 
Knowledge. In the tenth chapter, the Blessed Lord has 
described his own Manifestations (nihhuli.) ; b it this very 
thing has been referred to by Arjuna as ' adhvatma’ in the 
commencement of the eleventh chapter (11. Ij; and, as has been 
stated above, we find several sta.tem;mts that the imperceptible 
form is superior to the percoptilile form, inter-m:xed hero and 
there with the descriptions of the perceptible form of the 
Paramesvara. When, having regard to these statements, 
Arjuna asiv.s in the commencement of the twelfth chapter 
whether the woishi]) to bo performed is the worship of the 
Peroeptibbi or of the Iniporccptible, the Blessed Lord has stated 
in reply, that the worship of thi^ l-’erceptible, that is to say, 
Devotion, was the easier course; .,ind immediately thereafter 
in the thirteenth chatitur, lie commences the c.escription of 
'' Knowledge’ f jildna), and of th<i Body (ksetra) and the Atman 
{ksHrajna) ; and He also .sayi: at the commencement of the 
fourteenth chapter that: “ (Hiram h/iUiiah pravakH!,ami jJlanunam 
jmiiuini attani/im ” (14. 1), i. e., “1 am a.gain desiiribing to you 
completely that .sam • Spiritual and worldly Knowledge ”, as 
was statoii. by Him at the commencement ol the .seventh 
chapter ; and even while exiilaining this Knowledge, the 
thread of Devotion is kept running in the texture. From this 
it follows, that the Blessed* Lord did not intend to deal with 
Spiritual Knowledge and Devotion individually and indepen¬ 
dently, and that both those matters are woven together in the 
exposition of the Spiritual and worldly Knowledge (Jnana- 
vijilana) tiegun in the seventh cliapter, That Devotion is 
something distinct and Spiritual Knowledge is also something 
distinct, is a stupid theory whicli has been started by the 
advocates of those respective paths; that is not the opinion of 
the Gita. The Knowledge of the form of the Paramesvara, 
wliich has to be ai.‘(|uired by moans of meclitation on the 
Absolute yelf in the Path of the worship of tlie Imperceptible 



650 


GITA-RAHASYA OR KARMA-YOGA 


(the Path of Knowledge), is also essential in the Path of 
Devotion; but in the worship of the Perceptible (the Path of 
Devotion), this Knowledge can, in the beginning, be taken for 
granted by means of Faith from others (13, 25); and that is 
why the Path of Devotion is actually realisable and ordinarily 
pleasant (9. 2) for everybody, and the Path of Knowledge (or 
the worship of the Imperceptible) is difficult (12. 5); but, the 
Gita makes no other distinction between these two paths. The 
ideal in the Path of Karma-Yoga, namely, making the 
Reason (buddhi) equable after acquiring the Knowledge of the 
Paramesvara, is reached by both these paths. Therefore, the 
worship of the Perceptible and the worship of the Imperceptible 
are both equally acceptable to the Blessed Lord ; yet, as even 
the Jfianin needs to perform worship to some extent or other, 
the Blessed Lord has said, that the devout. Jnanin is the most 
excellent one among the four varieties of Devotees (Gi. 7. 17); 
and He has in that way eliminated the conflict between the 
Path of Devotion and the Path of Knowledge. While the 
description of Spiritual and worldly Knowledge is going on, 
it is, in any case, inevitable that there should be a special 
reference to the worship of the Perceptible in one chapter and 
to the worship of the Imperceptible in another chapter as 
occasion arises. But, in order that this should not give rise 
to the misunderstanding that these two matters are distinct 
from each other, the Blessed Lord has not forgotten to say 
that the perceptible form is inferior to the imperceptible 
form, while describing His perceptible form, and to say that 
Devotion is essential, while describing His imperceptible 
form. Nevertheless, as three or four chapters have been used 
up in describing the Cosmic Form and the Manifestations of 
the Blessed Lord, there is no objection to these three or four 
chapters (and not to a division of six chapters) being referred 
to as ‘ the Path of Devotion ’ in a comprehensive way, if soma 
one prefers to do so. But in any case, this can never mean 
that Devotion and Spiritual Knowledge have been distinguished 
from each other in the Gita, and that these two paths have 
been described as INDEPENDENT paths. In short, in order 
to acquire the Equability of Reason which is the most 
important factor in the Karma-Yoga, one must acquire the 




CONTINUITY OF GHAPTBIRS OF THE G[TA 651 


KNOWLB^DGE of the all-pervasive form of the Paramesvara, 
whether such Knowledge is acquired by the worship of the 
Perceptible, or of the Imperceptible; and there is no distinction 
between the two except that of facility. It must, therefore, 
be borne in mind that this is the sum and substance of the 
whole of this argument; and that the whole of the portion of 
the Gita from the seventh to the seventeenth chanter has been 
given only one name in the Gita, namely, ^ jnar.a~vijnana ’ or 
‘adhyafinu’. 

After the physical eyes of Arjuna had get the actual 
experience that the l^araniesvara occupies and pervades the 
whole of the BRAHMANDA (Cosmos), that it to say, the 
perishable and the imperishable universe, by ha nng seen the 
Cosmic Form of the Paramesvara, the Blessed Lord explains, 
in the THfRTEENTti CHAPTER, the doctrine of the Body 
and the Atman, namely, that the .same Paramesvarfi occupies the 
PINDA (Body), that is to say, the Body of man, or the ksetra, 
in the shape of the Atman ; and that the Knowledge of this 
Atman, that is to say, of this/c.svtrayaa, is also the Knowledge 
of the Paramesvara. Having first described the Paramatman, 
that is, the Parahrahman, on the authority of the Upanisads 
by the woi'ds “anadi. mat para/'n hraliMa” etc., it i.s shown 
later on that the .same subject-matter of tlu Body and 
the Atman has been included in the Sarnkhyt. exposition 
of ‘PrakHi’ (Matter) and ‘Purusa’ (Spirit); and it s ultimately 
said that lie who Realises the difference between PrakRi 
and Ihirusa, and Realises the all-pervading Paramatman, 
with ‘Jndtia-^'uki^u (Spiritual eyes) is RELEASED. But even 
in this, the thread of .Action has been kept in the texture, by 
saying, “everything is done by Matter (prukr'i), and the 
Atman is not the doer, and by Realising this, Ac tion (karma) 
does not create bondage” (13. 30); and the thread of Devotion 
is kept in the texture, by saying '‘(Ihuunenatmoni pahjanfi" 
(13. 24), (i. e., “see the Atman by meditation”—Trans.). In 
the FOURTElf.NTH CHAPTER, the subject of this Jhana is 
continued, and there is a description as to how, although there 
is only one Atman or Paramesvara, diversity arises in the world 
as a result of the difference of the saliva, rajas and lamas con¬ 
stituents of Prakrti, according to Bamkhya philoscphy; and it 



652 


GlTA-RAHASYA OR KARMA-YOGA 


is stated that, he who realises that these are the activities of 
Matter (prakrti), and that he is not the doer, and who serves the 
Paramesvara by Devotion, is the true Released and Trigunatita 
(beyond the three constituents); and in reply to the question 
of Arjuna, the state of the Trigunatita is described in the end 
in the same way as was the state of Sthitaprajila and the 
Devotee. In the FIFTEENTH CHAPTER, there is in the 
beginning a reference to the description of the Parame.svara as 
a Tree, which is to be found in Smrti texts, and it is stated that 
what is called the‘unfoldment of Prakrti’ in Samkhya philo¬ 
sophy is nothing else but that Pipal {asvattha) Tree; and at the 
end, Arjuna is told that by worshipping the Purusottama (the 
Absolute punim ), Who is beyond the Perishable and the 
Imperishable, man is gradually Released; and that Arjuna 
should do the same thing. In the SIXTEENTH CHAPTER, 
it is said that men ai-e divided into those possessing Divine 
wealth and those possessing ungodly wealth, in the same way 
as there arises diversity in the world as a result of the different 
constituents of Matter {prakrti ); and there is a description of 
how they act respectively (what their Karma is), and what 
goal is ultimately respectively reached by them. The 
SEVENTEENTH CHAPTER contains an Exposition, in reply 
to a question of Arjuna, of how the diversity resulting from 
the different constituents of three-constituented Prakrti is also 
to be seen in devotion, charitable gifts, sacrificial ritual, 
austerity etc,; and in the end, the word ‘tat’ in ‘Om-Tat-Sat’, 
the symbol of the Brahman, ha.s been explained as meaning 
‘Action performed desirelossly’; and‘sa^ as meaning‘Action, 
which, though good, has been performed desirefully’; and it is 
explained that this common Symbol of the Brahman also 
supports the Path of Karjua-Yoga. In short, the summary 
of these eleven chapters is, that there is only one Paramesvara 
in the world, whether one Realises Him by seeing His Cosmic 
Form or by one’s Spiritual eyes ; that He is the Atman in the 
Body, as also the Imperishable within the Perishable universe; 
that He pervades the visible world, and is also outside or 
beyond that world; that although He is One, one comes across 
diversity or difference in the visible world as a result of the 
difference in the constituents of Prakrti; that as a result of this 






C()NT[NUITY OF CHAPTERS OF THE G ITA 


(553 


Illusion (Maya) or of this dilfereiice in the constituents of 
Matter, there are many differences or divisions in Knowledge, 
Faith, Austerity, Sacrificial Ritual, Steadiness, C rarity, as also 
amonghnen; and that, man should Realise the Unity in this 
-diversity and should equabilise and steady hir Reason by 
worshipping that One and Permanent Priirciple—whether that 
worship is of a perceptible object or of an imperceptible object 
—and should with such desireless, mltnika, or equable Reason, 
perform all the activities which befall him according to his 
status in life, as mere duties and nothing more. As I have 
exliaustiveiy dealt with this jnana-tdjnam ir the former 
chapters of this book, that is, of this Gita-Rahasy a, I have not 
given a more exhaustive summary of the eleven chapters—from 
the seventh to the seventeenth chapters—in this ol aptcr. As my 
present objftct is only to consider the continuit;'' between the 
various chapters of the Gita, I have given here only that 
portion which is necessary for that purpose. 

In as much as the Reason is considered superior to the Action 
in the Karma-Yoga, the Blessed Lord has started by explain¬ 
ing to Arjuna what is meant by Jiiana-Vijhana. that is, the 
Realisation of the unity of the Atman in all ersated beings, 
or the all-pm'vasiveness of the Parame.svara, which Realisation) 
is necessary for making the Reason ])uro and Equ.iblo; and He 
has so far explained how this Knowledge is impressed on the 
heart us a result of the worship of tlie Perceptible or the Im¬ 
perceptible, according to one’s intellectual capacity; and how 
the Reason acquires stability and equability, and Release is 
thereby reached without abandoning Action. This .subject- 
matter has been considered in the light of the Perishable and 
the Imperishable and of the Body and the Atman Neverthe¬ 
less, the Blessed Lord has said that after the Reasoi; has become 
equable in this way, it is better to ])erform Actio i, while life 
lasts, for the benefit of the world, and giving up the Hope of 
Fruit (phairmi), rather than abandoning Action (Gi. 5. :J ). 
Therefore, the stage of Asceticism described in tlie Smrti texts 
finds no place in the Karma-Yoga; and as Arjuna felt a doubt 
that there was likely to be a conflict between this K'arma-Yoga 
and the Manu Smrti and other Sinrti texts, he las, in the 
-commencement of the EIGHTEENTH CHAPTEB, asked the 



654 


GITA-RAHASYA OB KARMA-YOGA^ 


Blessed Lord for an explanation of the difference between/ 
Tyaga (Abandonment) and Samnyasa (Renunciation).' To this 
the Blessed Lord has replied that as the etymological meaning 
of the word ‘ Samnyasa ’ is ‘ to leave,’ and as the Hope of Fruit 
is left in the Karma-Yoga, though Karma is not left, Karma- 
Yoga is essentially a‘Samnyasa’; because, although one does 
not take up the robes of a mendicant and go about begging in 
the Karma-Yoga, yet, the essence of Samnyasa (Renunciation)' 
or Vairagya (indifference to the world), according to the 
Smrtis, is making the mind desireless; and that essence is to be 
found in the Path of Karma-Yoga. Here, however, another 
doubt arises, namely; when the Hope of Fruit has been 
abandoned, the hope of acquiring heaven also does not remain ; 
and therefore, there does not remain any more the necessity of 
performing the sacrificial ritual etc., which has been enjoined 
by the Srutis. Therefore, the Blessed Lord has definitely 
advised that in as much as these Actions have the effect of 
purifying the Mind, one must perform them along with other 
Actions, though with a desiroless frame of mind, and so keep 
going the cycle of sacrificial ritual for universal benefit. When, 
in this way all the questions of Arjuna had been answered, the 
Blessed Lord has dealt with the mttoika, rajam and tarnasa 
divisions into which all of the following things, namely. 
Knowledge, Action, Doer, Reason, Steadiness, and Happiness 
fall according to the different constituents of Matter, and He 
has in this way finished the subject-matter of the diversity of 
these constituents. Then, after having explained that out of 
these, the desireless Action, the desireless Doer, the unattached 
Reason (anasakta-buddlu), the happiness arising out of Non- 
Attachment and the Realisation of the Unity of the Atman, 
arising out of the Realisation of the principle of “ avibhalda/'n 
vibhaJdem” (i. e., “ the unity in the diversity”—Trans.) are 
saUmka, and most excellent, the Blessed Lord has justified the 
arrangement of the four castes on the basis of the same 
principle, and said that man becomes Accomplished {krtakrtya) 
in this world, and acquires Peace and Release only by con¬ 
tinually performing as duties and desirelessly, all the various 
Actions, which befall him according to the arrangement of the 
four castes; and He has further explained to Arjuna that as■ 



CONTINUITY OF CHAPTERS OF THE GlTA 655 


Action is an inherent quality of Matter ( pnikrli ), and one 
cannot escape it, even if one wants to abandon it, he should 
surrender himself to the Paramesvara believing that He is the 
doer as also the one Who causes things to be done, and perform 
all Actions dosirelessly; that the Blessed Lord is that 
Pararaesvar I; and that Arjiina should put faith in Him and 
worship Him, and He would redeem him from all sins. And 
having in tiiis way, definitely prescribed the Path of Devotion, 
the Blessed imrd brings to a close tlie Activistic ( omurflipara ) 
religion mentioned in the Gita, In short, the advice in the 
Gita .starts with the consideration of the two paths of Samkhya 
and Karma-Yoga, which had been brought into vogue by 
learned peoi<le after deeply meditating on worldly life and the 
life after death ; and the Path of Karma-Yoga whic h has been 
declared to lie the superior one of the two, has also leen finally 
advocatvid in thii eigliteentli chapter, that is, at Ihe end of the 
Gita, after having described in the sixth chapter, tie Patahjala- 
Yoga necessary for making it (Karma-Yoga) successful, and 
described in the snbseciuent eleven chapters the means ividhi), 
by which Release is ultimateljr obtained as i result of 
the Aci|uisition of the Knowledge of the Paramesvara 
while following it, by giving an exhaustive description of 
the Knowledge relating to the Body (p'mla) and the 
Cosmos (/lyv/./imr/ndn )■ And it was only when Arjuna had 
heard this justification made by the Blessed Jjord, of the 
excellence of this Yoga or ‘Device’ of periorming all 
Actions, for universal benefit, according to oiie’j own status 
in life, loo ring upon them as duties merely, and with the 
idea of dedicating them to the Paramesvara, wi'.hout in any 
way thereby prejudicing the benefit of the Atman in the shape 
of Release, that he gav(! up the idea of renouncing the world and 
becoming a inendicant ; and by his own free wilH-that is, not 
because tbo 'Ble.ssed Lord had said so, but because le had fully 
understood the science of the Doable and the h ot-Doable— 
prepared himself for the fight. 'I’he Gita was cc mmenced to 
be preached for the purpose of inducing Arjuna to fight, and 
the Gita alsci ends in tfie same way (Gi. 18, 73). 

Prom the continuity of the eighteen chapters of the Gita 
which has been mentioned above, it will be seen that the Gita 



656 


gIta-eahasya or karma-yoga 


is not a pot-piMrri of three independent Nisthas of Action; 
Devotion, and Spiritual Knowledge, nor a blanket made up 
by sewing together pieces of linen, silk, and embroidery ; but 
that this very fine and costly texture in the shape of the Gita, 
which bears the name of ‘Karma-Yoga’, has been woven from 
beginning to end with “a mind, which was fully engrossed 
in Yoga”, after the threads of cotton, silk and embroidery had 
been properly placed in their respective places. It is true that 
this method of exposition is somewhat looser than a strictly 
scientific method, because it is catechismal; but when one 
realises that by such a conversational exposition, the l)arren- 
ness of a scientific exposition has been obviated, and that the 
Gita has become replete with easine.ss and affectionateness, no 
one will be ever so little sorry, that the insipid block system 
of ‘reason ’ and ‘ conclusion ’ followed in a scientific exposition, 
which appeals only to tho intelligence, has been avoided. It 
will likewise be evident from tho above disquisition, that 
though the system of exposition followed in the Gita is con¬ 
versational, that is, Pauranic, yet, there is no difficulty on 
that account in tho way of applying to it all the critical tests 
of the Mlmamsa school, and thereby drawing the conclusion of 
the Gita. If one considers the COMMENCEMENT of the Gita, 
it will be seen that the Gita has been enunciated with the idea of 
preaching the Activistic Path of Karma-Yoga, with tho help of 
the Vedanta-Sastra, to Arjuna, who had come out to fight accord¬ 
ing to the religion of a warrior, after he had got involved in the 
discrimination between the Moral and the Immoral; and it 
has been shown by me already in the first chapter, that the 
CiDNCLUSION {ujxi.whhara) and the result (pluilaj of the 
Gita is also to the same effect, that is to say, Activistic. I 
have shown that the advice given in the Gita to Arjuna 
contains at least a dozen times in so many words, and 
indirectly innumerable times, the injunction “Fight,” that is, 
“perform Action” (this is, abhyasa ); and as there is no work in 
Sanskrit literature other than the Gita which preaches Karma- 
Yoga (this is, apurvatii), the fact that the Gita supports the 
Karma-Yoga is all the more firmly established by the two 
Mlmamsa tests of ABHYASA and APUKVATA. Out of the 
various tests prescribed by the Mlmamsa school for deterrain- 






CONTINUITY OF CHAPTERS OF THE GtTA 


657' 


ing the ccmcluHion of a book, only two remain to be considered 
with reference to the Gita, namely, ARTMAVADA and 
UPAPjIlTTL With reference to tliein, it has become qnite 
clear from the individual consideration of thesu questions in 
the various previous chapters, as also from thi! reference to 
the arrangement of tlic chapters of the Gita made in this 
chapter, thut ‘Karma-Yoga’ is the only .subject which has been 
dealt with in the Gita. Therefore, even if all the tests laid 
down by tlie Mlmaiiisa school for diTerniining the import of a 
book are apidied to the Git.a, it beootiie.s clear beyond all doubt, 
that Ktirnu -Yoga lias’cd on Spiritual Knowledge, in wliicli the 
highest place i^ given to Devotion, is the subject-matter dealt 
with iu the Gltb There is also no douht that all other imports 
whicli have been ascriijod to the Gita are merely doctrine¬ 
supporting ; hut although these alleged imports are doctrine- 
supporting. yet. unless I explain how it was possible to place 
these doctrine-.supporting interpretations on the Gita—and 
especially the one in support of S.onnyasa (Roi nneiation.)— 
the discussion of those doclrine-.supporting interpretations is 
not exluivisted. I will, therefore, lirieliy oonsidoi how it was 
possible for these doctrine-supporting commentators to interpret 
the Gltil its being in support of Haihnyasa, and finish this 
chapter, 

Onr philsophers have laid dow'ii the doctrine that a.s man i.s 
a rational animal, his principal duty or goal \ paramrtha) 
is to disia.u'ti the essential principle underlying the Body and 
the Cosmo.s; and this is wluit is known as “Release” in 
religion. Nevertheless, having regard to the u.suai activities 
of the visible world, it has been laid down by our ilastras, that 
this goal of mankind is four-fold, tliat is, it condsts of duty 
{dharrna), wealtU {<trtlui), desire {kdiiKi), and Releise (mo/c.sa). 
As has been mentioned before, the word ‘dharma (duty) is to 
be understood hero as meaning worldly, social, and moral 
duty. When the goal of mankind lias in this way been con¬ 
sidered to he four-fold, the que,stion whether thesi four parts 
of it ari;' or are not mutually iiroinotive, naturally ari,ses. 
Althougli there may fie a verbal difference about the doctrine 
that there is no Release unless a man has acquired the 
KNOWKEDGE of that Principle which pervades both the 



€58 


GiTA-RAHASyA OR KARMA-YOGA 


Body and the Cosmos, by whatever means such Knowledge 
has been acquired, yet, such difference of opinion is not funda¬ 
mental. At any rate, this doctrine has been adopted into the 
Gita religion. The Gita also fully accepts the doctrine that if 
one wishes to acquire the two parts, namely, ‘wealth’ and 
‘desire’, of that goal, that has to be done according to moral 
principles. The only thing, therefore, which remains, is to 
decide the mutual relationship between dharrna (that is, the 
worldly duties pertaining to the four castes), and Release. All 
shades of opinion accept the position that there can be no 
Release unless the Mind bas been first purified by means 

of dharrna. A considerable amount of time is taken up in this 
purification of the Mind {villa). Therefore, even considering 
the matter from the point of view of Release, it follows that 
worldly life has got to be gone through consistently with 
'dharrna' in the period of time before the purification of the 
Mind (Manu. 6, 35-37). ‘Saihnyasa’ means ‘giving up’, and 
if a man has not successfully led his worldly life with 
the help of ‘dharinu', what has he to give up ? or, in other 
words, how can that ‘hapless fellow’ {karantu) who cannot 
properly attend to his worldly life {prapahca), properly attend 
to the highest benefit { ixtramdiiliu)'I, (Dasa. 12. 1. 1-10 
and 12. 8. 21-31). Because, whether the object relates to 
this worldly life or to the highest benefit, hard labour, 
firmness of mind, fortitude, and other similar qualities are 
required for achieving it; and it is (piite clear that a man who 
does not possess these qualities will not be able to achieve any 
goal whatsoever. But though some persons accept this 
position, yet, they say that when a man ha.s acquired the 
Knowledge of the Atman by continued effort and by control of 
the mind, he begins to look upon all worldly activities in the 
shape of the enjoyment of the objects of pleasure as insipid; 
and, just as a serpent casts off the skin which has become 
useless to it, so also does the Jnanin give up all worldly objects 
of pleasure, and become steeped in the contemplation of the 
form of the Paramesvara (Br. 4. 4. 7). As this path of 
loading one’s life gives the highest importance to Spiritual 
Knowledge ( jhana ) after the abandonment of worldly affairs, 
it is called the Path of Knowledge or the Samkhya Path; or, 








CONTINUITY OF CHAPTERS OF THE GITA 


659 


because it consists of the abandonment of all worldly affairs, 
it is called the Path of Renunciation (saninyilm). But the 
Gita religion says to the contrary, that not only is dharma 
necessary for the purification of the Mind, but it is necessary 
to continue doing the same Actions, merely as duties, and as 
part of one’s religion, and desirelessly, and for the good of 
others, evi;n afterwards, that is, after the purification of the 
Mind, altliough worldly activities in the shape of enjoyment 
of objects of pleasure may become unnecessary for one’s own 
benefit. If a .Inanin does not do so, there will remain nobody 
who can serve as an example for others, and the world will 
come to an end. No one can escape Action ia this world of 
Action, and if the Mind (bmldtU) has become desireless, no 
action which is performed obstructs Release, 'therefore, it is 
the duty also of Juanins, not to give up worldly life, but 
to continue worldly activities, so long as lile lasts, with 
an apathetic frame of mind, 'rhis i)ath of lead ng one’s life 
which has been prcaclied in the Gita is known as the Path 
of Karma (Kerma-nistha) or Kiirma-Yoga. But although the 
Karma-Ycga has in this way heeii proved to be the most 
cxcelhmt way of loading one’s life in the Gita, it has nowhere 
vilified the Path of Renunciation, hut has on the other hand 
stated that it is productive of Release. And it 's quite clear, 
that the Blessed Lord could not condemn as unacceptable that 
path which was followed in the commencement cf the world by 
Sanatkumara and others, and later on by Suka, Yajhavalkya 
and others. (lonsidering worldly affairs as sweet or as insipid, 
depends to a certain extent on a man’s inherent nature, 
resulting from the previous prdnihdlKi (commenced) Karma; 
and it has lieen stated before tliat in .spite of a man’s having 
acquired Knowledge, he cannot escape sulfering for that 
Karma wliich is prdnihdha. 'I'herefore, if a Jf anin is filled 
with a sincere disgust for worldly life and renounces the 
world, as ,i result of such an inherent nature, which results 
from his prdrabdJia karma, there is no sense in finding fault 
with him. Tlie perfect man (niddha) whose Reason has become 
unattached {nihsanga) and pure, as a result of the Realisation of 
the Atman, at least places before the eyes of people, in his own 
dorm, an example of the highest purity of human intelligence, 




660 


GITA-RABASYA or karma-yoga 


and of the immensity of human strength involved in keeping' 
under control the most uncontrollable mental emotions which are' 
naturally entranced by objecte of pleasure, if he does nothing 
else ; and such a performance is no mean performance from the 
point of view of universal welfare {lokasamgraha). ThiS' 
accounts for the respect in the public mind for the Path of 
Renunciation ; and that reason has also been accepted by the 
Gita from the point of view of Release. But when one does 
not merely consider ‘ inherent nature ’ or ‘ prarahdha karma \ 
but considers scientifically how a Jnrinin, who has acquired 
complete Bheedom of the Atman, should thereafter lead his life 
in the world of Action, the Path of the Abandonment of 
Action is seen to be inferior in merit; and one has to draw the 
conclusion drawn by the Gita, that the Path of Rarma-Voga 
followed in the commencement of the world by Marici and 
others and later on by Janaka and others, must be follovred by 
Jnanins in the world, for universal welfare. Because, it now 
logically follows that Jnanins must perform the work of 
keeping going the universe which has been created by the 
Paramesvara; and as in this Path of Karma-Yoga, the power 
of Jhana is added to the power of Karma without any conflict, 
it is seen to be superior to the pure Saihkhya Path. 

When one considers what the main difference between the 
two paths of Saihkhya and Karma-Yoga is, we arrive at 
the equation SAMKHYA + NISKAMA-KARMA = KARMA- 
YOGA ; and, as has been stated by Vaisampayana, considera¬ 
tion of the Saihkhya-Nistha is easily included in the considera¬ 
tion of the Activistic Karma-Yoga advocated by the Gita (Ma. 
Bha. San, 34b. 53); and that is how the commentators on the 
Gita who support the Path of Renunciation have found it easy 
to claim that the Gita advocates the Samkhya or the Saihnyasa 
Path. If one neglects those stanzas in the Gita which prove 
that Action is meritorious and which preach Action ; or, if one 
passes a remark on one’s own responsibility that they are 
merely an ‘ arthavada that is, incidentally laudatory ; or, if 
by some other device the factor of ni.^kama-kartna (Desireless 
Action) is subtracted from the abovementioned equation, the 
same equation is converted into Samkhya = Karma-Yoga; and 
it becomes easy to say that the Gita supports the Samkhya 






Continuity of chapters of the ctta 


661 


Path. But, such interpretations are totally inconsistent with 
the beginning fupakraim) and the conclusion (upcmi/hhurn) of 
the Gita; and saying that Karina-Yoga is inferior and that 
Saihkliya is the chief subject-matter of exposU'on in the Gita 
is, as I have clearly shown in many places in this book, as 
unreasonable as calling the owner of a house a guest and 
calling tiie guest the owner ; and, in the course of my exposi¬ 
tion, 1 have also refuted the llieories that only Vedanta, or 
only Deve tion, or only Patahjala-Voga, has been advocated by 
the Gitii. What is there which cannot bo found in the Gita V 
The Gita hat adopted something or other frori the various 
important paths prescribed in tlie Vedic religion for obtaining 
Release; and even then, the true my,stic impc rt of the Gita 
is sometliing whicli is quite different from sll the paths 
according to the rule h/nila!>lirii tni at. hhulof-'t/o” ( Gi. 9. 5 ), 
(that is, “supports all created thing.s, and yet is not in them” 
—Trans.). Tire doctrine tliat there is no Rcleaso if there is 
no Knowledge, which pertains to the Path of Renunciation, 
that is, t ) tlie Upanisads, is acceptable to the Gita; but, as 
that [iropusition has been ta,cked on to the jiroposition of 
Desirrless Actioa, the Bhagavata doctrine in the Gita easily 
include.s die Path of Asceticism. Nevertheless, instead of 
interpreting the wovdn -satnnudsu^ or 'mirar/ipi' ns meaning the 
Abandonment of Action, the Gitii says that true vairagya 
(Abandon nent) or true sanimjam (Renunciation) lies in the 
Abanrlonment of the Hope of Fruit, and lays down the ultimate 
doctrine- that the Dosireless Karma-Yoga is better than the 
Karma-Ssriiiiyasa of the IJpanisads. The Gita also accepts the 
doctrine of ttie orthodox Mimilihsa school thar if sacrilicial 
ritual is obser ved merely for the purpose of thesacrihee, it does 
not create bondage. But, if the word‘Yajfia’(sacrifice) is taken 
in a comprehensive meaning, all Actions pi-rforrnod after 
abandoning the Hope of Fruit arc a great ‘Yujha’ in them¬ 
selves: and tlie Gita has, by taking that comprehensive moaning, 
amplified that doctrine by saying that pirforming all 
Actions according to the duties enjoined on t le four castes, 
continually, and desirelessly, is the highest duty of mankind. 
The Gita has considered the Bamkhya theory regarding tlie 
creation of the world a.s superior to the U])anisad theory ; 



•663 


GlTA-RAHASYA OR KARMA-YOGA 


nevertheless, the Gita has not stopped with Matter (prakrti) 
and Spirit (purtim) according to Sarhkhya philosophy, hut 
has taken the chain of the creation of the universe right to 
the eternal Paramatman of the Upanisads. The Gita has also 
described the doctrine (vidhi) of the Narayanlya or Bhagavata 
religion consisting of the worship of Vasudeva, namely, that the 
Knowledge of the Absolute Self should be acquired by Faith 
and Devotion, as it is more difficult to acquire it by Intelligence. 
But, even in this matter the Gita does not merely copy the 
Bhagavata religion; and, discarding the theory of the 
Bhagavata religion regarding the birth of the Personal Self 
(Jiva) from Vasudeva, as has been done in the Vedanta-Sutras, 
it has completely harmonised the doctrines of the Bhagavata 
religion relating to Devotion with the doctrines of the 
Upanisads relating to the Body and the Atman. The only 
remaining Path of Release is the Patahjala-Yoga, But, 
although the Gita does not say that the Patahjala-Yoga is the 
principal duty of man, yet, since the control of the organs is 
necessary for making the Reason equable, the Gita to that 
extent recommends the practices of yanui, (religious observance) 
ral/ama (restraint of the Mind), amna (bodily postures), etc., 
mentioned in the Patahjala-Yoga. In short, all the various 
means mentioned in the Vedic religion for obtaining Release 
have been to some extent or other referred to and prescribed in 
the Gita, as occasion arose, in considering the Karma-Yoga in 
all its bearings. If all these injunctions are considered 
independent of each other, there arise inconsistencies ; and it 
appe ars that the various doctrines mentioned in the Gita are 
mutually contradictory; and this impression is fortified by 
the doctrine-supporting commentaries of various commentators; 
but, when one lays down the proposition, as has been done by 
me, that the principal object of the Gita is to harmonise 
Spiritual Knowledge with Devotion, and to support the Karma- 
Yoga on that basis, all these apparent inconsistencies 
disappear; and one cannot but admire the super-human wisdom 
of the Gita in bringing about a fusion between Spiritual 
Knowledge, Devotion, and Karma-Yoga in a most comprehen¬ 
sive way. Just as the form of the Ganges does not change 
whatever the number of rivers which come and join it, so also 




CONTINUITY OF CHAPTERS OF THE (HTA 


663 


is the case with the Gita. Whatever it may contain, the 
Karma-Yoga ultimately remains the principal subject-matter 
of the Gita, But, though the Karma-Yogs, is thus the 
principal subject of the Gita, yet, as the essence of the 
philosophy of Release has been beautifully described in it^ 
side by side with the Philosophy of Action, the Blessed Lord 
has said tx) Arjuna, in the beginning of the Anaglta, that this 
Gita religion, which was propounded to enable him to 
properly di.scriminate between the Doable and ttie Not-Doable 
is fully competent to place the Brahman within one’s reach— 
“sain ’Iharmah supanjUpto brahmnnah padavedane ” (Ma,. Bha, 
Asva. 16. 12); and that tho.se who follow this path do not need 
any other arduous worship for attaining Release. I fully 
realise that this .statement will not be appreciated by people 
who advocate the Path of Renunciation and who maintain that 
Release is impossible unless all Action is abandcned ; but there 
is no help for that. Not only does the Gita not support the 
Path of Samnyaaa or any other path of reniinidation, but, I 
will go f arther and say that the Gita has hesn preached in 
order to satisfactorily explain, from the point of view of the 
Knowledge of the Brahman, why Action stiould not be 
abandoned nven after the Acquisition of Knowlec ge. Therefore, 
the followers of the Path of Renunciation must remain 
satisfied with the numerous Vedic treatises which support the 
Path of Saihnyasa, instead of attempting to foist Samnyasa on 
the Gita, Or, just as the Blessed Lord has without pride 
referred to the Path of Renunciation in the Gita as leading to 
Release, so also and with the same equable frame of mind, 
should the followers of Saihkhya philosophy say ; “as the 
Paramesvara intends the world to go on, and as He from time 
to time takes incarnations for that purpose, the Path of 
carrying on the activities of worldly life, witli a desireless 
frame of mind, even after the Acquisition of Knowledge, which 
has been preached by the Blessed Ijord in the Gita, is the 
most proper path to be followed in the Kali-yuga 








CHAPTER XV. 

CONCLUSION. 

( UPASAMHARA) 

fasmat sarvasu kah>m mam aiiasmara yudhija ca 

GiTA 8, 7. 

Whether one considers the continuity of the various 
chapters of the Gita, or analyses all the various subject-matters 
dealt with in it according to the logical method of the 
Mimarhsa school, it follows clearly that (i) the various 
interpretations, which have been put on the Gita by doctrine- 
supporting commentators, who have looked upon the Karma- 
Yoga as inferior, are not correct; and that (ii) harmonising the 
Monistic ( udvaila ) Vedanta of the Upanisads with the 
Philosophy of Devotion, and in that way accounting for the 
mode of life of great and noble people, or, to mention the 
matter briefly, Karma-Yoga fused with Spiritual Knowledge 
and Devotion, is the true purpose of the Gita. Although 
performing the ritual prescribed in the Srutis and the Smrtis 
throughout life, as directed by the Mirnamsa, may be following 
the injunctions of the Sastras, yet, this mechanical ritual, 
which is devoid of Spiritual Knowledge, can never satisfy an 
intelligent person ; and if one considers the philosophy of the 
Upanisads, not only is it difficult to grasp for people of ordinary 
intelligence, as it is based purely on Reason, but the Saihnyasa 
or Renunciation, advocated by it, conflicts with universal 
benefit ( lokasamyraha ). Therefore, the Blessed Lord has 
preached in the Gita the philosophy of life-long Dosiroless 
Action, based on Spiritual Knowledge, and in which the 
highest importance is given to Devotion, so as to effect a 
fusion between Intelligence (Jha.ua), Love (Devotion), and 
physical capacity {kartrtm), and so as to enable the ordinary 
affairs of the world to be carried on satisfactorily, without 
prejudicing Release; and it follows from the Commencement 
(umkrnmn) and the Conclusion (upammhdra) of the Gita, that this 
4- at jll tijUfs, rciiieiuber mo and fight. The word 

‘fight’ has been used having regard to the occasion ; but it does not 
mean only ‘fight’, but must bo taken to mean ‘perform all Actions 
pertaining to your status in life’. 



CONCLUyiON. 


665 


advice covera the entire sum and substance of the philosophy 
of the Doable and the Not-Doablo, and that the disquisition on 
the Doable and the Not-Doablu was the true reason for 
lU'eaching this religion to Arjuna. Which Acticn is righteous, 
meritorious, just, or beneficial, and which, on the other hand, is 
unrigliteous, improper, unjust or harmful, can ha explained in 
two ways. The one way is not to explain the inherent reason 
or the justification for the advice, hut merely to say that if a 
particular thing is done in a particular vmv, it is right, 
and if done in another particular way, it is wrong. 
Injunctions like *Do not cause deatli’, ‘Do not steal’, ‘Speak the 
truth’ (xaiiiam vada), Act righteously {dharirum ca -a) etc. are of 
this kind, Tliese injunctions or courses of conduct are definitely 
laid down in the Manu-Suuti, and other Sinrtis, and in the 
Dpanisads. Ilut a.s man is a rational animal, he is not 
satisfied with such didactic injunctions, and he naturally feels a 
desire to understand the true reason why they wej’e laid down ; 
and lie naturally thinks over and finds out the eternal and 
fundamental principle at the hottom of these rules of conduct, 
floing to the bottom of worldly morality in thi.s way, and 
finding out the underlying fundamental principles, is the 
purpose of PHILOSOPHY (Sa.stra); and merely putting 
together and mentioning the rules, is known xs AGADA- 
SAMCf RA.HA. The code of rules of conduct (ucmi-miagralia) 
relating to the Path of Action is to be found in the Smrti 
texts; and the Dhagavadgita contains a conversational or 
Pauranika, hnt philosophical {sdul/ii/a) disquisition on the 
fundamental principles of that code. Therefor?, it is more 
proper to say that the subject-matter of exposition in the Gita 
is THlii SGj.KNCE Gb KAltMA- YOGA (lCarma-iroga-Sa.stra), 
instead of saying that it is KARMA-YOGA; and this word, 
that is, SCILNCL OF YOGA (Yoga-Sastva) has been used in 
the Gita in the concluding portion of every chapter showing 
the end of the chapter. This Sciemie of Karma Yoga in the 
Gita has been called the Science of Proper Conduct {mdtxiiiana), 
the Science of Good Behaviour {saduedra), P lilosophy of 
Etlxics, Critique of Ethics, Elements of Ethics, t le Science of 
Duty, the Discernment of Right and Wrong, or t ie Science of 
Sociology, hy Western philosojihers, who either do not believe 



666 


GiTA-RAHASYA OB KARMA-YOGA 


in the life after death, or consider it as inferior. These are- 
raerely Materialistic names; and their way of criticising is 
also a purely Materialistic way. Therefore, the majority of 
the persons who have read the books of such Western writers 
think that Morality or Ethics has not been dealt with in any 
work in Sanskrit literature. The most profound philosophy in 
India is the Vedanta philosophy; and if one considers our 
modern Vedanta works, they are seen to be principally 
indifferent about worldly affairs. Then, how can we find in 
them any consideration of Karma-Yoga or of Ethics? This 
subject-matter cannot be dealt with in books on Grammar, or 
on Logic ; and in the Smrti texts, one cannot find anything more 
than a code of religious precepts. Therefore, it is the common 
belief of many persons, that our ancient writers, being steeped 
in the deep contemplation of Release, have forgotten to deal 
with the subject-matter of Morality or Ethics. This mis¬ 
understanding will be removed if one carefully considers the 
Mahabharata or the Gita. But, as the Mahabharata is a very 
extensive work, it is very difficult to road the whole of it and 
to give careful thought to the subject-matter in it; and 
although the Gita is small, yet, there is a strong belief, that it 
deals only with the question of Release, on account of the 
doctrine-supporting commentaries on it. But no one has 
taken the trouble to think that the Path of Samnyasa and the 
Path of Karma-Yoga were both in vogue in India from Vedic 
times; that the numbers following the Path of Karma-Yoga 
were a thousand times greater than of those following the Path 
of Samnyasa; and that the great and noble persons, whose 
lives have been described in the Puraiias, were supporters of 
Karma-Yoga. Then, was not even one of these persons 
inclined to vindicate the Path of Karma-Yoga followed by 
him ? If it is said that there are no work:; on Karma-Yoga,, 
because all Spiritual Knowledge is confined to the Brahmin 
caste, and the Vedantist Brahmins are apathetic towards 
Action, that statement too would be incorrect. Because, in 
the times of the Upanisads, and also afterwards, there were 
Jnanins like Janaka and Sri Krsna among the Ksatriyas; and 
even learned Brahmins like Vyasa, have written the biogra¬ 
phies of great Ksatriyas. In writing these biographies, would, 




CONCLUSION 


667 


it not be necessary to explain the key-note of the character aneJ' 
lives 31' those) menV This key-note was Karina-Yoga or the 
jjhilosophy of worleily life; and in order to explain this 
principle, subtle points of righteous i3r unrighteous conduct 
have boon dealt witli in several places in the Mahabharata, 
and ultimately the Oita has dealt with tho?io principles of 
EthiC', which have been responsible for the maintenance of 
the world, consistently with the view-point of Felease, There 
are also many such instances in tlie other Puranas. But, as 
all other expositions on the subject turn pale by '.he side of the 
brilliaiice of the Glt;i, the Bhagavadgita has become the most 
imporlant work on the philosophy of Karma-'toga, I have 
dealt with tlie true nature of this Karma-Yoga ir the foregoing 
chapters. Yet, it cannot bo said that this exposition of the 
doctrine of the Gita is complete, unless one compares the 
ethical principles propounded hy Western pliil Dsophers with 
the fundiiniental spiritual principles of the Uoable and the 
Not-Doablo enunciated in the Gita. Inmaking this compari¬ 
son, it is also necessary to compare the PJiilosophy of the 
Absoh'to b('lf in the Kast with siudi philo.sopliy in tlie West. 
But tlie knowledge of the Absolute Self in t!i( Went has not 
gone mu(d beyond our knowledge. As this fact is commonly 
accepted, tlieve is not much of a necessity ti compare the 
Eastern metaphysical philosophy witli the Yhistern meta¬ 
physical iihilosophy ; " and the only thing which remains is 

the comparison of the Eastern with the Wostiirn science of 
Ethics or Karma-Yoga, which science according to many has 
not been expounded hy our philosophers. But:, ihe considera¬ 
tion of even this one .subject is so comprehensive that it will 
be necessary to write an independent treatise in order to 
deal with it exhaustively. Yet, as T did not consider it proper 

A comparisou of our Vedanta with Westej u Philosophy 
has been made by Prof. IXuisson in his book called ;ho Klemunts] of 
H'fdaji/ii/sic.s: and t the cud of the second edition of this book, thoro is 
printed the lecture delivered by Prof. Dens^eu before the Royal 
Asiatic Society at Boniba , when he had come to India in 1893, on 
the subject: “On the I’liilosophy of Vedanta”. Besides this, the 
work, The Rdigion and Philosophi/ of the Upani^adu, 3V'ritten on this 
subject by Prof. Deussen also deserves to be read. 



668 


GiTA-RAHASYA OR KARMA-YOGA 


to omit this matter altogether from this hook on that account, 
I have touched upon only the most salient and important points 
in that subject in this concluding chapter. 

As the words ‘ Righteousness ’ and ‘ Unrighteousness or 
‘ Morality ’ and ‘ Immorality can, strictly speaking, be 
applied only to the Actions of intelligent heings, it can be 
realised, after even a little consideration, that Morality does 
not rest only on Action, hut rests on Reason, This is what is 
meant by saying; “ d/iarmo hi tesam adhiko visemh”, i.e., 
“ knowledge of Right and Wrong is the specific quality of 
man, that is, of intelligent beings”. It is true that we refer 
to a hullook or to a river, as mischievous or terrible 
respectively, having regard to the effect their action or 
activity has on u.s; but if a bullock gives us a push, no one 
files a .suit against him ; and if a river gets flooded and crops 
are washed away, and thereby “ groat wrong to a great many 
persons ” is caused, no one on that account calls the river bad, 
or refers to it as a marauder. In answer to this position, 
many object: once it is admitted that the rules of Right and 
Wrong apply only to the affairs of men, what is the objection 
to considering the rightness or wrongness of the Action of 
men, merely from the point of view of the Action V But even 
this question is not difficult to answer. Because, even if one 
leaves a.side lifeless objects or animals born in the unen¬ 
lightened species of birds or beasts, and considers only the 
actions of human beings, yet, in as much as the wrongs 
committed by men in a moment of insanity or unknowingly, 
are considered forgivable by people, or even according to law, 
one has necessarily to consider, in the first instance, 
the Reason of the doer, that is to say. the motive with 
which he did the act, and whether or not he had realised 
the consequences of the act, when one is determining the 
righteousne.ss or the unrighteousness of the doer. It is not 
difficult for a rich man to give large suras of money in charity 
as he wishes. But although this his act may be ‘ good ’, 
yet, when one has to decide the true moral value of 
it, such value cannot be determined merely by considering 
the fact of this gift made in an off-hand way. One has to 
consider whether or not the Reason of that rich person was 





CONCLUSION 


669 


governed by religious faith (srafZf//tQ); and, though there may 
be no other evidence except this off-hand charitable gift for 
coming to a decision on that point, yet, the fac t remains that 
no one looks upon this gift as of the same moral value as 
another gift made by a person with religious faith; at any 
rate there is room for doubt. At the end of the Mahabharata, 
after the entire question of righteousness and unrighteousness 
has lieen dealt with, there is a story which very well brings 
out this position. In the Asvarnedha sacrifice {.jajria) made by 
Yudhisthira, when he ascended the throne, millions of people 
were satisfied, and began to sing his praises for the munificent 
gifts of food and other objects made by him. Then a lustrous 
.mungoo.se (m/cwla) came there and said to them ; “All your 
praises are useless. However great the Yajiia made by 
Yudhisthira may be, it cannot bo equal in merit to that 
sacrifice which was made for a guest in former days, in this 
\ ery Kuruksetra, by a poor Bralmnin, who lived by uUcIuiotIH, 
that is, by gleaning grain left in the fields, and who gave ail 
the Ha!til food, which was spread out before himself and his wife 
and children, to a hungry mendicant, who suddenly came to beg 
for alms, Just when they were about to start tc eat, notwith¬ 
standing that he and they bad been without food for many 
days’’. ( Ma. Bha. A.sva. 90) The mouth and half the body of 
this mungoose was of gold; and the reason given by him for 
saying that the merit of the Yajfia performed b/ Yudhisihira 
was less tliaii the merit acquired l)y tlie poor Brahmin, who 
had given one seer of mithi groin to a meniicant was as 
follows; “ I rolled about in the remnants of lood left over 
in the liouse of that Brahmiji after the mendicant had 
partaken of it, and on that account my mouth and 
half of my body ha.s become golden; but although I rolled 
about in the remnants of food left over after eating in the 
panda! erected by Yudhisthira for the Yajha, i.he rest of ray 
body has not become golden”. In thi.s case, if one sees only 
what leads to ‘the greatest good of the greatest number’, 
by taking into account only the external effects of the Action, 
one will have to come to the conclusion, that the merit of 
.satisfying one hundred thousand mendicants is a hundred 
thousand times more than the merit of satisfying one beggar. 




670 


GiTA-EAHASYA OR KAEMA-YOGA 


But, will this conclusion be correct, not from the point of 
view of religion merely, but even of morality ? Acquiring 
a large amount of wealth, or getting an opportunity of 
performing big acts for the benefit of others, does not depend 
merely on anybody’s virtuous conduct; and if one has to 
consider the small act performed by the poor Brahmin according 
to his means as of little ethical or religious merit, because 
it was not possible for him to perform a large Yajna for want 
of money, one will have to come to the conclusion that the 
poor need never entertain the hope of becoming religious or 
moral like the rich. According to the principle of Freedom 
of Will, keeping his mind pure was a matter within the 
control of the poor Brahmin; and if there is no doubt that 
his charitable instinct was as pure as that of Yudhisthira, then, 
notwithstanding the smallness of the act performed by him, 
the ethical merit of this Brahmin and of the small act 
performed by him, must be considered to be the same as that 
of Yudhisthira and of the magnificent Yajna performed by him. 
Nay; from the fact that ho made a self-sacrifice by making 
a gift of food in order to save the life of a mendicant, not¬ 
withstanding that he himself was poor and without food for 
many days, it follow.? that his Eoason was purer than that of 
Yudhisthira ; because, it is a universally accepted fact that 
purity of mind, like courage and other qualities, is truly 
proved only in times of adversity; and even Kant has, in the 
beginning of his book on Ethics, expressed an opinion that 
that man whose moral rectitude does not flinch even in times of 
adversity is the truly moral man. The same thing is conveyed 
by what wa.s .said by the mungoose. But the purity of the 
heart of Yudhisthira had been tested not only by the Yajna 
performed by him after he had ascended the throne, that is, 
in times of prosperity, but also before that, that is, on many 
trying occasions, in adverse circumstances, just as in the- 
case of the Brahmin ; and as the proposition of the writer of 
the Mahabharata was, that Yudhisthira was morally great, 
even according to the subtle law relating to righteous and' 
unrighteous conduct laid down above, he has called the 
mungoose a ‘reviler’. Still, from the statement in the Maha¬ 
bharata that that Brahmin attained the same final state whichi 




CONCLUSION 


671 


is reached by people who perform the Asvan edha Yajna, it 
follows that though the merit of the act of the Brahmin might 
not, in the opinion of the writer of the MahabhI.rata, have been 
greater than that of the Yajna of Yudhisthira, s et, he certainly 
looked upon the ethical or religions merit ofliothas at least 
the same Mvcn in ordinary life, we follow tlie same principle, 
and con.sider the moral merit of a millionaire gi dng a thousand 
rupees for a pious ol)ject, as the same as that of a poor man 
who givts one rupee by way of subscription, [t is likely that 
this i] lustration might ho considered -by scmo as new, on 
accMuiit )!’t U! use of the word ‘ .subscription ’. 1, therefore, say 
tliat iui tlio exposition of Morality and [maijrality made in 
the Mai,ahlirlrata, while the story of the mun joo.se was Vieing 
told, it i-3 said: 

sa/(i..sv((^«A'/<s i<it(u'n salasakUr dusapi ca \ 

dnibiful. upas ca yah suk/yTi. sarre. tulyuphat'nh ■iniTtUh ii 

( Ma. Bha. Alva. 90. 97 ), 

that is,"'.i man who owns a thousand giving a hui dred, a man who 
owns a liundred giving ten, or some one acoordiag to his ability 
giving only a drink of water, all tiieso (acts) are of the same 
merit, and equally henoficiar’; and the sanu is the purport 
conveyed l)y the sentence “pafni/it, puypti/n ph.dai'n toijinh etc. ” 
(Gi, 9. :l('i), (i. e.. “a leaf, a flower, a fruit, or even water”—Trans.), 
in the (lita. This principle has been adopted not only in our 
religion, but also iu the Christian religion. 'I’ue Lord Christ lias 
.said in .,>iie place that; “ For unto whorasoev'e ■ much is given, 

of him shall bo much required” (Luke. 12. if); and there is a 
stateniesit in another place iu the Bible, that one day, when 
the Lord Christ had gone to church and the work of collecting 
funds for charitable purposes was going on, He said : “Verily I 
say unto to you, that this poor widow hath cast more in, than all 
they, which have cast into the treasury” (Mark. 12. 43 and 44), 
on seeing an extremely poor widow giving both the pice which 
she had, in charity. This clearly proves that even the Lord 
Clirist had accepted the position that the merit of an act has to 
be determined by reference to the Reason of the doer; and that 
when the Reason of the doer is pure, even a small act is very 



672 


GiTA-RAHASYA OR KARMA-YOGA 


often of the same ethical merit as a larger act, If one considers 
the effect of the impurity of the Reason on the moral merit of 
an Action, in the opposite case, that is, when the Reason is not 
pure, it will be seen that killing in self-defence a man who has 
attacked you for murdering you, and killing a rich traveller 
for the sake of his money, are ethically entirely different, 
though the act of killing is the same in both the oases. The 
German poet Schiller has described a similar incident towards 
the end of his drama 'WiUiam Tell ; and the distinction which 
has been made by him there between two externally exact 
actions, on account of the purity or the iniimrity of the 
Reason, is the difference between the ‘abandonment of self- 
interest’ (smrtJm-lyaga) and the ‘destruction of self-interest’ 
(■wartha-luitiju). This shows that whether the two acts are 
unequal or are equal to each other, the difference between them, 
from the point of view of Morality, arises from the difference 
between the motives of the doers. This ‘motive’ is also known 
as ‘ Intention ’, ‘ Desire ’, or ‘ Reason ’; because, although the 
scientific meaning of the word ‘Reason’ is the ‘Discerning 
organ’, yet, as ‘Knowledge’, ‘Desire’, and ‘Intention’ are all the 
results of the activity of this mental organ, it is usual to also 
refer to all these as ‘Reason’; and as has been stated before, 
the Equable Reason of the Sthitaprajna is a combination 
of the steadiness of Pure Reason and the purity of 
Practical Reason. The Blessed Tjord did not ask Arjuna to 
consider how many persons would be benefited or how many 
persons ruined by the war being carried on. On the other band, 
the Blessed Lord has said, “Whether Bhisma will die or Drona 
will die as a result of the carrying on of the war, is a minor 
consideration; the principal question is with what frame of 
Reason you are going to enter the fight; and if your Reason 
is like that of a Sthitaprajna, you will incur no sin if Bhisma 
and Drona are killed while you are performing your duty with 
that pure and untarnished Reason, You are not fighting with a 
Hope of Fruit in the shape of causing the death of Bhisma. 
You have only asked for a share of that kingdom to which you 
have acquired a right by birth ; in order to avoid the war, you 
have not failed to take it lying down as much as possible, and 
have even tried conciliatory ambassadors : but when vou saw 



CONCLUSION 


673 


that this course of propriety and of gentleness was of no avail, 
you have started the war, as there was no other alternative. 
For this, you are not to blame at all; because, i, is your duty, 
to acciuire these rights ultimately by fight, if necessary, in 
the interests of public welfare, according to the religion of 
Ksatriyas, instead of wasting time in begging like a Brahmin 
( Ma. Bha. U. 28 and 72; and Vanaparva 31!. 48 and 50 )”. 
Accepting: this logical reasoning of the Bless 3d Lord, Vyasa 
has satisfied Yudhisthira later on in the Santipaiva (San. ch. 32 
and 33). But though the Reason is thus cons .dered to bo the 
superior factor in deciding w-hat is right and what is wrong, 
it becouKM necessary to explain wliat is meant b;r Pure Reason; 
because, as both the Mind and the Reason are evolutea (vikara} 
of Matter (pmkrH), they can inherently be of three kinds, that 
is sattvika (static), rUjdfin (active) and tamam (igroraiit). There¬ 
fore, the Gita has said tliat, that Reasoning Faculty which 
Realises the Form of the pormancnt Atman, which (Atman) 
is beyond the cognizance of Reason, which (form) is common 
to all created things, is to bo called the pure or the sattvika 
Reason in the Philoc.ophy of Ivarma-Yhga. 'fhe aUttvika Reason 
is also know'll as the Equable Reason; and the word‘Equable’ 
means “ which recognises and Realises the unity or identity 
of the Atman which inluibits all created tilings”. That 
Reason which does not Realise this identity, s nedther pure 
nor sutlvika. When one lias thus decided that t li.s Equability 
of Reason is tire most important factor in determining questions 
of Morality, the next quo.stion w'hich naturally arises is, how to 
recognise this evenne.ss or Equaliility of Reasc n; bucauso, as 
the Reason is an internal organ, one cannot see by one’s eyes 
whether it is good or bad. Therefore, in order to find out 
whether or not the Reason is pure and equable, one must in the 
first instance consider the external Actions of the man ; other- 
wdse, a man will by his mouth say that his Reason is pure and 
equable, and by his hands do whatever he likes. Therefore, the 
Sastras have laid down the proposition that thi true Knower 
of the Brahman has to be recognised by considering his nature; 
and that if he, is a mere talker, he is not a true saint. In 
describing the characteristics of the Sthitajir ijiia or of the 
Devotee of the Blessed Lord, the Bhagavadgita principally 



fi74 GITA-RAHASY4 OR KARMA-YOGA 


describes how such persons behave in the world towards other 
people; and in the thirteenth chapter, ' Jhana ’ (Knowledge) 
has also been defined in the same way, that is, by explaining 
the effect of Jnana on a man’s nature. From this it will be 
seen, that the Gita does not say that one need not at all 
consider the external Actions of a man. But. although 
behaviour, that is to say, external Action, and principally 
external Action in times of adversity, has to be considered 
in order to tost whether the Reason of any particular 
person—and epecially of another person—is or is not Equable, 
yet, wo must also bear in mind, t'nat we cannot come to a 
faultlo.ss conclusion as to the morality of a per: on )riorely from 
his external l)ehavio\ir. Because, although under certain 
circumntance.s, an external Action may bo small, yot, its moral 
value is as high as that of a big act, as will be proved I'rom the 
story of the mungoose mentioned above. Therefore, our Sastras 
have laid down that (i) whether the external act is big or small, 
and whether it is beneficial to one person or brings happiness 
to many persons, that cannot be given higher importance than 
as being an evidence of a pure Rea.son; that (ii) after deciding to 
what extent the Reason of the doer is or is not pure, by con¬ 
sidering this external Action, one has ultimately to decide the 
morality or otherwise of such Action, by reference to the purity 
of Reason to be ascertained in this v/ay ; and that (iii) questions 
of Morality cannot ho properly decided merely by con¬ 
sidering external Actions. And, that is why the Equable 
and Pure Reason, that is. Desire, has been given a high place 
in the Karma-Yoga in the Gita, by saying that “the Reason is 
superior to the Action’’ (3. 49). In the book on the Bhagavata 
religion called Narada Paucarafra, which is later in date 
that the Gita, Markandoya says to Narada 

manasam pramnam eva mrvakarnudlcakaranani I 

manonurupam vukyavi ca vakyena prasphtdant mamih ii 

(Na. Pan. 1. 7. 18). 


that is, “the Mind is the only cause (the root cause) of all 
the Actions of mankind. As the Mind is, so does the man 
speok ; a man’s Mind expresses itself in what he says”. In 







CONCLUSION 


675 


short, the Mind (that is, the determination of the Mind) comes 
first, and then all Actions take place. Therefore, Buddhist 
writers have also accepted the doctrine of the Gita relating 
to Pure lieason for distinguishing between the Doable and 
the Not-doable. Por example, in the welLknov n Buddhistic 
work on Morrlity known as .Dhiunmaiiada, it i^ stated right 
in the beginning that;- 

maiLa/i'ililiuj/ifja.ind d/iniinnu ntdiiotieUillui (sre><ilil) inanf-maiju I 

UKUKisii (•<• piululUtiiia /i/iil'itilf- vU hiroli v'a I 

Idt'i /h: i/i(':kli(ini unrcU tuthi.'ifh 'd viiluito pd/in /l II 

( t,>hainuuip ida 1 ). 

tiiut is; 'the Mind, that is, the activities of the Mind 
come lirst, and the l•ig(lU;otls or unrighteous Action comes 
afterw.irds; (iliis being the order) the Mind is considered 
as princiiial and superior in this matter, and all these 
tendencies ( ilhnmin.d ) must be said to bo based on the 
Mind; therefore, according as tlte Mind of the doer is 
pure or vicious, so does his speech or ahion become 
good oj'bad ; and he enjoys iiappiuess, or suffers unhappiness, 
accordingly later on”'. Similarly, Buddhist writers have 
also accepted the corollary drawn from this dcctrine in the 
Upanisads and in the Gita ( Kausi. 3. 1; and Gi. 18. 17), that 
the Sthitaiirajna, whoso mind has once become coi ipleteiy pure 
and dcsireless, cannot afterwards be guilty of any sin, and that 
whatever he does, he is free both from sin and m nat; and it is 
stated in many places in Buddhistic works fliat the ' ni-hat ' 
that is, the ‘ man who has reached the state of jierfection ’, is 
always pure and sinless (Dhammaiiada, 294 and S95 ; Milinda- 
Pra. 4. 5, 7,’. 

From what has been stated above the Westeri Intuitionist 
school, which worships and takes tlie decision on questions of 
* This staurid in L’ali has been iutorpretod by diifereat persons 
in different ways; but in my opinion tliis stanna is based on 
the principle, that in order to doterinine the propriety or 
iiiipropriety of any particular Action, one has tr consider the 
nature of the .Mind of tire doer. See the connneMtary of Max 
4fiiller on Jiis Fnglish translation of the Dhammaj'ad'i (S. B. E. 
Mol. X. pp. 3, 4). 





676 


GITA-KAHAYSA or karma-yoga 


Morality from the deity of Conscience, and the Western 
Materialistic school, which asks you to decide all questions of 
Morality by the sole external test of ‘ the greatest good of 
the greatest number will both be seen to be one-sided and 
scientifically insufficient; because, Conscience is not some 
independent thing or deity, but is included in Pure Reason ; 
and when it has been so included, the decision of Conscience 
about the Duty and the Non-duty can never be faultless ; 
because, the Conscience of every man is sattvika, i-ajasa or 
lamam according to his inherent nature. And if you say that 
questions of Morality have to be decided by the purely 
external material test of 'the greatest good of the greatest 
number’, the Reason cf the doer is left entirely out of 
calculation; and if some one has taken in advance skilful 
precautions for reducing as far as possible the injurious- 
external effects of his theft or of his immoral behaviour, 
one has to say that his evil doings are less objection¬ 
able from the point of view of Materialistic Morality. 
That i;-; why the Vedic religion is not the only religion 
which has insisted on the purity of the body, the speech, and 
the mind ( Manu. 13. 3 -8; 9. 29 ); but, even in the Bible, 
adultery or immoral behaviour is not considered purely a 
bodily sin; and a man’s looking with immoral intentions towards 
a woman not his wife, or a woman looking with similar inten¬ 
tions towards a man not her husband, have also been considered 
adulterous (Matthew. 5. 28). And in the Buddhistic religion, 
it is stated that the purity must be not only bodily but also of 
the speech, and of the Mind (Dhamma. 96 and 391). Besides, 
Green says in addition that if one considers only external 
happiness as the highest ideal, there is a chance of rivalry 
between men and nien or between nations and nations for 
acquiring it, and of quarrels arising in consequence ; because, 
it is, as a rule, not possible for a person to acquire the external 
means of obtaining external happiness without reducing the 
happiness of others, Tire same is not the case with the 
Equable Reason. This internal happiness is self-obtained, 
that is to say, it can be acquired by any one for himself 
without interfering with the happiness of another. Not only is 
this so, but that man, who has acquired the inherent nature of 



CONCLUSION 


G77 


behaving with equability towards all created things by 
realising the unity of the Atman, cannot either secretly or 
openly commit any sin ; and it does not remai i necessary to 
say to him: “Always consider in what the greatest good of the 
greatest number lies”. Because, in the case of a man, it 
necessarily follows that whatever he does, will be done by him 
after proper consideration. It is not that propei consideration 
is necessary only for determining the correctness of moral 
Actions. What should bo the state of a man’s ccnscience when 
he makes that proper consideration, is the impoitaut question; 
becau.se, the conscience of every one i.s not the same. Therefore, 
when one nays that Equability of Reason must elways inhabit 
the Conscience, it is not neceK.siiTy to also say tiat one should 
take into proper account the welfare of the grmtest number, 
or of all created beings, or of the entire creation. Western 
philosophers liavo now started saying that man has duties not 
only towards all living being.s in tlie human species, but also 
towards living beings among dumb a,nimals; and these duties 
must bo included in the philosophy of the Doable and tlie 
Not-Doable; and it will be seen that from this mmprehensive 
point of view, the W(.irdH ‘welfare of the entire creation’ 
(survahliuld-liita) avo morti comprehensive than the words “the 
greatest g;nod of the greate.st number of bin ran beings"; 
and tliat, all thi.s is includi'd in Eqiiabilit.y of Reason. If, on 
the other hand, one takes the case where tin, Reason of a 
particular person is not pure and equable, then although he 
may ho jKirfoctly capable of deciding by calcu ation in what 
‘the greate.st good of the greatest number’ lies, it is not 
possible t.tial ho will ho inclined towards i loral Action; 
because, lieing inclined towards any good Action, is the 
quality of a Pure Mind, and not of a calculating Mind. If 
some one says that we need not consider the inhe:-ent nature or 
the mental frame of such a calculative person, ind that if his 
calculation is correct, a correct decision is arrivod at between 
the Duty and the Non-Duty, and we get what we want, then, 
such a position is wrong. Because, although every one 
ordinarily understands what is pain and what is happiness, 
yet, in discriminating between various kinds of pain and 
happiness, one has in the fir.st place to decide what value 




678 


GlTA-RAHASYA OR KARMA-YOGA 


has to be assigned to which particular pain or happiness ; 
and, as there does not now exist any definite external 
instrument like a thermometer for deciding these values, 
nor is there any likelihood of such an instrument being 
invented in the future, every one has to decide the true value 
of any particular pain or happiness with the help only of his 
own mind. But, as the man who is not saturated with 
the feeling of Self-Identification {atmaiipaimja), according 
to which “another man has the same feelings as I”, 
cannot properly gauge the intensity of pain or happi¬ 
ness, lie cannot make a true valuation of this pain or 
happino.ss; and then there i.s a natural mistake in the values 
of pain and happiness taken by him for arriving at a decision, 
and there is very often a chance thAt all his calculations will 
go wrong. Therefore, one must not ascribe much importance 
to the calculating process of ‘considering’ in the phrase 
‘ considering the greatest good of the greatest number and 
one has ultimately to say that the true seed of Morality is that 
Pure, Self-Indontifying and greedless Reason which has 
become Equable towards all created things, and by which the true 
value of the pain or happiness of the greatest number of other 
persons has first to bo decided. Morality is the inherent 
nature of a Conscience which is minelcss, pure, loving, equable, 
or, in short, which is endowed with the sattva constituent; it is 
not the result of mere discriminating calculation. Therefore, 
wlren Yudhisthira had ascended the throne after the Bharatl 
war, and Kunti, who had been made happy by the prowess 
of her sons, was about to leave the kingdom along with 
Dhrtarastra in order to live in the woods, she did not expatiate 
on the advice of doing ‘ the greatest good to the greatest 
number’, but simply said “mawas le mahad asfu ca ’’ (Ma. Bha. 
Asva. 17. 21), i.e., “ O, my son, may your Mind be always 
great’’. Those Western philosophers, who have maintained 
that considering in what the greatest good of the greatest 
number lies, is the true, scientific, and easiest te,st of Morality, 
have, in the first place, taken for granted that every one has 
the same pure Mind as themselves; and with that data, they 
have given advice as to the way in which questions of 
Morality should be solved. But, as the data of these 




CONCLUSION 


679 


Ijhilosophers is not corvoct, their principle of determining 
(piestions of Morality becomes one-sided and insufficient. 
Not only is this so, but their writings give rise to the 
foolish impression that if instead of troi bling about 
making his Mind, nature,I'lr moral character more mid more pure 
and sin-fearing, a man learns to make a proper calculation 
about the external effect.s of hi;; Actions, that will bo 
quite enough for him to become ‘moral’; and tiurefore, those 
Xrersons who have not overcome their selfish na1 ures, become 
crafty, scbiiming, or liypocritical (Cita 3. 6); .and the whole 
of society is likely to suffer to that extent, d horefore, the 
doctrine of the Gita that, (i) considering the exlerna.1 effects 
of Action, even merely as a tost of Morality, i,; insufficient 
and inferior (krptimi); and that (ii) in tliis matt' r,, tliat is, in 
Karma-Yoga (a) one has ultimately to rely on ihe hbinability 
of Roa.si)n, which is expressed in external Action-i, and which 
remains inichanged even in time.s of adversity, and (b) the 
true test of Righteous Action is Knowlet ge-full and 
unlimited .[’lua.' Reasoi.), or rectitude, is, in my opinion, more 
to the point, more coinprehen.sive, more correct, and more 
faultle.s,s than the Western Intuitionist or .Vlaterialistic 
doctrines. 

Leaving aside the Materialistic and Intuit onist works 
on the Philosophy of Ethics by Western writer.s and consi¬ 
dering only those works which deal with the subject purely 
from the Metaphysical point of view, it will be ^een that in 
them, as in the Gita, Purity of Reason is considered of greater 
value than the Action itself. For instance, take the ‘ Mela- 
phijsics I)/ Morals’ and other books on Morality written by 
Kant. Altliougli Kant has not adoirted the doctrine >f the unity 
of the Atman in all created beings, yet, after ra mutely con¬ 
sidering the question of Pure Reason and Praotica: Reason, he 
has come to the conclusums* that: (1) rather than determining 
the ethical value of any particular act, by corisidering its 
Set) Kant’s Theory of ElhicA, traualatcd by Abbott (iib Edition. 
This book coutnlns all theBO x)rojM)3ition3; tbo first proposition is 
at pages 10, 12, 16, and 24-, tlie second, at jiages 112 and 117; the 
third, at pages 31, 58, 121, and 290; the fourth, at ])S:ge8 18, 38, 65,. 
and 119; and the fifth, at pages 70-73 and 80. 




680 


GITA-RAHASYA OR KARMA-YOGA 


external result, namely, how many persons will be benefited and 
to what extent, one should determine that value by considering 
to what extent the Practical Reason (vasana) or Desire of that 
person is pure; (2) this Desire (or Practical Reason, i, e., 
vUsanatmaka biuldhi ) of a man can be considered to be pure, 
stainless, and independent, only when, instead of being 
engrossed in the happiness of the organs, it remains continually 
within the control of the Pure Reason (that is to say, when it 
acts according to the dictates of the Pure Reason regarding 
the Duty and the Non-Duty); (3) there is no necessity of laying 
down rules of Morality for that man whose Desire has become 
purified in this way, as a result of the control of the organs, 
after it has been so purified ; these rules are necessary only for 
ordinary persons; (4) when the Desire has been purified in this 
way, whatever acts it inspires the man to do, are dictated after 
considering “what will happen to me, if some one else does to 
me what I do to him," and (5) this purity or independence of 
Desire cannot be accounted for, unless one leaves the world of 
Action ( karnia-STSti ) and enters the world of the Brahman 
{hrahma-STsti). But as the ideas of Kant regarding the Atman 
and the world of the Brahman, were to a certain extent 
incomplete. Green, tiiough he belonged to the school of Kant, 
has, in his .Prole/;nmma to Ethics ( § § 09, pages 174-179 and 
223-232) first laid down that the inaccessible Principle, which 
saturates the external world, that is, the Cosmos (hrahmanda) 
is partly incarnated in the shape of the Atman in the pii^xta 
(that is, in the human body); and he has later on laid down 
the propositions that (i)it is the intense Desire of that 
permanent and the independent Principle in the human body, 
namely, the Atman, of Realising its most comprehensive, 
scicial, and all-pervading form, which compels human beings 
to perform good actions and that (ii) the permanent and un¬ 
changing happiness of man lies in this Realisation, whereas the 
happiness afforded by objects of pleasure is non-permanent. In 
short, it will be seen that though this point of view of both 
Kant and Green is Metaphysical, yet. Green has justified the 
discrimination between the Doable and Not-Doable, and the 
Freedom of Will, on the basis of the Pure Atmic form which 
is seen uniformly expressed both in the Body (piiida ) and in 



CONCLUSION 


681 


the Cosmos {brahmunda), instead of confining himself to the 
activitfes of IMre Reason, Although, these doctrines of 
Western Materialistic tnoral philosophers are not identical 
with the doctrines of the Oita mentioned below, one will 
certainly see the strange similarity between tlie two. These 
doctrines of the Gita are as follows: (1) the Desiring (i, e., 
vasanUtinika) Reason of the doer, is of higher importance than 
his external Actions; (2) when the Pure {injaviimyUtmika) 
Reason has ijccome Self-Engro.ssed (dfina-id.dhc.), and free 
from doubt, and equable, tlie Practical Reason of itself also 
becomes pure and holy; (3) that Sthitaprajha whose Reason 
has become equable and steady in this way, is himself always 
beyond Rules of Conduct; (4) his behaviour, or the Rules of 
Morality arising out of his Self-Identifying Reason, become 
authoritativ (3 and standards for ordinary men; ind (5) there 
Is only one Principle in the shape of the Aiman, which 
pervades b(3th the Body (pimla) and the Cosmos (bniJiinanda), 
and the Atman within the body craves to Realise (this is 
Release, or Moksa) its pure and all-comprehensive form ; and 
when a man has Realised this pure form, he acquires the Self- 
Identifying (alinaupami/a) vision towmrds all created things. 
Yet, as the doctrines of Vedanta philosophy with reference 
to the Brahman, the Atman, Illusion (Maya), B’reedom of 
Will, Identity of the Brahman and the Atman, Causality 
etc,, are ihuch more advanced and definite than the doctrines 
of Kant and Green, the disquisition on Karma-li oga made in 
the Gita on the authority of Vedanta and of the Upanisads is 
metaphysically much more unambiguous and complete ; and 
the modern German Vedantist Prof, Daussen has, in his 
V>ook J'Jleiient.'' of XMaphydcH, accepted this same method 
of dealing with Ethics. Oaussen was a follower of 
■Schopenhauer, and he has accepted in toto the doctrine 
of Schopenhauer that “it is impossible to destroy unhappi¬ 
ness, unless Desire is destroyed, in as much as Desire 
is the cause of worldly life; and it is the duty of every 
one to destroy Desire and he has clearl}'- shown in 
the third part of his book referred to abuve, bow all 
principles of Ethics can be substantiated on the basis of this 
Metaphysical proposition. After showing that Desireless 



682 


gIta-rahasya or karma-yoga 


Action is the sign and the result of Destruction of Desire, 
since (i) Abandonment of Action is totally unnecessary for 
destroying Desire, or after Desire has been destroyed, and (ii) 
the fact whether Desire has been destroyed or not, can be 
proved by nothing so well as by Actions performed desirelessly 
for the benefit of others, Denssen has laid down the proposition 
that, Desirelessness of the Mind, is the root of proper behaviour 
and of Morality ; and he has at the end of his argument quoted 
the verse “ tattmad asaktah satatavi karijavt Imrrna mmucara” 
(Gl. 3. 19), which shows that he must have thought of this 
argument by reading the Gita. Whatever may be the truth, 
the fact that these ideas were universally current in our 
country long before Deussen, Green, Schopenhauer, and Kant, 
and even possibly hundreds of years before Aristotle, is not a 
small matter. Many ponsons are now-a-days under the 
impression that Vedanta moans giving up family life and enter¬ 
ing the dry process of acquiring Release; but this idea is not 
correct. Vedanta philosophy has come into existence for 
considering as scientifically as possible such deep and difficult 
questions as, (i) going beyond whatever can be actually seen 
in the world and determining who man is, (ii) determining 
what the Principle at the bottom of the universe is, (iii) 
defining the relation between man and that Principle, and 
what the highest ideal of man in this world is, having regard 
to that relation; (iv) finding out the mode of life which must be 
adopted by man in order to reach that ideal, or (v) in what way, 
which ideal can be reached etc. etc.; and strictly speaking, the 
whole of Ethics, or the consideration of how men should be¬ 
have towards each other in worldly life, will be seen to be apart 
of that profound philosophy. Therefore, Karma-Yoga has to be 
justified on the basis of Vedanta; and whatever the followers 
of the Path of Renunciation may say, Vedanta philosophy 
undoubtedly falls into the two divisions of Pure Vedanta and 
Moral or Practical Vedanta, in the same way as Mathematics, 
is divided into Pure Mathematics and Applied Mathematics. 
Kant even says that the moot questions about the ‘Parame^vara’ 
(the Highest Atman), ‘Immortality,’ and ‘Freedom (of Will)’ 
* See Deusseu’s Elements of Metaphysics^ Eng. Trans., 1909 



CONCLUSION 


683 


have come into the human mind, only as a result of considering' 
the Ethical (luestions, “ How should I behave in the world ? ”, 
or, “What is my true duty in this world” V; ai d that deciding 
questions of Morality by a calculation of tlie ijure external 
happiness of mankind, without safisfactorily answering these 
ethical (luestions, will result in encouraging the aninral 
instincts in the human mind, wliich are fascin ited by objects 
of pleasure, and thereby cutting at the vm-y root of the 
principles of true Miorality. It is not n icessary now to 
explain in so many words why and how Vedante has entered the 
Gita, even if the subject-matter <jf tlio Gita is Karma-Yoga, Kant 
has written two books on this subject, which arc known as the 
Critiiiin:' of I'lire /’ca.so??, and tho (,riliiine of I'ractiml Reason. 
But as 'ihe Bhagavadgita nut only deals with both these 
subjects consistently with tho philosophy of ihe Upanisads,. 
but also includes a disquisition on the Bat i of Devotion, 
based on h'eligiou.s EiUth, it has become acceptable and 
authoritative on all hands. 

If, keeping the (lue.stion of Rclca.se aside for the timo^ 
being, '.E(liability of Boason’ i", acc.eptod as important, as being 
the moral jirinciple involved in tho discernment of the Doable 
and the Not-doahliy it also hccomc.s neoessxry to briefly 
con.sidor wh> and how oilier paths arose in the Philosophy of 
Ethics, in addition to that of the Metaphysics of the GitS. 
Dr, Paul Cams 1 a well-known American philompher, answers 
this que.stion in his hook on Ethic.s by saying that: “ a man’s 
ideas about tho fundamontal principles of Ethics vary accord¬ 
ing to hi.s idea of the mutual relationship between the Body 
{iiinda) and the Cosmos {lirahiniuida). Unless there is some 

* “ Piiipirioisiii, ca fclio coutrary, cuts up at the roots of the 
morality of ivtontions (hi which, and not in action i only, consists 
the high worth that men can ami ought to give themsolves)... 
Empiricism, moreover, being on this account allied with all the 
inclinations \\ inch (no matter what fashion they put on) degrade 
humanity when the.y arc raised to the dignity of a supreme 

practical example.is for that reason much more dangerous 

than mysticism ” Kant’s Them-y of Ethics pp. I'iS and 23(i-238. 
See also Kant’a Orilujite of Eure Jteasou (traus. ly .Max M'iller) 
2iid Ed. pp. d40-657. 




684 


GITA-EAHASYA or karma-yoga 


definite belief regarding the inter-relation between the Body and 
the CoBmos, no question of Morality can really speaking arise. 
It is possible that we may behave morally, although we may 
have no definite belief as regards this inter-relation; but, as 
this behaviour will be like Bomething done in sleep, it would 
be more proper to refer to it as some bodily {kayika) activity 
resulting from bodily laws, instead of referring to it as moral 
behaviour”. For instance, a tigress is ready to sacrifice hei 
own life for protecting her cubs ; but we do not say that this 
her behaviour is a moral act, but we say that it is her 
inherent nature. This answer very well explains how several 
schools of thought have arisen in the matter of principles of 
Etuics. Because, that principle which solves the questions, 
‘ Who am IV’, ‘ ITow was the world created V ’, ‘ What is my use 
in this world etc., is the principle by which every thinking 
I)erson ultimately decides the question how he is to behave 
towards other people in bis life. But these questions cannot be 
answered in the same way in different countries and at 
different times. According to the Christian religion, which is in 
vogue in Europe, the Creator of man and of the Universe is 
the qualityful Paramesvara mentioned in the Bible; and it is 
stated there that Ho first created the world, and laid down 
the Conunandnients of moral conduct for man ; and Christian 
philosophers were originally of the opinion that these 
Commandments, which were laid down consistently with the 
idea relating to the Body and the Cosmos mentioned in the Bible, 
were the root of all Morality. When it was fonnd later on that 
these Commandments were insufficient to meet all the ordinary 
activities of life, it came to ho maintained that the 


" See Ths Ethical Prohlcm by Dr. Gurus, 2nd Ed., p. 111. 
‘‘Oar proposition ia tliat the leading xiriueiple in ethics must 
bo derived from the philosophical view back of it. The 
world-conception a man lias, can alone give character to the 
pirinciplc in his ethics. Without any world.concojition, we have no 
ethics (i.e., ethics in the highest sense of the word). We may act 
morally like dreamers or somnambulists, but our ethics would in 
that case bo a mere moral instinct without any rational insight 
into its raison d’ etre ”, 




CONCLUSION 


685 


Almighty (Paramesvara) had given Conscienoo to man in 
order to supplement or clarify these Comma idments. But^ 
as they later on realised the dilliculty that a thief and an 
honest man have not the same kind of Co iscience, there 
came into vogue the opinion that (i) althoug-h the Will of 
the Almighty was the foundation of Ethics, yet this His Will 
had to be ascertained by considering in wliat the greatest 
good of the greatest number lay; and that (ii) there was no 
other means of understanding the nature of tiat Will. All 
these opinions arc on the ba.sls of the belief oJ the Christian 
people, regarding the mutual intor-relation of the Body and 
the Cosmos, to tire effect that some qualityfiil Almighty is 
the creator of the world, and that it is His Desirr or Oommand- 
vnent that man should act morally. But when, as a result 
of the growth of the Material .scieDce.s, it came to be seen 
that the dothrines enunciated in th(3 Christian sciuptures 
regarding the creation of the Body and the Coiinos were not 
correct, the .:juestion whether tliere was or vas not some 
creator of t.lio world like tlie Paramesvara came to be left 
aside, and the <(ue.stion wlietlier or not the edifice of Ethics 
and morality could ho. erected on tlie foundation of things 
which were ;.rctually visible began to be c<,)nudered; and it 
began to bo maintained ttiat the greatest happ ness or benefit 
of the greatest number, or the growth of 'hnim.iiiness’, wero the 
visible principles wliiefi were the fundamental principle.s of 
Ethics. Ill this expo.sitioii, no rea;;on is adduced as to why 
a man should try to obtain the greatest good of the greatest 
mimbor; and it is only said that sucli is the coins'lantby growing 
inherent tendency of mankind. Put, as .Liuuii.n nature also 
includes other vi.sible tendencies like seUishuess etc., there arose 
differences of opinion even in tliis .school of thought. It is 
not that these expositions of Jtthic.s are eii.t;rely faultless. 
But, as ail the philososhers belonging to tills sol ool of thought, 
placed no ho] iof or confidence in the propositicn that there is 
■at the bottom of the universe some imperceptible Elemaut, 
wbk-h is beyond the visible objects in tfio universe, they have 
always altoivipted to somehow or other explain away all the 
difficulties which arise in tfieir path by some external or visible 
lirinciples. It will be seen from this how, although every one i.s 



686 


GITA-RAHASYA OB KARMA-YOGA 


in favour of Ethics and Morality, there is always a divergence 
in the various expositions, on account of there being different 
opinions regarding the construction and the inter-relation of 
the Body and the Cosmos; and that is why I have divided the 
exposition of Ethics into three divisions in the third chapter 
of this book according to the Materialistic, Intuitionist, and 
Metaphysical view-points regarding the construction of the 
Body and the Cosmos; and have afterwads considered indivi¬ 
dually the most important doctrines of each school of thought. 
Those who believe that the entire visible universe was created 
by some qualilyful Baramesvara, do not consider the question of 
Morality beyond considering the Commandments of tire 
Almighty as given in their scriptures, or the dictates of Con¬ 
science, which according to them, was created by the power of 
that Baramesvara. I have called this school of thought 
the ‘Intuitionist’ (ruJIdilairilca) school; because, a qualityful 
Baramesvara is after all a deity. Those who believe that there 
is no invisible Brinciple at the root of the universe, or that if 
any such principle exists, it is inacces,sible to human intelli¬ 
gence, erect the edifice of Morality on the foundation of the 
principle of the greatest good of the greatest number or the 
highest development of humanness, svhich are visible principles. 
I have named this school of thought, the ‘Materialistic’ 
(adhihhautika) school. Those who believe that there is some 
eternal and intangible Principle like the Atman at the root of 
the Name-d and Forrn-ed universe, take the exposition of 
Ethics beyond the Materialistic exposition; and they decide 
the question of the duty of human beings in this world by 
harmonising the Knowledge of the Atman with Morality or 
religion. This school of thought has been named by me 
‘Metaphysical’ {adhyatmika) school. The actual practical 
Morality of these three schools is one and the same ; but, as 
the opinion of each school of thought regarding the construct¬ 
ion and inter-relatian of the Body and the Cosmos is different, 
the fundamental principles of Ethics are slightly different in 
each school. Just as Grammar does not create a new language, 
but only finds out the rules relating to the language in ordinary 
use, and helps the growth of that language, so is the case with, 
Ethics. Ever since the day on which the human being cama 



CONCLUSION 


687 


into exiHtence in this world, man has been keeping: his conduct 
pure with the help of his own intelligence, according to the 
circumstances of his country and of his times ; and those high- 
principled and noble-minded people, who have come to birth 
from time to time, have laid down rules for the purification of 
behaviour, in the shape of inspirational commands (coclana), 
according to their own ideas. The philosophy oi Ethics has 
not come into existence for breaking up these rules and making 
new rules. Rules of Ethic.s, such as, “Do not com nit murder”, 
■'iSpoak the truth”, “Do good unto otlicr.s” etc., have been in 
vogue from aiiiuent times. But Etliics has to consider only 
what the basic principles of Morality are, in order that it 
should le convenient to expand those principles of Morality ; and 
therefore, whatever sctiool of ethical thought is tah.en, the rules 
of Ethics, which are now in vogue, are everywhere more or 
less the same. The only differences which arise ii these rules, 
are regarding the form of the exposition of those rules; and 
the statement of Dr. f’aul Cams that the chief reason for these 
differences is the difference of opinion regarding the construc¬ 
tion and inter-relation of the Body and the Cosmos is seen to 
be true- 

The fact that Modern Western Materialistic philosophers, 
who have written on the subject of Ethics, such as, Mill, 
.Spencer, Comte etc., have given np the easy and comprehensive 
principle of Self-Identification (altmupamijn) and have 
attempted to erect tlie edifice of Morality on the external 
principle of ‘Universal benefit’ {mrvabhu(a-hita), or ‘the greatest 
good of the greatest number’, is due to the fact that their 
opinion regarding the construction of the Body and the Cosmos 
i.s different from the ancient opinions. When this has been 
thus proved by me, those who do not accept these new-fangled 
opinions, and wish to give deep consideration to such questions 
as “Who am I “What is the thing known as the universe?”; 
■'How do I perceive this universe?”; “Is the external world 
independent of me, or not?”; “If so, what is the fundamental 
element at the root of it?”; “What is the relationship between 
that Element and myself ?”; “Why should one man sacrifice 
his life for the sake of another?”; “If it is true, according to 
the rule, ‘whatever has come into existence, is sure to die’, that 



688 


GiTA-RAHASYA OR KARMA-YOGA 


the world on which we live along with all created beings is 
sometime or other going to he destroyed, why should we 
destroy our own happiness for the sake of future mortal 
generations ?”; or, those persons again who are not satisfied 
with the solution, that philanthropy and other mental 
tendencies are the inherent tendencies of the visible, non¬ 
permanent, world of Action, and who wish to go to the root of 
these tendencies, cannot but turn to the eternal philosophy of 
the Absolute Self. And that is why Green has started his 
book on Ethics with the doctrine that the Atman which 
comes to Know the perceptible world, must be different from 
that perceptible world; and that is also why Kant has first 
dealt with Pure Reason and then written his Critique of Prac¬ 
tical Reason or of Ethics. Although the statement that man 
is born for the happiness of himself or of many, may appear 
tempting at first sight, it is not really correct, If one considers 
for a moment whether those noble souls, who are prepared to 
sacrifice their lives only for the sake of Truth, do so only 
with the motive that future generations should have more 
and more of physical happiness, one Is forced to admit that 
man must be having something as his highest ideal in this 
world, which (ideal) is more important than the transient 
material happiness of himself or of others. Which is that ideal V 
Those who have Realised the permanent, eternal. Element 
in the shape of the Atman, which is clothed in the Name-d 
and Form-ed, that is, visible, though perishable. Appearance 
of the Body and the Cosmos, by personal Realisation, 
reply to this question by saying that the first duty of every 
intelligent person in this world is to Realise the eternal, 
superior, pure, immortal, and all-pervasive form of his own 
Atman, and to be merged in it. That man, who has in this 
way Realised the Unity of the Atman pervading all created 
thi)igs, and every atom of whose body and organs is saturated 
with this Knowledge, does not stop to contemplate on the 
question whether the world is or is not transient, but automati¬ 
cally takes to the work of universal benefit, and becomes the 
protagonist of Truth. Because, he has fully Realised the true 
nature of the Eternal Truth, which is untouched by past, 
pre.sent, or future. This metaphysically perfect state of a man 



CONCLUSION 


689 


is the original source of all rules of Morality ; and this what 
is known in Vedanta as ‘Release’ (moksa), Whatever system 
of Morality is taken, it cannot be independent of this ultimate 
ideal; and, therefore, in expounding Ethics or the Karma-Yoga, 
one cannot hut surrender oneself to this principle The desire 
for universal welfare is only a tangible form of the intangible 
fundamental ])riuciple of the Unity of the Atmar in all created 
things; and tlie qualityful I’arameWara, and the visible world, 
are nothing but visible forms of the imperceptible, all-pervasive, 
Atman, \v:iich is embodied in all created things And not only 
is Knowledge incomplete, unless one has gone beyond these 
visible fo;'ms and Realised that imperceptible form, but the 
highest ideal of every human being in this \.'orld, namely, 
reaching the ultimate perfect state of the Atman in the Body, 
is not attained unless this Knowledge has been acejuired. Take 
the case ol Morality, or of worldly life, or of religion, or of any 
other Science, Metaphysical Realisation is the ultimate culmi¬ 
nation of all of them; cf: “.svi/-wj/b kartiiakhikij/ part ha Jhane 
pari8atnapi'af(‘” (G't '1.63), (i e., “() fbirtha, all Acti )n whatsoever, 
ultimatel.v culminates in Knowledge ”—Tran.s.]; and as our 
Path of Uevotion is based on this innnciple, the doctrine, 
‘the principle of Eciuability of Reason, which comes into 
existence as a result of Kealisation, is the root o' good conduct 
{mdncararja) and of Release', remains unchanged even in the 
Path of Diwotion. The only important objecticn against this 
princijjle, established hy Vedanta philosophy, is the belief 
of some V(!dantists, that it is absolutely essential to abandon 
all Action after one has come to the stage cf Realisation. 
And tlierelore, the tHta has, after showing that there is no 
conflict between Knowledge and Action, ex])atiated on the 
Karma-Yoga doctrine tliat Jnanins must, notwitiislanding that 
they have! destroyed Desire, perform all Actions, purely as 
duties, for universal benefit, and with the intention of 
dedicating them to the l.hiramcsvara. It is: true that the 
advice given to Arjuna is a special advice to fight, as ho has 
been asked to fight and to dedicate all Actions to the 
Paramesvara ; but that advice has been given consistently with 
the occasion which then existed (fll. 8. 7). All persons e. g. 
farmers, carpenters, ironmongers, agriculturists, grain-dealers 







690 


GITA-RAHASYA or KARMA-YOGA 


merchants, Brahmins, clerks, etc., must keep going their 
various activities pertaining to their respective positions in 
life, with the intention of dedicating them to the Paramesvara, 
and thereby carry out the maintenance and uplift of the world, 
in the game way as Arjuna; and the SUMMARY of all this 
advice is that when every one in this way sticks to whatever 
profession or position in life is his by birth, with a desireless 
frame of mind, he, the doer, does not thereby commit any sin ; 
that all Actions are essentially the same ; that the fault, if 
any, lies in the Reason of the doer, and not in the Action 
(Karma); and that, when a man performs all Actions after 
equabilising his Reason, he thereby only performs the worship 
of the Paramesvara, and, not having committed any sin, 
ultimately attains Release. But, those persons, who have made 
a firm determination not to enter the deep waters of the 
consideration of the Atman and the Non-Atman by 
trangressing the borders of the perishable and visible universe, 
because it is improper to do so, (especially, in these modern 
days), give up the high level of man’s highest ideal of 
Realising the identity of the Brahman and the Atman, and 
start the exposition of their philosophy of Ethics with the 
inconstant, if visible, Materialistic principles of ‘ the benefit of 
mankind’, or ‘ the benefit af all created things But just as 
one cannot say that a tree has become a different tree, as a 
result of one’s having lopped off the top of it, so also does the 
philosophy of Ethics invented by Materialistic philosophers 
not become a new philosophy, merely because it is headless or 
incomplete. Even in our India, Saihkhya philosophers, who 
do not admit the identity of the Brahman and the Atman, and 
who look upon each Purusa (Spirit) as a separate entity, have 
fixed the characteristics of the three constituents, sattva, rajas 
and tamas, after considering which of those constituents is 
responsible for the maintenance of the world, and which, for 
the destruction of the world; and they have maintained that 
it is the duty of every man to reach the highest state of the 
suttvika constituent, and that by doing so, one attains the state 
of the Trigunatita (beyond the three constituents), and acquires 
Release ; and the same import has been conveyed, with a slight 
difference, in the seventeenth and the eighteenth chapters of 



CONCLUSION 


691 


the Gita. * Whether you call it the ‘ highest development of 
the sUttvika constituent ’ or, you cal] it the ‘highes j expansion of 
philanthropy, or humanne'ss ’ in Materialistic terminology, it 
is just the same. Not only have all these Materialistic 
principles been fully enunciated both in the Mai abharata and 
in the Gita, but it is clearly stated in the Mahiilharata, tliat if 
one considor.s the worldly or the external use of rule,s of Right 
and Wrong {i/h<irm(iJlia,rniii), one se('s that these moral rules are 
for the good of all created beings, tliat is, for u liversal good. 
But, iiustead of somehow or other getting rid of the matter like 
Materialistic ))hilosophers, by relying ineivdy on t le Perceptible, 
and indulging in verbosity because they have no faith in the 
Imperceptible, altliougli they realise tliat Materialistic 
principles are insulticiont for philosophically listinguishing 
between the Duty and the Nou-duty, ihe Blessed Lord has in the 
Gita taken the ladder of these principles right up to the funda¬ 
mental, imperceptible, and permanent Element at the root of 
the Body and Gosinos, and established a comidete harmony 
between Release, Morality, and vorldly life on the basis of 
philosophy; and, therefore, it has been clearly stated in the 
beginning of the Anugita (Ma. Bha. Asva. 16. 12) that the 
principles, which have been enunciated for distinguishing 
between the Duly and the Non-duty, ultim itely lead to 
Release, Those who are of the oi)iiiion that it is not necessary 
to harmonise the science of Release with Ethics, or Meta¬ 
physics with Morality, will not realise the importance of 
this exposition. But such people as are rot indifferent 
about this matter, will certainly consider t.he argument in 
support of Karma-Yoga as superior to or more acceptable 
than the puridy Materialistic exposition of tha subject. As 
philosophy was not as highly developed raetr.physically in 
any country in ancient times as in India, it was not possible 
that such a Metaphysical exposition of Karma-Yoga ( Right 
Action) should have been made in any country; lor has it been 
BO made. 

* Tha hook luiiiied. The JJindu System of Mora l Science written 
by Babn Kishoriliil Sircar M. A., B. L., is of this kmd, that is, it is 
based on the foundation of the three constituents, t'lUva, rajas, and 
tamas. 




692 


GITA-RAHASYA OR KARMA-YOGA 


I have considered in the eleventh chapter above the pros and 
cons of the doctrine that, rather than abandoning Action some¬ 
time or other in this life, it is better to continue performing the 
same Actions, desirelessly and for the public welfare, cf; "‘'karma 
Jyayo hij alcarmartah” (i. e., “Action is superior to Inaction’’—■ 
Trans.), which has been enunciated in the Gita, notwithstanding 
that it accepts the position that worldly life is inconstant, and 
that there is more of unhappiness than happiness in such 
life (Gl, 9. 33), But, in comparing this Karma-Yoga of the 
Gita with the Western philosophy of Action, or our philosophy 
of Renunciation with the Western philosophy of Abandonment 
of Action (karma-lijUga), it is necessary to deal at greater length 
with, this matter. The doctrine that Release cannot be 
attained, unless one goes out of this painful and insipid worldly 
life, was first brought into the Yedic religion by the writers 
of the Upanisads and the Samkhya philosophers. The prior 
Vedic religion was Energistic, that is to say, it dealt with 
ritualistic Action, But, if one considers religions other than 
the Vedic religion, it will bo seen that most of them had 
accepted the Path of Renunciation from the very commence¬ 
ment, For instance, the Jain and Buddhistic religions are 
both from the very beginning in favour of Renunciation; and 
the preaching of Christ is also to the same effect. The 
original Christian religion has preached the same principle 
as was preached by Buddha to his disciples, namely,: 
“abandon worldly life, live like an ascetic, and do not look at 
or speak with women” (Maliaparinibbana Sutta 5. 23). Whereas 
Christ preached : “Thou shalt love thy neighbour as thyself” 
(Matthew 19, 19), St. Paul has preached “Whether there¬ 
fore, ye eat, or drink, or whatsoever ye do, do all 
to the glory of God”(l Cori. 10.31); and both these com¬ 
mandments are similar to the preaching of the Gita, that 
all Actions should be performed by Self-Identification and 
with the idea of dedicating them to God (Gi. 6, 29 and 9. 27). 
But from that it does not follow, that the Christian religion is 
Energistic like the Gita religion ; because, the ultimate ideal 
of the Christian religion is, that man should attain immortality, 
and be redeemed ; and as the Christian religion has maintained 
that that ideal cannot be reached without giving up one’s 





CONCLUSION 


695 


home, the original religion of Christ must be said to have been 
renunciatory. Not only did Christ himself remain unmarried 
till the end of his life, but when a young man came and said 
to Him: “I have from my youth uj) followed all such command¬ 
ments as ‘ Honour thy father anil thy mother ’, ‘ Ijove thy 
neighbour as thyself ' etc.; what good thing shall I do, that I 
may have eternal life Christ gave him the plain answer: “ If 
thou wilt be perfect, go and sell that thou hast, and give to the 
poor, and thou shalt have treasure in heaven; end come and 
follow me” (Matthew, 19. 16-30 and Mark, 1). 21-31); and 
immediately afterwards He turned to His disciples and said : 
“ It is easier for a camel to go through the eye of a needle, than 
for a rich man to enter into the kingdom of God ”. One may 
safely say that this is only a copy of the ac.vice given by 
Yajna\-alkya to Maitreyl that; “ uinriatvusija hi nlsasU mffena ” 
(Br. 2. 4. 2}, i.e., “if you have money, you need not entertain 
any hope of obtaining immortality ”. Christ has nowhere 
preached what has been preached by the Gita, namely, that for 
obtaining immortality, it is not necessary to give up worldly 
life, and that it is enough if all Actions in such life are 
performed desirelessly. On the other luind, whoraas Christ has 
preached that, as there is a permanent conflict between worldly 
wealth and God (cf ; “ Ye cannot servo God an 1 Mammon ”, 
Matthew 6. 24), thcroforo, “ if any man conn to me, and 
hate not his father, and mother, and wife and children, 
and brethren, and sistei-s, yea, and his own life also, 
he cannot be my disciple” (Luke 14. 26), tit. Paul, the 
disciple of Christ has preached that: “It is got d for a man 
not to touch a woman” (1. Curi. 7. 1) In the san: e way, I have 
shown abC'Ve the similarity between the statement in the 
Brhadaran,vakopanisHd( Bi-. 4.4.22) that, “/arttproja/ya karisi/uiiio 
yetia/u no 'yam atiria ’yai'n lokah", (i. e., “as we see that the whole 
world is nothing hut our Atman, why should wo have any 
(other) generation V” ; see p. 433, Vol. I -Trans.), and 

the following words uttered by Christ: “Who is my mother ? 
and wlio are my brethern V For wlmsoever shall do tiro will of 
*Tlus 13 the standing advico of tlioae who advoeate thy i’ath 
of Kemu'.eiation. The words “kii te kanla kas te jmtrah” (i. e. “what 
is thy wife wtiat is thy son P’-- -Trans.) uttered hy SathktiriicSrya 




694 


GITA-RAHASYA OE KARMA-YOGA 


my Father, which is in heaven, the same is my brother, and 
sister, and mother” (Matthew, 12, 46-50). It follows from 
these statements in the Bible itself, that the Christian religion, 
like the Jainism or Buddhism, originally advocated the 
giving up of worldly life, that is, supported Renunciation; 
and if one considers the ancient history of the Christian 
religion, it is seen that consistently with the preaching of the 
Lord Christ to his disciples that: “Provide neither gold, nor 
silver, nor brass, in your purses”, the earliest of Christian 
preachers used to live in a state of Renunciation.The 
practice of Christian preachers or of followers of Christ, of 
taking up the state of householders and leading a family life, 
is the result of the reform which came afterwards ; that was 
not the original Christian religion. Even in these days, people 
like Schopenhauer maintain that worldly life is full of pain, 
and on that account discardable; and I have mentioned 
before that the question whether it was better to spend 
one's life in philosophical contemplation, or to spend 
it in diplomatic activity for public welfare, had arisen 
in Greece in ancient times. In short, this Western 
philosophy of the Abandonment of Action and our 
philosophy of Renunciation are to a great extent similar to 

are well known ; and there ia a atuteinant in the ISudilhacnrita (Life 
of Buddha) by Asvaghosa (C. li) that Buddha had said : ^‘kvdham 
mdtvh kva sd mama” (i. e., “what am I to my mother, what is she 
to me ’i "—Trans.) 

* See Paulsen's System of Ethics (Eng. trane) Book, I, Ohap, 2 
and 3 ; esp. pp. 89-97. ‘‘The new (Christian) converts seemed to 
renounce their family and country...their gloomy and austere 
a'peot, their abhorrence of the common business and pleasures of 
life, and their frequent predictions of impending calamities 
inspired the pagans with the apprehension of some danger which 
would arise from the new sect". Historian’s History of the World, 
Vol. VI. p. 318. The German poet Goethe has, in his poem Faust 
said ; Thou shalt renounce ; that is the eternal song which rings 
ill everyone’s ears ; which our whole life long, every hour is 
hoarsely singing to us" {Faust. Part I lines 1195-11S8). I can 
quote many other authorities in support of the position that the 
■original Christian religion was renunciatory. 



CONCLUSION 


695 


each other; and one may safely say that the Western method 
of supporting that philosophy is the same as the Eastern 
method. But, as the reasons given by Western philosophers 
for proving that the Path of Action is bette.- than that of 
Abandonment of Action are different from the reasons adduced 
in the Gita for following Energisin, this diffn-ence must be 
mentioned here. The supporters of the Western Materialistic 
Path of Action say, that we must look upon tl e greatest good 
of the greate.vt number or of all the beings in tie world—that 
is, their Material happiness—as the highest ideal in this world, 
and that it is the duty of everybody, while wrrking for the 
happiness of everybody else, to also become engrossed in the 
same happiiUiss ; and for supporting tbis positic n, many of the 
philosophers say, that there is more of hnp rinoss than of 
unhappiness in life. From this point of view, one ]ia,s to say 
that the followers of tfio Western Path of Actic n are such as 
“ take part in the worldly life in the hopo of obtaining 
happiness”, and that tliose who follow the'V/'estern Path of 
Abandonment of Action arc “ tired of worldly life”; and for 
this reason, they are ri’spoctivcly called ‘ ('ptimists ’ and 
‘ Pessimists ’'h But the two paths mentioned in the Bhagavad- 
gita are different from these ])at.hs. By l)eing i iduccd to take 
part in worldly life by the etiticement of physical material 
pleasure, whether one’s own or of other people, the 
mental frame in the shape of Equability of Reason suffers to a 
certain extent at least, 'riio Gita, tlioi-efore, say.s that (a) whether 
worldly life is productive of happiness or cf unhappiness, 
if one cannot give up worldly affairs even if one wants to do 
so, there is no sense in cuasidering whetlier they produce 
happiness or unhappiiieB,s; that (h) whether tlu re is happiness 
or unhappiness, one must consider it a great good fortune 
" .laiJiea bully has iu his liook called Pca.svmLsm described the 
two jiaths of Optimists and Pessimists. Out of dieso ‘ Optimist ’ 
moaia ‘ outhusiaslic .-uid ‘ Pe,ssimist' means ‘ tin d of life imd 
I have mentioued iu a previous note (see p, 4^0 that these 

words are synonymous with the words ‘Yoga’ and ‘ Ssiriikhya ’ 
used iu the Gita ; aud the same idea, is explained above iu detail. 
There is a third path who ‘ desire to prevent urhappiness and 
Sully has descrilicd this path as ‘ Molliorism 




696 


GiTA-RAHASyA OR KARMA-YOGA 


that one has got a human birth; and that (c) it is the duty of 
every human being to (i) suffer whatever fate befalls him 
in the inevitable activity of this world of Action, without 
allowing his heart to be discouraged, and with an equable 
frame of mind, as described in the words, “ duhhjesv anaduigna- 
Ttianah sukhesu vigatahsprhah'' (Gi. 3, 56.), (i, e., “with an 
undejected mind in the midst of unhappiness, and being free 
from desire in the midst of pleasures”—Trans.), and to 
(ii) go on performing life-long whatever portion of Action has 
fallen on one’s shoulders, for the maintenance of the world, 
according to one’s statu.s in life, consistently with the inj'uctions 
of the Sastras, and not for this purpose or that purpose, but 
dosirelessly. In the times of the Gita, the arrangement of 
the four castes was in full swing; and that is why it is stated 
in the Gita that different social duties arc allocated to different 
persons according to the arrangement of the fourca.stes; and 
it is shown in the eighteenth chapter how these difference.s 
arise according to the divisions of the constituents and of 
Karma (Gi. 18. 41-44). But, one must not, on that account^ 
draw the conclusion that the principles of Ethics enunciated 
in the Gita apply only to the arrangement of the four castes. 
'I'he writer of the Mahabbarata was fully alive to the fact 
that the coinpa.ss of the principles of Ethics like, Non-Violence 
{ (Mmsu ) etc., is not restricted to the four castes, and that these 
principles ordinarily apply to the whole of mankind. It is, 
therefore, clearly stated iu the Bharata, that the maintenance of 
the Non-Aryans, who were outside the four castes who observed 
these principles, must be made by the king according to these 
general Ethical principles (San. 65. 13.-23); and iastead of 
making the exposition of principles of Ethics depend on any 
particular arrangement of society, such as the arrangement of 
the four castes, the Gita luas based it on universal Metaphysical 
philosophy. The chief conclusion of the Ethics of the Gita is, 
that one must perform all one’s duties according to the 
Sastras, desirelessly, and by Self-Identification; and this 
applies equally well to all persons in all countries. But, 
altliough this universal principle of Ethics of a Self-Identify¬ 
ing vision and of Desireless. Action is thus established, it is 
also necessary to give some explanation of how those Actions, 



CONCLUSION 


697 


to which that principle has to be applied, fail to the lot of 
different parsons in this world. Tlie arrangemeiit of the four 
castes has, therefore, been mentioned in the Gita, is it was the 
most simple and natural illustration, which applied to the 
circumstances of that particular age; and the arrangement of 
society in those days has been concisely explaine 1 in the Gita 
according to the division of ‘constituents of Matter’ ((jnna)^ 
and Action, Uut this is not the priticiple idea of the Gita; and 
it must be borne in mind that the comprehensive doctrine of 
the Gita is that, even where this arrangement of :'our castes is 
not in vogue, or is not rigorously observed, a human being 
comes into existence to perform wliatever duti('S come to his 
share, for tlio maintenance of society, according to tlio arrange¬ 
ment of -ocicty wluch may then be in vog'ue, a.s duties, 
de.sirelfessly, couragoou.siy, a,nd enthusiastically, f ir the public 
good, and not for tiie enjoyment of iiloasuro; and the opinion 
advanced by i-ome that the Ethic.s expounded In tlie Gita is 
based on the arrangoment of (he four castes ia not correct. 
The Git:i says that wlietlu'v (he sucady is a liiniu .society or 
a non-llintu society, whether it is .an ancient society or a 
modern society, wlietiu'r it is an lil.-iKtocn society Jr a M^estern 
society, if t ie ai'rangeincut of tlio four castes applies to that 
society, then ae.;ording 10 that arciuigonumt, and it it does not 
apply, then according to any other arrangement of .-society 
which may bo applicalilu to it, tfiat duty which'nas fallen on 
one’s shoulders or which, heing possible, may have been taken 
up by one as a duty, of one’s own choice, hoocme.s a moral 
duty ; and giving up tlie,so moral duties, and, on th; spur of the 
luomeiit, tali ing up that which is proper for some one else, on 
some pretext or othei', is wrong from the point of view of 
Morality, as also from the point of view of ijuhlic good. This 
is what is meant by the statement in the Gita : " .ifiidliunne 
iiidliandfu sni/ah paradhaniKi liliatiai<i.h(ih ” (Gi. 3. .’ISj, i. e., “even 
if one has to die in the performauce of those dutie-i which are 
one’s own, that is meritorious; tail, taking up the duties 
{illkiniui) of another person is dangerous”; and,it is well-known 
in the Maharashtra that llama rihastribuva said to the elder 
Madhavrao Pe.shva, who was a Bralunin by ca,s',o, ami who 
iiad taken up the career of a soldier liaving regard to the 




698 


GlTA-RAHASyA OR KARMA- YOGA 


circumstances prevailing at the time, that: “ by your not 
wasting time in prayer and worship, but spending it for 
protecting society by taking up the career of a soldier, you 
will acquire happiness in this life and in the next”. The 
chief object of the Gita is not to show what would be the 
proper arrangement for the maintenance of society. The 
summary of the Gita religion is that, whatever the arrange¬ 
ment of society may be, one should enthusiastically perform 
all the duties which have come to one's share, according to 
one’s status in life, and ac(iuiro the benefit of the Atman in the 
shape of the happiness of all created things. It is true that 
the Actions, which tlio Sthitaprajha of the Gita performs by 
way of duties, are naturally productive of public good. But, 
the Sthitaprajha of the Gita does not entertain the egotistical 
feeling that T’ am by ‘MY’ actions causing public good ; and, 
as Equability of Reason has ))ecomo an inherent nature with 
him, all the Aotion.s which are performed by him, purely as 
duties, according to whatever arrangement of society may bs 
in vogue at any particular time, are naturally productive of 
public good. The modern Western moral philosopher, on the 
other hand considers worldly life as an embodiment of happi¬ 
ness, and bespeaks the performance of Actioms which produce 
public good in order to enable everybody to obtain this happiness 
of worldly life: this is the important difference between the 
Karma-Yoga of the Gita, and the Western Materialistic Path 
of Action. 

Nevertheless, it is not that all modern Western philo¬ 
sophers subscribing to the Path of Action, consider worldly 
life as productive of happiness. There is also a class of 
Karma-Yogins in the West like Schopenhauer, who, while 
admitting that worldly life is principally full of unhappiness, 
maintain, that one should not give up worldly life, but should 
try as much as possible to reduce the unhappiness of others- 
since it i,s the duty of a wise man to reduce this general 
unhappiness as much as possible; or who desire ‘to reduce 
unhappiness’. And there is a great deal of similarity between 
this path and the Karraa-Yoga of the Gita, Where it is 
stated in the Mahabharata that: “s/tfc/mii bahiitaram duhkham 
jivite naira samsayah”, i. e,, “in worldly life, unhappiness- 







CONCLUSION 


69*1 


is proportionately greater than happiness”, it is also stated 
by Manu to Brhaspati and by Narada to Suka that:- 

na Jaiutpadikivh duhkham ekah socitum arhai I 

asocan pralikurvila yaOi pasyed upakrarnam il 

(San. 205. 5 and 330. 15), 

that is, ‘‘it is not proper to lament about that unhappiness 
which is universal; instead of lamenting about the matter, 
one (the .Jhanin) should use such means as occur to him' 
for obviating that unhappiness”. From this it becomes quite 
clear, that even the writer of the Mahabharate, had accepted 
the doctrine that, although worldly life is full of unhappiness* 
the wise man should busy himself with inducing such 
universal unhappiness. But, this is not what the Gita is 
trying to preach. There must still be a considerable amount 
of improvement in the Western Karma-Yoga which attempts 
to reduce unhappiness, before it can come to the level of 
the Karma-Yoga in the Gita, which gives greater importance 
to the happiness resulting from Self-Identification, than to 
mere Material happiness, and which preaches that all worldly 
affairs should be carried on, while experiencing this happiness 
born of Self-Identification, merely because they are duties, 
and without entertaining the rajand pride that, ‘‘‘I’ (the doer) 
am performing Action with the itlea of reducing the unhappi¬ 
ness of others”. Western philosophers are always more or 
less engulfed in the idea that Material happiness, whether of 
oneself or of others, is the true highest ideal of man in this 
world—whether that ideal is reached by increasing the means 
of happiness or by reducing unhappiness—'it is not possible to 
find in their philosophy, the desireless Karma-Yoga of the 
Gita, which looks upon worldly life as inevitable, although it 
might be productive of unhappiness, and preaches Action for 
universal good ( lolm-samyrahn). It is true that all these 
persons follow the Path of Action; but it is easy to see the 
difference between the two, even from the point of view of 
Pure Morality, namely, that the Western Enargism desires 
happiness or desires the obviation of unhappir ess, that is to 
say, in either case, de.^ires something, and is sahima (based on 
Desire), whereas the Karma-Yoga of the Gita is always 

I I „1 o 



700 


GITA-EAHASYA or EA.RMA-YOGA 


indifferent about tbe Fruit of Action—or, if the same meaning 
is conveyed in other words, the Karma-Yoga of the Gita is 
sattmka and the Karma-Yoga of the West is rajasa ( Gl, 18. 
23 and 24). 

The Energistic path, or the Path of Karma-Yoga based on 
Spiritual Knowledge, of continually performing all worldly 
affairs as pure duties with the idea of dedicating them to the 
Paramesvara, and thereby making a sacrifice to, or worshipping 
lifelong, the Paramesvara, which has been preached by the 
Gita, is known as the ‘ Bhagavata religion The essence of 
this path is contained in the words: “ sve sve karrmny abhiratah 
aamsiddhim labhate narah " (Gl. 18. 45). This doctrine has been 
propounded in the Vana-parva in the story of the Brahmin 
and the hunter (Vana. 208), and in the Santi-parva in the 
conversation between the merchant Tuladhara and Jajali 
<San. 261) in the MahabhSrata, and even in the Manu-Smrti, 
after the enunciation of the path to be followed by ascetics, it 
is stated that this Karma-Yoga of the Vedantist ascetic (veda- 
saninyasika) should also be followed, and that it will lead to 
Release ( Manu, 6. 96, 97 ). It becomes clear from the word 
* veda-saninyasika ' (Vedantist ascetic), as also from the 
descriptions to be found in the Veda-Samhitas and in the 
Brahmanas, that this path had been in vogue in our India 
from times immemorial. Nay, if it were otherwise, our country 
would never have reached that prosperity, which it had; for, 
it is clear that in any country whatsoever, the persons who 
wield the destinies of the country must be supporters of the 
Path of Action. But the important point of our Karma-Yoga 
is that even such nation-builders must, without giving up the 
Knowledge of the Brahman, keep Action inter-linked with it; 
and, as has been stated above, this path came to be called the 
‘ Bhagavata religion, ’ because the Blessed Lord Bhagavan 
enunciated this path logically, and emphasised it, and gave it 
wide circulation. On the other hand, it becomes quite clear 
from the Upanisads that some Jrianins were inherently 
inclined from the very beginning towards the Path of 
Sarimyasa ; or at any rate, that after going through the state of 
a house-holder in the beginning, they, towards tbe end of their 
lives, used to conceive the desire of taking up Asceticism, 



CONCLUSION 


701 


whether they actually took it up or not. Therefore, it cannot 
also bo said that the Path of Renunciation {samnyasa) was 
something new. But, there is no doubt that, although both 
these paths were in this way in vogue in India since ancient 
times, on account of diversity of human nature, yet, in the 
times of the Vedas, the path of Ritualistic Action of the 
Mimariisa school was more in favour; and that in the times of 
the Kauravas and the Pandavas, the Karma-Yoga had to a 
great extent put the Path of Renunciation into shade. 
Because, our religious treatises have clearly saul that in the 
Kali-yuga, that is, after the date of the Kauravas and the 
Pandavas, the Path of Renunciation was prohibited; and in 
as much as every religion is a sign of whatever is 

customary at that time, according to the rule, “(icaraprabhavo 
dharrmh” (i. e,, “Morality springs from custom”—Trans.), (Ma. 
Bha. Anu. 149, 137; Manu. 1, 108), it is quite (dear that the 
Path of Renunciation (mvmydm) must have losi; ground as a 
custom long before the writers of the religious Hastras enun¬ 
ciated this prohibitory rule The question now naturally 
arises as to why this Karma-Y oga l)ased on SpLdtual Know¬ 
ledge, whic.h was at one time in full swing, started its 
decadence, if it was in this way predominant in the beginning 
and matters had come to the stage of considering the Path of 
Renunciation as objectionable in the Kali-yuga ; and why the 
opinion has gained ground even in the Path of Devotion, that 
the Path of Renunciation alone was superior. Some persons 
say that this difference was brought about Ity the first 
Samkaracarya. But if one considers history, it will be seen 
that this idea is not correct. As has been stated by me 
already in the first chapter, the teachings of t he school of 
Sarhkaracarya fall into two divisions, (1) Knowledge or 
Realisation of Non-Duality based on the doctrine of Maya 
(Illusion), and (2) the Path of the Renunciation of Action. 
Out of these two, although the Opanisads have advocated 
Renunciation along with the Realisation of the Non-Dual 
Brahman, yet, as this inter-relation between the tvm is not of 
a permanent nature, it does not follow from the aisceptance of 

* See the quotations given above in the foot-note to p. 476, 
Vol. I of this book. 




702 GlTA-RAHASYA OR KARMA-YOGA 


the Non-Dualistic Vedanta, that one must also accept the 
doctrine of Renunciation. For instance, not only were 
Janaka and others, who had fully learnt the Non-Dualistic 
Vedanta from Yajnavalkya and others, followers of the Path 
of Action, but even the G!tS has advocated the Path of Action 
based on Spiritual Knowledge, instead of advocating the Path 
of Renunciation, althoirgh it has adopted the doctrine of the 
Realisation of the Non-Dual Brahman from the Upanisads. 
Therefore, it must be first borne in mind that the accusation 
against the School of Saihkaracarya that it encouragedi 
Renunciation, does not apply to the Non-Dualistic basis of 
that cult, but may probabely be ranged against the doctrine of 
Renunciation included in the cult. Although this Path of 
Renunciation was not something new which had been invented; 
by Sri Saihkaracarya, yet, it is true that he removed the 
inferiority which had become attached to it, as it had been 
included among the things prohibited in the Kali-yuga. But,, 
if the Path of Renunciation had not acquired favour with 
people before the date of SamkarScarya for some other reason, 
it is doubtful whether his advocacy of Renunciation would 
have gained as much ground as it hid. Christ has said that 
when one cheek has been slapped, one should proffer the other 
cheek also for being slapped (Luke. 6. 29). But if one considers 
how many followers of th: position are to be found among 
the European kingdoms, it will be seen that something does 
not come into vogue merely because a religious preacher has 
praised it, but that there are at first some other substantial 
reasons why the minds of people are attracted towards it, and 
why there is thereafter a change in the public customs, and a 
sympathetic change in the religious rules. This is what is 
meant by the saying in the Smrtis that ‘Custom is the root of 
law or religion’. Schopenhauer sponsored the Path of Renun¬ 
ciation in Germany in the last century ; but we find that that 
seed has not even yet taken root in that country; and Nietsssche 
has found greater favour there than Schopenhauer; and even 
if we turn to Lidia, we find that although the Path of 
Sarhnyasa was already in vogue in the times of the Vedas long 
before Samkaracarj a, it had never put the Karma-Yoga into 
ahade. It is truc that there are directions in the Smrtis. 







CONCLUSION 


703 


that one should renounce the world towards the end of life. 
But they too have not done away with Action in the previous 
stages of life; and although the works of Saihkaracarya 
advocate Abandonment of Action, yet, his cwn life bears 
testimony to the fact that he had no objection to Jhanins, or 
even Saihnyasins, performing the Action of universal welfare 
according to their own (lualifications, e. g., for establishing 
religion ( Ve. Hu. Sam. Bha. 3. 3. 3,'I ). If the teaching of 
Samkaracarya based on the Smrtis had been resi onsible for the 
predominanct! of the Path of Renunciation, Ramaiiujacrirya, 
who belongs to the modern Bhagavata school, would have had 
no reason to give an inferior po.sition to the lArma-Yoga in 
his commentary on the Gita, in the same way as Samkaracarya, 
But, if the Karma-Yoga, which had once been very powerful, 
has been pul. into shade even by the renunc atory Path of 
Devotion included in the Bhagavata cult, one must say that 
there nhust have been some other rea.sons for its having thus 
lost ground, which apply equally to all countries or all cults. 
In my ojiinion the iirst and the most impoitant of these 
reasons w is the growth and the development o:' the Jain and 
the Buddhistic religions; and as both these religions had 
opened the door of Renunciation to all the castes, the Path of 
Renunciation has gained ground even with the warrior 
'{kmtnija) class from the date ^^en these tv'o religions came 
into vogue. But although Buddha had in the beginning 
preached the inactive Path of Renunciati in, yet, soon 
thereafter, there was a reform in the Buddh'stic religion, 
consistent with the Karma-Yoga of the Gixa, by it being 
preached that Buddhistic ascetics should not remain in the 
woods, in solitude, like rhinoceroses, but should continually 
exert themselves for the propagation of religion and for public 
good (See Appendices); and history proves to us that as a 
result of this reform, societies of energetic Buddhistic ascetics 
reached Tibet in the North, Burma, China, and Japan in the 
East, Ceylon in the South, and Turkestan and the adjoining 
European countries like Greece, etc., in the West. The 
promulgators of the Jain and Buddhistic religions were born 
about 600 to 700 years before the Salivahana era, whereas 
Samkaracarya was born about 600 year after that era. As the 




704 


GlTA-RAHASYA OR KARMA-YOGA 


eminence of the societies of Buddhistic ascetics,, working in 
the propagation of religion, was before the public eyes in the 
intervening period, there arose a kind of liking or respect for 
the life of an ascetic in the public mind, long before 
Sariikaracarya was born; and although Samkaracarya had 
refuted the Jain and the Buddhistic doctrines, yet, he gave a 
Vedic turn to the respect which reigned in the public mind for 
the life of an ascetic, and brought into existence Vedic ascetics 
for the establishment of the Vedic religion, instead of the 
Buddhistic religion, who were as active and energetic as the 
Buddhist ascetics. It is true that these (Vedic) Samnyasins 
led the lives of celibates, and used to wear clothes and carry 
a staff, which were the emblems of Renunciation ; yet, they, 
like their spiritual preceptor, continued the work of establish¬ 
ing the Vedic religion. Seeing in this way, that Samkaracarya 
had established an institution similar to the Buddhist societies 
of ascetics, a doubt may even at that time have arisen as to 
whether there was any difference between the teachings of 
Srimat Samkaracarya and the Buddhistic teachings; and 
possibly Samkaracarya has on that account said in his 
commentary on the Chandogyopanisad that: “ Buddhistic and 
Saihkhya asceticism is outside the purview of the Vedas and 
false; and as the Path of Renunciation enunciated l)y me is 
consistent with the Vedic religion, it is true” (Chan. Sam. Bha. t. 
33.1), in order to clear that doubt. Whatever may be the case, 
there is no doubt that Asceticism was first introduced in the 
Kaliyuga by the Buddhist and Jain teachers. It is, however, 
quite clear from history that even the Buddhist ascetics later on 
performed Action for spreading religion or for public good and 
that the societies of Vedic ascetics, brought into existence by 
Samkaracarya for defeating the Buddhistic ascetics, also 
did not abandon Action altogether, but re-established the Vedic 
religion by their activities. But soon after that, our country 
began to be invaded by Mahomedans ; and as the Ksatriya 
rulers, who were maintaining and protecting the country by 
their prowess against foreign invasions, and also simul¬ 
taneously, the prowess of our country, began to die out during 
the Mahomedan rigime, the original one-sided opinion that the 
path of sitting idle, taking the name of God ( saying ‘ Hari ’, 




CONCLUSION 


705 


‘ Hari ’) was the only proper way out of t ae two paths of 
Renunciation and Energism, must have become more and more 
acceptable to people for leading their worldly lives, as it was 
more in keeping with the particular external circumstances 
then prevailing. That state of things did not prevail before, 
is apparent from the following stanza adoptee, in the Sudra 
Kamalakara from Visnu-Purana namely:—■ 

apahaija nijai'n karma kr^a krmeti vadinah i 

ie harer dvesimth pupuh dharmdrtham janmo yad dhareh ii* 

that is, “those who give up the duties which are theirs (accord¬ 
ing to their religion) and (simply) sit saying ‘Hari’, ‘Hari,’, are 
really enemies of Hari, and sinners ; because, even Hari has 
taken birth for protecting religion”. Really speaking, such 
persons do not belong either to the fold of Samnyasins or of 
Karma-Yogins ; because, they do not give up woildly affairs as 
a result of Spiritual Knowledge and intense apathy towards 
the world, as is done by SamnySsins ; nor do they desirelessly 
perform the duties which have fallen on them as a result of 
the injunctions of the Sastras like Karma-Yogias, while they 
take part in worldly affairs. Therefore, these nominal 
Saihnyasins must be classified under a third category, which 
has not been mentioned in the (Hta. When ))eoplo acquire 
this neutral mentality from any cause whatscever. Religion 
cannot but ultimately be destroyed. This very state of things 
was responsible for the Farsi religion being tirown out of 
Iran, and the Yedic religion in India was also oa the point of 
being '‘samTilam ca mnasyaH” (i. e., “destroyed root and branch” 

•—Trans.) for the same reason; but the recrudescence of the 
Bhagavata religion enunciated in the Gita along with 
Vedanta after the fall of Buddhism, prevented this evil 
consequence from manifesting itself in our country. A few 
years before tlie Hindu dynasty of Daulatabad 'vas destroyed 
by Mahomedans, Jfianeswara Maharaj, by our good fortune, 
gave “ a native clothing ” to the Bhagavadgita, and brought 
* I have not come across this stanza in the edition of the 
Vianu-PnrSDa published in Bombay. Xet, as it htis been adopted 
by an honest Writer like Kamalakara Bhatta, I cannot say that it 
is without authority. 




706 


GiTA-RAHASYA OR KARMA-YOGA 


about an “ over-flow of the knowledge of the Brahman ” pro¬ 
pounded by the Gita into the Maharashtriya provinces ; and 
about the same time, other saints were preaching the Path of 
Devotion mentioned in the Gita, in other provinces. As the 
illustrious teaching of the Gita, which looked equably towards 
Mahomedans, Brahmins, and people of lower castes etc,, and 
which was based on Knowledge, was being preached on all 
sides simultaneously, although in the shape of Devotion 
combined with Renunciation, not only was the danger of the 
Hindu religion being totally obliterated averted, but it began 
to gain some kind of influence on the bigoted Mahomedan reli¬ 
gion, and to enter Mahomedan saints like Kabira and others ; 
and about the same time, Shahvada Dara, the elder brother of 
Aurangazeb, got the Upanisads translated into Urdu under his 
own supervision. If the Vedic Path of Devotion had been based 
on the pure ritualistic basis of Religious Faith, without being 
connected with Spiritual Knowledge, it is doubtful whether it 
would have retained this strength. But as this modern revival 
of the Bhagavata religion took place during the Mahomedan 
regime, it also w'as more or less devotional, that is, one-sided ; 
and the Karma-Yoga of the original Bhagavata religion, which 
had once lost its independent importance, did not regain it ; 
and the saints, philosophers and preceptors of this period 
began to say that Karma-Yoga was only a part of the 
Path of Devotion, instead of saying that it was a part of or a 
means in the Path of Renunciation. I think that the only 
exception to this then prevalent opinion is the works of Sri 
Samartha Ramadasa Svami; and any one who wishes to see 
the true glory of the Path of Action, in pure and inspired 
Marathi language, must .study the Dasabodha of Sri Samartha 
Ramadasa, and especially the latter portion of it. Sivaji 
Maharaj was blessed by the advice of Sri Samartha Ramadasa; 
and later on, when the necessity of explaining the elements 
of the Karma-Yoga was being felt in the time of the 
Marathas, prose translations were made of the Mahabharata, 
and not of the Sandilya-Sutras or of the commentary of the 
Brahma-Sutras, and they began to be studied in the form of 
bakhars ”, These translations are still kept in the library at 
Tanjore. If this course had been carried on further without 



CONCLUSION 


707 


interruption, one-sided commentaries on th3 Gita would 
have been loft in the back-ground, and the fact that the 
essence of Ethics and Morality in the Mahabharata has been 
described in the Karma-Yoga of the Gita, v ould certainly 
have been realised by people, lint, by our misfortune, this 
revival of ttui Karma-Yoga was not long-lived. 

This, however, is not the place to describe the religious 
history of India. My readers will have realised from the 
brief and .succinct statement made above, that the religion 
propounded in the Gita contains some sort of life, brilliance, 
and power; and that this power was not lost : n spite of the 
fact, that there was an intermediate fortuitous revival of the 
Saihnyas.i religion. The root meaning of the word ‘ (lliarma ’ 
(morality) is “ dhiimva/ dharmah" (i.e., “Morality is that 
which upholds”—Trans.); and it ordinarily falls into the 
two divisions, (1) ‘ dealing with life after deatli ’ {paralaukika) 
and (2) 'dealing with worldly life’ (i.’yavahili'ka), or (1) the 
philosophy c>f Release (mokm-dharma), and (i) Ethics (nUi- 
dhariiia), as has been stated by me in the third chapter. 
Whether you take the Vedic religion, or Buidhism, or the 
Christian religion, the principal object of each of them is that 
the world should be maintained and that man should 
ultimately attain Release; and therefore, each of these 
religions deals to some extent or other with woildly notions of 
Right and Wrong, simultaneously with the philosophy of 
Release. Nay, we may even say that in ancient times, no 
difference used to be made between the philosc phy of Release 
and worldly Morality; because, every one then fully believed 
that in order to obtain a proper state after death, one’s conduct 
in this world must also be pure. Not only was it so, but 
people used to believe that there is one and the same founda¬ 
tion for happiness after death as for happiness during life. 
But, as a result of the growth of the Material sciences, this 
belief has now lost ground in the Western countries, and 
people have begun (i) to consider whether Morality, that is, 
those rules by which the world is maintained, can or cannot be 
based on something other than the philosophy of Release, and 
(ii) to base Hooiology on a Materialistic, that is to say, a 
visible or perceptible foundation. But, how will ill the needs of 





708 


gita-rahasya oe karma-yoga 


human beings be satisfied by that which is only perceptible ?' 
Even the class-denoting words, ‘ tree ' man etc., carry an 
imperceptible idea. It is true that a mango-tree or a rose-tree 
are specific objects which are visible; but the common noun 
‘ tree ' does not specify any visible or perceptible object; and 
all our activities are of the same nature. From this it follows, 
that in order that the idea of the Imperceptible should come 
into the mind, it is necessary to have some percetible object 
before the eyes. But, it is equally true that the Percetible is not 
the final stage, and that we cannot take a single step forward 
or complete even a single sentence without the support of 
the Impercetible. Therefore, if one abandons the imperceptible 
idea of the Parabrahman in the shape of the Identity of the 
Atman in all created beings, which is taken as a foundation 
for Ethics from the point of view of Metaphysics, it still 
becomes necessary to worship as a God, “ the whole of 
mankind, ” which is a non-visible, that is, an imperceptible 
thing; and even ninety-nine per cent Materialistic philosophers 
have now begun to earnestly preach that we should include in 
mankind all the past and future generations, in order to satisfy 
the natural desire of human beings for immortality ; and that 
worshipping wholly, solely, and lovingly this magnified God, 
or spending one’s whole life in the service of it (mankind), or 
sacrificing one’s selfish interests for it, is the highest duty of 
every body in this world. This is the summary of the doctrines 
preached by the French philosopher Comte, and this religion has 
been given by him the pretty name of “Religion of the entire 
mankind” or shortly “Religion of Humanity”. ' The same is 
the case with the modern German philosopher Nietzsche. This 
philosopher has, in the nineteenth century of the Christian era. 
definitely proclaimed that “God is dead ”; and he says that 
Metaphysics is all bosh. Nevertheless, after admitting the 
doctrines of Causality and of Re-incarnation from the 
Materialistic point of view, he has admitted in all his books, 
Comte has named his doctrine the ‘‘ Religion of Humanity” ; 
and the whole of it has been expounded in his work A System of 
Positive Polity (Eng. trans. in four volumes). This book contains a 
very clever discussion of the question how society can be established 
and maintained even from the purely Materialistic point of view. 







CONCLUSION 


709 


that performing such action as can be again performed by us 
birth after birth, and having such an arrangement of society as 
will lead to the creation in future of such a hu nan animal as 
has all its mental faculties fully developed, and in a state 
of complete perfection, is the duty and the highest ideal 
of man in this world. From this it will be seen, that even 
those, v'ho d() not admit the science of Metaphysics, have tO' 
take something or other as the highest ideal in dealing with 
the question of Morality and Immorality, and that such ideal 
is in one way ‘imperceptible’ (amjdkta). Because, whether you 
ask people to worship the magnified deity in the shape of the 
‘whole ot mankind’, and to thereby bring about the benefit 
of the entire human kind, or you ask people to perform Action 
in such a way that at some time or other in the future a 
human being will be created which is in the most completely 
perfect state, both these ideals of the Materialistic moralists 
are invisible or imperceptible to the eyes of tliose for whom, 
this preaching is intended. Although this preaiihing of Comte 
and Nietzsche may be contrary to a purely Intuitionist 
devotional religion like Christianity, which is devoid of 
philosophy, yet, all the above-mentioned Materialistic 
ideals can without any difficulty be included in the highest 
ideals of the science of Morality and Immorality, or of Ethics, 
based on the foundation of (i) the ideal of the Realisation of 
the identity of the Atman in all created beings, or of (ii) the 
state of perfection of the Karrna-Yogin Sthitaprajha (one 
whose Reason has been steadied by the practice ot Karma-Yoga); 
and therefore, one need not entertain the fear that this 
Materialistic philosophy will ever give a set-back to the 
Vedic religion, which is replete with the Knowledge of 
the Absolute Self. If it is necessary to look upon the highe.st 
ideal as imperceptible, why should it be restricted to 
‘mankind’?; and even if the ‘State of Perfection’ is to be 
considered as the highest ideal, how is thf.t ideal better 
than the Materialistic ideal which is common both to man 
and animal ? These are the questions which now face us ; and 
when one attempts to answer these questions, one has 
ultimately to take shelter in the one, indescribable, highest 
Element, which is the foundation of the entire moveable and 




710 


GiTA-RAHASYA. OR KARMA-YOGA 


immoveable creation from the Metaphysical point of view. The 
Material sciences have had an unprecedented growth in modern 
times, and our knowledge of the visible world is a hundred 
times more extensive than before; and that Eastern nation which 
will fail to acquire the knowledge of those sciences, following 
the principle of measure for measure’, will undoubtedly fail 
to resist the onslaught of new civilised Western countries. 
But, however much the Material sciences may grow, the 
inherent tendency of the human mind to try to understand the 
Root Cause of the universe, will never be fully satisfied by 
Materialistic explanations. The knowledge of the perceptible 
world by itself does not account for everything; and even 
evolutionists like Spencer frankly admit that there must be 
some imperceptible Substance at the root of the Name-d and 
Form-ed visible world. But, they say that as it is impossible 
to understand the characteristic features of this permanent 
and eternal Substance, no science can be based on the 
foundation of .such a Suhstance. 'i’he German philosopher Kant 
also admits the inoognoscibility of the imperceptible Substance 
at the root of the creation; yet, he is of opinion that the 
science of Ethics must be based on this incognoscible 
Substance. Schopenhauer goes further, and maintains that 
this imperceptible Substance is of the nature of Desire, and 
the English Moralist Green maintains that this Substance at 
the root of the creation has been partially incarnated in the 
human body in the shape of the Atman ; and as for the Gita, 
it clearly says that, “marmivaviso jivaloke jivab/iufah sanalanah” 
(Gl. 15. 7), (i. e., “parts of My eternal essence take the form of 
Life, in the world of Life (the world of Action)”—Trans.). The 
writers of the Upanisads say that this imperceptible Substance 
at the root of the universe, is permanent, one, immortal, 
independent, and of the form of the Atman, and that nothing 
more can be said about it; and it is doubtful whether human 
knowledge will ever go beyond this conclusion; because, as 
the imperceptible Substance at the root of the world is invisible 
to the organs, that is, necessarily qualityless, this qualityless 
Substance cannot be described by any words which denote a 
quality, or an object, or an Action; and that is why it is called 
'ajneya' (unknowable). But though this knowledge, which we 






CONCLUSION 


711 


acquire of the imperceptible World-Substance, cannot be des¬ 
cribed to a greater extent in words, and though it may be small to 
all appearances, yet, as it is the sum and substance of all 
human knowledge, the exposition of worldly Ethics must be 
made by reference to it; and it will be apparent from the 
exposition made in the Gita that there cannot bn the slightest 
difficulty in the way of doing so properly. In order to properly 
understand how the thousands of activities in the world should 
be carried on—for instance, how commerce shcnld be carried 
on, how wars should be fought out, what medicine should be 
given to a sick person and in what circumstancs, or how one 
should measure the distances of the Sun and the \Ioon etc,—one 
will always need the knowledge of the Name-d and Form-ed 
visible world ; and in order to carry on this worldly activity 
more and more skilfully, one must undoubtedly study tlie^ 
Material sciences deeper and deeper. But that is not the 
subject-matter of the Gita. The chief object of the Gita is to 
explain which is the most excellent state of man from the. 
Metaphysical point of view, and to decide the fundamental 
principles of Ethics as regards the Doable and the Not-Doable 
on that basis. I have shown in the previous chapters that 
(i) although the Materialistic view is indifferent about Release 
which is the Metaphysical ideal, yet, that view is insufficient 
even for definitely deciding the elementary principles of 
Ethics; that (ii) that point of view cannot satisfactorily 
answer the moot questions of Freedom of Will, or the per¬ 
manence of ethical principles, or the inheren t desire in the 
human mind to attain immortality ; and that; (iii) one has- 
ultimately to necessarily enter into the question of the Atman 
and the Non-Atman. But the province of Metaphysics does 
not end there. And it must be borne in mind that the 
Materialistic theory of Happiness does not explain what the 
most perfect state of a human being is, as satisfactorily as it 
is explained by the science of Metaphysics, si ice the funda¬ 
mental basis of Righteous Action (saducarana) is the change, 
which takes place in the character or the nature of a man, as a 
result of the particular Peace {smdi) which is .acquired by the 
human Atman by the continual worship and direct Realisation 
of that Immortal Substance which is at the root of the world. 



712 


gIta-rahasya or karma-yoga 


Because, pure bodily pleasures are the ideal only of animals, 
and they can never fully satisfy the intelligence of an 
intelligent human being; and, it has already been fully 
explained in previous chapters, that Happiness and Unhappi¬ 
ness are transient, and that Duty is permanent. Looking at 
the matter from this point of view, it will be seen that (i)this 
most advanced religion of the Gita will never be found 
inferior to the purely Materialistic philosophy, which considers 
human actions from the point of view that man is only a 
superior kind of animal, since the religion relating to the life 
after death and the Ethics preached in the Gita, have both been 
explained with reference to the permanent and immortal 
World-Substance; that (ii) this our Gita religion is a 
permanent, undauntable religion; and that (iii) the Blessed 
Lord has not left the necessity for Hindus to rely on any other 
book, or religion, or opinion in this matter. Nay, the words 
"abhayam vai prapto'si”, i.e., “ Now, you have nothing to fear ” 
(Br. 4. 2. 4), which were addressed by Yajnavalkya to Janaka, 
after the entire Knowledge of the Brahman had been explained 
to him (Janaka), may literally and in several meanings, be 
applied to the religion of the Gita. 

The religion of the Gita, which is a combination of 
Spiritual Knowledge, Devotion, and Action, which is in all 
respects undauntable and comprehensive, and is further 
perfectly equable, that is, which does not maintain any 
distinction between classes, castes, countries, or any other 
distinction, but gives Release to everyone in the same 
measure, and at the same time shows proper forbrearance 
towards other religions, is thus seen to be the sweetest and 
immortal fruit of the tree of the Vedio Religion. In the Vedic 
Religion, higher importance was given in the beginning 
principally to the sacrifice of wealth or of animals, that is 
to say, principally to Action in the shape of ritual; but, 
when the Knowledge expounded in the Upanisads taught 
later on that this ritualistic religion of the Srutis was 
inferior, Saihkhya philosophy came into existence out of 
it. But as this Knowledge was unintelligible to 
ordinary people, and as it was specially inclined towards 
Abandonment of Action, it was not possible for ordinary people 



CONCLUSION 


713 


to be satisfied merely by the religion of the Upanisads, or by 
the unification of the Upanisads and the Saihkhya philoso¬ 
phy in the Smrtis. Therefore, the Gita religion fuses the 
Knowledge of the Brahman contained in the Upanisads, which 
is cognoscible only to the Intelligence,, with ihe ‘king of 
mysticisms’ fraja-i/iiliya} of the worship of the Perceptible 
which is accessible to Love, and consistently wit .i the ancient 
tradition of ritualistic religion, it proclaims i.o everybody, 
though nominally to Arjuna, that, “perform lifelong your 
several worldly duties according to your respecti% e positions in 
life, de.sireless]y, for the universal good, with a Self-Identifying 
vision, anc enthusiasticmlly, and thereby perpetially worship 
the deity i i the shape of the Paramatman (the Highest Atman), 
Which is [eternal, and Which uniformly pervades the Body of 
all created things as also the Cosmos; because, therein lies 
your happiness in this world and in the next”; and on that 
account, the mutual conflict between Action, Spiritual 
Knowledge (Juana), and Love (Devotion) is done away with, 
and tlie single Gita religion, which preaches lhat the whole 
of one’s life should be turned into a Sacrifice (Yajna), contains 
the essence of the entire Vedic religion. When hundreds of 
energetic noble souls and active persons were busy with the 
benefit of all created things, because they looked upon that as 
their duty, as a result of their having Realis jd this eternal 
religion, this country was blessed with the f rvour of the 
Paramesvara, and reached the hcigtit not only jf Knowledge 
but also of prosperity ; and it need not be said in so many 
words, that when this ancient religion, which is beneficial 
in this lift ami in the next, lost following in our country, it 
(our country) reached its present fallen state. I, therefore, 
now pray to the Paramesvara, at the end of this book, that 
there should come to birth again in this our country such 
noble and purs; men as will worship the Paramesv ara according 
to this equable and brilliant religion of the Gita, which 
harmonises Devotion, Spiritual Knowledge, and ICnergism; and 
I end this Exposition of the Mystic Import (lahasya) of the 
Gita by addressing to my readers the following hymn, with a 




714 


GITA-RAIIASYA. or KARMA-YOGA 


prayer that if there is any omission or excess in this book,, 
they should rectify such mistakes with an Equable vision:— 

samanl va aklUih saniana liTdayUni vah I 
samanmn astu vo rnano yaflia vah suHahU.'iali I 

yatha. vah .‘niaaJtU.'iali il 

O M-T AT-S AT-BR AHM AR PA N A M-AST G 
that is, 

{ OM-TAT-SAT ; this is dedicated to the Brahman,) 


+ This hymn has corao at the end of tho llg-Veda Samhita. 
This is a speech addressed to people assembled in a sacrificial pandal. 
It means: “Afay your opinions be uniform; may your hearts bo 
uniform, may you all bo of the same mind ; thereby you will acquire 
the strength of unity”, ‘asati’ is tho Vodic form of ‘asti’ (i. e., 
■may it be’ —Trans.). Tho words ‘'yalfiu rah .suKaJidnati” have been 
expressed twice, in order to show that the book has come to an end. 




APPENDIX. 

(PARIS'ISTA-PRAKARANA) 


AN EXTERNAL EXAMINATION OF I HE 
BHAGAVAD-GITA. 

aviditva THifn chando daivata/h yoc/din eva ca 1 

yo ’dliyupayi'j japed vdpi paplyafi jdyate hi mh II * 

(SMRTI). 

I havo in the ijrevious oliapters shown how Sri Krsna 
induced Arjana to fight, after ha'^ing proved to l im with the 
help of the \'edanta-Sastra that (i) the Karma-Yoga was more 
meritorious; that (ii) in the Kartna-Noga, Reason was the 
important factor; that (iii) Release was obtained by performing 
.Actions according to one’s own status in life wich a Reason 
which had become Etpiable as a result of the Realisation of 
the Identity of the Brahman and the Atman or by the worship 
of the Pararnesvara ; and that (ivl nothing else is necessary for 
obtaining RGear e, and that lie did this in order to correct Arjuna, 
who, afttjr having first visualised the actual form oJ the terrible 
destruction of the clan and of the community wh;ch was sure 
to arise on account of the Bharati war, was on the point 
of renouncing his duties as a soldier, and talcing up the life 
of an ascetic. When I have in tliis way defined the true 
import ol: the Gita, it i.s easy to meet the objections, which 
have been r lised, to the effect that ‘there is no reason to 
include the Gita in the Mahabharata etc,, is a result 
of the misunderstanding that the Gita is a book which deals 

« man who toadies or reeitos ;tiiy ineanlatii u ( mantra ) 

without knowing tho Rsl, metre, (c/mnda), deity (devata), and 
purpose (viniynya) of it, eojumits a, sin”. This is a statement from 
some Smrti text, hut I cannot liiid out from which tej t. But the 
root of it is in the Arsuya Bralimami Sriiti text (Arseja. 1). That 
is, as followis ;—yn ha va avidkdrxci/accAandodainatabrdhmanena 
mantrena ynjui/ati va ’dhydpayati va xthduiiiii varcchat. i/artam vd 
firatipadyat/; \ . the Hsi, metre, etc., of any iucant itiori are its 

external aspects ; and one should not recite the incant ition unless 
■one knows these aspects. Tho same ru.lc must be applied to a book 
like tho Gita. 



718 


GiTA-RAHASYA OR KARMA-YOGA 


purely with Vedanta and supports Inaction, Because, just as- 
SrI-Krsna had compelled Arjuna to abstain from murdering 
Yudhisthira, by explaining to him the difference between Truth 
{satya) and Falsehood {anrf.a) in the Karnaparva, so also was the 
advice given in the Gita necessary to induce Arjuna to fight; 
and considering the matter even from the literary point of 
view, it is clear that the exposition of the principles of Morality 
and Immorality in worldly life, or of the Doable and the 
Not-Doable, have been ultimately mentioned in the Gita, as 
it was necessary to mention in some place or other the 
fundamental principles underlying many similar incidents in 
various places in the Mahabharata. In the Vanaparva, in the 
conversation between the Hunter (vyaiiha) and the Brahmin, 
the Hunter has justified why he carries on the trade of soiling 
flesh on the authority of Vedanta; and in the conversation 
between Tuladhara and Jajali in the Santiparva, Tuladhara has- 
justified his profession of a merchant in a similar way 
(Vana. 206-315; and San. 260 -263). But this justification 
refers only to those respective imofessions. In the same way, 
though there are dissertations in several places in the 
Mahabharata on the questions of Non-Violence, Truth, etc,, 
yet, as they also are one-sidod, that is to say, are made only 
with reference to the subject-matter in que.stion, those disserta¬ 
tions cannot be said to be the principal part of the Mahabharata; 
nor do these one-sided dissertations explain whether or not 
people should take as illustrations the lives of those great 
persons like Sri Krsna and the Pandavas, for describing whose 
magnificent deeds, the Mahabharata was written by Vyasa, 
and should act accordingly. If worldly life is fruitless, and if it is 
the better course to take up the life of an ascetic sometime or 
other, one is faced with the questions why Sri Krsna or the- 
Pandavas should have taken part in these useless activities, 
as also why Vyasa should have laboured for three years (Ma, 
Bha, A. 63. 53), and written a book of nearly a hundred 
thousand verses for glorifying those activities for the general 
good, with whatever motive they might have taken part in 
those activities. These questions are not satisfactorily solved' 
by saying that the duties prescribed for the various castes and' 
the different stages of life are for the purification of the Mind ; 






APPENDIX 


719 


because, acting according to one’s duties, or the other activities 
of the world, occupy in any case only an infericr place from 
the point of view of tlie School of ileimnoiation. Therefore! 
it was neaa’ssary to answer the ahove-inentiomd objections, 
which cut like an axe at the roots {mTde kut'mmh) of the 
conduct of those no1)le souls, wliosi: lives had been described 
in the Mahabharata, and to explain in detail in some place or 
otlior in the IVIahabharata whctlier or not a mar. should take 
part in woj'ldly affairs, and if so, how a man should perform 
his various duties iii worldly life wifhout obstructing his own 
Release b;, such Action. Put it would not hll^■e been proper 
to (i;.'al with this sub.jeot-:u.liter in the Iv alopakhyana, 
Rat,iiopakb.yan.:i, and other subsidiary chapters in the 
Mahabharata ; heoanso, in that case, such an exposition would 
have been considered subsidiary like those subsidiary chapters. 
Also, if the Gita had l) 0 (,‘u crammed into the expcsition of the 
various subjects w'hioh liail been dealt with in the Vanaparva 
and the Sautiparva, it w'ould certainly have lost its importance; 
and that is why this indepfuiilont philosophy cf the Doable 
ami th(.' Nct-Doable has been dealt with, with all the arguments 
in .support o’' it, at the psychologi(;al moment when the 
Pdyogapaiva was over, and the .Bharatl war, the most 
important part of the Mnhaldiarata, w^as ab(5a1 to start, by 
raising to that war an objection, which ’viis seemingly 
uncon(iUerH])lo from the point of view of Morality. In short, 
oven if we keep aside for the time being the trac.itional story 
that Sri .K.[sna preached the Oita to Arjuna at tl;e commence¬ 
ment of the war, and con.sider the matter from the point of 
view that the Oita is a Vedic epic included in the Mahabharata 
for explaining Morality and Immorality, we will see that the 
place which has been ciiosen in the Bharata for the preaching 
of the Oita is such as is even poetically a most p ’Oper one for 
impressing the importance of the Gita on the minis of people. 
When the propriety of the subject-mattor of the Oita, as also 
of the place where it has been put in the MahabhE.rata has been 
explained in this way, the objection that there was no necessity 
to preach this Spiritual Knowledge on the baotle-field, and 
that the text must have been interpolated, into the Mahabharata 
at a later date, or the question whether ten si anzas or one 



720 


GiTA-EAHASYA OR KAEMA-YOGA 


hundred stanzas are the important stanzas in the Bhagavadgita, 
no longer remain; because, when it was once decided that 
certain subjects must for certain reasons be included 
in certain places in the Mahabharata, in order to explain 
Morality, and to justify the Bharata l)eing expanded into 
the Mahabharata, the writer of the Miihat)harata did not 
care how much space was taken up in fully expounding those 
subject-matters, as will be seen from the other chapters of the 
Mahabharata. Yet, as it is necessary to consider what amount 
of substance there is in the various other theories which have 
been advanced as regards the external examination of the Gita, 
and as I have now occasion to do so, f have in the following 
seven parts of this chapter, dealt tferialim witii seven of these 
subjects, namely, (1) the Gita and the Mahabharata, (2) the Gila 
and the Upanisads, (d) the Gita and the Brahma-Siitras, (4) the 
rise of the Bhagavata religion and the Gita, (5) the time or date 
of the Gita as it now exists, (0) the Gita and the Biiddlii.stic 
literature, and (7) tlie Gita and the Christian Bible, 1 must, 
however, make it clear to start with, that, as external critics 
examine the Mahabharata, the Gita, the Brabina-Sutras, the 
Upanisads etc,, merely as literature, that is, from the worldly 
and historical point of view, 1, also propose to deal with the 
above-mentioned subjects from the same points of view, 

PAET L—THE GITA AND THE MAHABHAEATA. 

The statement made by me above that the Gita, which 
supports Action, lias been included in the Malmbharata for 
sufficient reasons, and at a proper place, for morally justifying 
the lives of great persons like Sri Krsna, and that it must have 
been a part of the MahabliM'ata, is fully confirmed if one 
considers the construction of these two books. But before 
entering into .such a comparison, it is nccossary to briefly 
consider the present form of these two hooks. Sriinat Samkar- 
acarya has stated at the very outset in his cominontary on 
the Gita, that there are 700 stanzas in the Gita; and we find 
the same number of stanzas in all the available editions of 
the book. Out of these 700 stanzas, there is one stanza of 
Dhrtarastra, 40 of Sail jay a, 84 of Arjuna, and 575 of the 
Blessed Lord. But the Gita-Mahatmya (Eminence of the 



I -- The GITA AND THE MAHABHARATA 




Gita) of fi'^e and a half Ktunzas at the coniinenc.ement of that 
chapter ot tho Bhismaparva, which comes after the eighteen 
chapters o ' the Gita are over, that is, of the 43rd chapter of the 
Bhismaparva, in the oditiun of tho Mahabharata published at 
the Ganpai'j Krishnaji Press at Ihimhay, it is stattd that 

sdtSdtaid S(tr,'>itsiiid sf.okand'h pnilui kcsavah i 
'irjiuuik mpta/xulcfisid sri.pltihiip/ii'u hi, mimja /nh i 
■ lliriiirii.drah slokam. rkai'n (jUrupl ininuuii iici/i.lc ii 

that is ; " .11 the Gita, there arc (i30 stanzas of llesava, 57 of 
Arjuna, (i? of Sahjaya, and 1 of Dhrtarastra ”, in all 745 stanzas. 
These stan/as are to ho found in tho edr/ion of the 
Mahabharata printed by Mr. Kriabnacarya, acc/Ording to the 
reading atlopted in tho Madras Presidency ; hit we do not 
find them in the edition of the Mahabharata printed in 
Calcutta; and Nilakantha, who has written a commentary on 
the Bhfirata, Lias said with refcrcnco to these live and a half 
verses, that paiukiih wi piiUiijinihi'' (i.o., “they are not to be 
found in the Gauda, that is, Bengali, reading’’—Trans.). It 
would, therefore, appear that those live and a half stanzas 
have been interpolated into tho Maiuibharatii but even if 
these five and a lialf stanzas are considered an interpolation, 
yet, it is not po.ssiblo to say how these 45 stanzas, which are 
in excess ol the stanzas of the Gita whicli are new available, 
were obtained by anybody. As the Mahabharata is a very 
extensive treatise, it is possible to interpolate stanzas into it, 
or to t.ike away existing stanzas ; hut the same is not the case 
with the Gita. The Gita was a text in daily recital, and there 
were formerly many people and there are still some people, 
who can re])eat the whole of the Gita by heart in the same way 
as the Vedas. We do not come across many variant readings 
in the present Gita, and tlmt is why the few variant 
readings wliicli exist are well-known to the commentators. 
Nay, it may even be said that the Gita, has been made to 
contain e.xo.ctly 700 stanzas, in order that nobody should be 
in a po.sition to add to or take away from that number ; then, 
how have ^-5 stanzas—-and those too of the Blessed Lord—been 
included in the Gita in the Bombay and the Madras 
editions of the Mahabharata? The total numbsr of stanzas 




732 


GlTA-RAHASYA OR KARMA-YOGA 


attributed to Sanjaya and Arjuna is the same according to 
this arrangement, as in the present available editions of the 
Gita, namely, one hundred and twenty-four; and as there is a 
likelihood of ten other stanzas being attributed to Sanjaya, on 
account of difference of opinion, just as the seventeen stanzas 
jjasyami devan", etc,, in the eleventh chapter (11. 15-31) have 
been so attrilmted, one can say that although the total of the 
stanzas attributed to Saiijaya and Arjuna may be the same, 
there might have been a difference in counting the respective 
stanzas attributed to Arjuna and Sanjaya. But, one cannot 
account for the 45 additional stanzas, that is, for 620, instead 
of the now available 575 stanzas attributed to the Blessed 
Lord. If it is said that a praise {stotra) or ‘ a description for 
purposes of meditation ’ (dhyana) of the Gita or some other 
similar subject has been included in this chapter, then, not 
only is such subject-matter not to be found in the Bombay 
edition of the Bharata, but that edition has a Gita of only 
700 stanzas. Therefore, there is no alternative except to take 
as authoritative the present Gita of 700 stanzas. This 
disposes of the Gita. But if one considers the Mahabbarata, the 
difference in the matter of the Gita is as nothing. There is a 
statement in the Mahabbarata itself that it contains a hundred 
thousand stanzas; but we do not come across that number of 
stanzas in the now available editions of the Mahabbarata, and 
the number of chapters in the various Parvas is also not 
according to the index given in the beginning of the Bharata, 
as has been clearly proved by Rao Bahadur Chintamanrao 
Vaidya in his criticism on the Bharata. In these 

circumstances, one has to take in hand only certain definite 
editions of these two treatises for purpose of comparison ; and 
therefore, I have compared them by taking as authoritative 
the Gita of 700 stanzas, which was accepted as authoritative by 
Srimat Sarhkaracarya, and the edition of the Mahabbarata 
printed in Calcutta by Babu Pratapehandra Roy; and the 
references in this book to the stanzas quoted from the 
Mahabbarata are according to the above-mentioned edition of 
the Mahabbarata printed at Calcutta. If these verses have to 
be referred to in the editions printed by Krishnacharya 
according to the Bombav or Madras readings, thev will be 





I - The GITA AND THE MAHABHAKATA 7-^3 


found either in advance of or subse((uent to the place mentioned 
by me. 

If oni) compares the Gita of 700 stanzas and the edition of 
the Mahabhai-ata printed by Babu I’ratapchandra Roy at 
Calcutta, it will firstly be seen that it is stated in many places 
in the Mahablulrata itself tliat the Bhagavadgiti. is a part of 
the M.';ihahharata. 'the first of these references it in the index 
given in the second eluipter of the Adiparva. There is first 
a statement, wliere the various I’arvas have leen described, 
that ‘ pTirvnk/i./ii lil)((ijar(i<lijllujxin:a blitfiinavailiHi-i taUih" (Ma. 
Bha. A. :1. fi'.)); and at'ti'rvvard.s in enumerating flu chapters and 
tlie .str.nzas in the 18 parvas, there is a clear relerenoc to the 
Bhagavadgita in the description of Bhlsmaparva as ;— 

kasi'uihii'u ydini jH.nilnwja rdniiilrvn iiKilmniaHh i 

moh'ijd.t'i ita^dufiiiintiit lirliihlnr tnokmdariiihiah ii 

tliat is, ‘ in whicli treatise, Vasudeva has removed the 
dejection of Arjuna, due to Ignorance, by .showing him the 
Rath whicli loads to Release”, lii tlie same way, in the first 
chapter of the Adiparva, where Dhrtarastra is explaining his 
growing despair regarding tlie succcs.s of Duiyodhana and 
others, starting each stanza with tlie words “yae v srauNcm”, it 
is stated ,liat “wdiun Arjuna became confused, and Krsna 
showed to him His Co.smic Form, I despaired of victory” 
(Ma. Bha. A. 1. 17S)). After tliG.se three references in the 
Adiparva, it again hecame necessary to refer tc the Gita in 
describing the Narayaniya religion at the end of the Santiparva. 
Tlie four names Rarayaihya, Satvata, Ekantika, a id Bliagavata 
are sy aonymous; and tliis chapter explains the devotional 
energistic patii preached by Usl Harayana or hy the Blessed 
fjOrd to 71arada in tlie Svetadvipa. (San. 331. 351). The 
underlying principle of this Bliagavata religion is, that by 
worshipping Viisudeva in solitude, and liy carrying on one’s 
dutie.s in the world according to one's religion, one attains 
Release ; and I have already shown in previous chapters that 
it has also been maintaiiiod in the Bluigavadgita, that the 
Karma-Yoga is superior to the Path of Renunciation. In 
describing the tradition of this Narayaniya doctrine, 
YaLsampSyiiiia says to .Janamejaya that this doctrine had been 




724 


GiTA-RAHASYA OR KARMA-YOGA 


preached to Narada by Narayana Himself, and that the same 
doctrine has been '‘kathifo HARIGTTASU ,'tam.asavkljii kalpatah’'' 
(Ma. Bha. San. 346. 10), i. e., “mentioned in the Harigita or the 
Bhagavadglta”. It is also stated later on in the eighth stanza 
of the 348th chapter, that: 

sumii'poiUii' !yvaiitkcsu kiirupondavdijnv mriHii- I 
arjdvfl viimm^la^ ai i/Ud bli(u;<i.ratd ftviiyiiin ii 
that is, “these rites of the solitvidinal {idhhtUka) Nfirayauiya 
doctrine, were taught by the Blessed Bord to the dejected 
Arjiina on the occasion of the war between the Kauravas and 
the Pandava.s”; and the tradition of tlic Narayaiiiya doctrine 
in that war has been given there; and it Ls again stated that 
this path, as also the path of ascetics, that is, the Path of 
Renunciation, have both been mentioned in the HARIGITA, 
(Ma. Bha. San. 348. 53). Besides the.se si.x, references in the 
Adiparva and the Santiparva, there is also one more reference 
to the Bhagavadgita in the Anuglta])arva included In the 
Asvamedhaparva. Some days after the Bharatl war was over, 
and Yudhi^thira had been placed on the throne, when Sri 
Krsna and Arjuna were one day sittiiig together, and Sri 
Krsna had said to Arjuna : “ft is no more neces.sary for me 
to stay here; I wish to go to Dvarakfi”, Arjuna said to Him, 
that he had forgotten what Sri Knnni had preached at the 
commencement of the war, and retiuested Him to preach the 
same thing again (Asva. 16). Tlien, to satisfy this request, 
Sri Krsna preached the Anugila to Arjuna btifore going to 
Dvaraka. In the beginning of this AnugUa, the Blessed Lord 
has Himself said that: “It is your misfortune that you have 
forgotten the advice which I gave to you in the commencement 
of the war. It is impossible for Me to repeat the same advice 
in the same way again, and therefore f will tell you instead 
something else” (Ma. Bha. Asva. Anugita 16. 9-13); and some 
of the chapters of the Anugita are similar to those of the Gita. 
The Gita has thus been referred to SEVEN times in the 
Mahabharata, including this reference. Therefore, it follows 
from the intrinsic evidence in the Mahabhai-ata itself, that the 
Bhagavadgita is a part of the pre.sent Mahabharata. 

But, as the course of doubts is uncontrolled, some persons 
are not satisfied even by these seven references, and they 




I - Thk GITA and the MAHABHAEATA Hd 


inquire why it may not be said that these references were 
themselves also interpolated into tl\e Mahabharata afterwards ; 
and tlius their doubt as to whether or not the GUa was a part 
of the Maliabharata still remains. This doubt has its origin 
in the idea that the Gita deals only with the Knowledge of the 
Braluuan. But, as I have already shown that t lis idea, itself 
is incori-Gct, this doubt should, strictly speaking:', not remain. 
Nevertheless, instead of depending sole.ly on this evidence, I 
shall no^^ .show, by reference to other evidence also, that this 
doubt is unfennded. When there is a, doubt v lietlier or not 
two work' wei-e written by one and tlie same author, literary 
critic.'-' c’cn.sider two matters iri the first place, namely, 
BIMIhAlMTA OF DlGTIGN and SIMll.AKITY OF 
MEANIh T. Out of those, similarity of diction includes not 
only tlie words themselves, Inil also the composition. 
Considering the matter from this point of view, one must see 
to w'hat extent tlie diction of the Glfei is similar t ) the diction 
of the Maha diarata. But as the Mahablmra'.a is a \'ery 
exteiis.vc- work, the diction in it varies acc'oaling to the 
occasion, For instance, if one refers to the desoiiption of the 
fight betwu n iCarna and Arjuiia in the Karnapaiva, it will be 
seen that tie diction in tliis purva is dilTerent from the diction 
of the othc'.' parts of the Mahabharata. 'Hierefore it is difficult 
to definitoiv .say w'hetlier or not the language o;' the Gita i.s 
similar to Ur language of the Mahaldiarata. But if one 
consider,' the matter in a general way, Llien, as Mr. Ka.shinatli 
Trimbtik Telangsays, the language and Ihe metrical 
arrangement of the Gita is archaic (arm) or ancient, for 
instance, Kasliinathpant has shown that the meanings in which 
the wortls 'anUi (Gt. 16), 'hliliMi.' (Gl. 'Z. 54), ‘Brahma’ 
{—prukrti. Gi. 14. 3), ‘Yoga’ ( = Karma-Yoga), and the consonant 
'kd' used fo.i’ completing the meter (Gi. Z.d) etc. have been used 
■■■' I'iu; translation of tire Hhagavarlgita made by the late 
Mr. Kafiiiatli Trimbak Telang, has boon published : n the Saereil 
Books of tlu Eii.st Series Vol. VIll, edited by lYof.Miac Muller. To 
this translation, a critical diasortation has been added by him by wa\' 
of introduction in the English language. The rofereiice.s nmde to 
the epinioES of the late Mr, Telang in this Appendix are (with one 
exeeptiou) tc thi.a introduction. 




726 


GiTA-RAHASYA OB KARMA-YOGA 


in the Gita, do not appear to have been used in the same sense 
in the poems of Kalidasa etc.; and we come across the form 
“namaskrfvay in stanza 11. 35, and a compound like “safoyaa/tam” 
in stanza 11. 45, though as variant readings, which are contrary 
to the grammar of Panini. Also in the phrase “miunlnam ahani 
fikandah” (Gi. 10. 24), the sixth case (possessive) form 
“senanwunr is not correct according to Panini. The late 
Mr. Telang has not given detailed illustrations of archaic 
metrical construction. But I think that he has called the 
metrical arrangement of the Gita ‘archaic’ {Ursa) with special 
reference to the 36 stanzas in the eleventh chapter, which 
contain the description of the Cosmic Porni (Gi. 11. 15-50). 
In each stanza, out of these 36, there are eleven letters to a 
line. But there is no meter which is consistently followed, and 
we find that if one lino is in the itidravajra meter, the second 
is in the ii.pi>ndravajrU, the third in the sulini, and the fourth 
one in a different meter altogether; and there are thus eleven 
different meters to be found in these 36 verses, that is, 144 
lines. Nevertheless, each line contains only eleven letters, 
and the rule seems to be followed that the first, fourth, eighth 
and the last two letters are long {guru) and the sixth one is usually 
short (laghu)-, and therefore, an inference may be drawn that these 
stanzas have been written in the Irisiiipa metre used in the 
Rg-Veda or in the IJpanisads. We do not come across 
odd-numbered meters of eleven letters to a line Tike this in any 
poem of Kalidasa. In the ffakimUdu, the stanza: ‘'ami vediiii 
paritah klpiadhisnyiih” is in this meter. But Kalidasa himself 
has described this meter as ‘Rk.-chanda’ that is, a meter used 
in the Rg-Veda. From this it is clear that the Gita wa.s 
written when archaic meters were in vogue. We come across 
similar archaic words and Vedic metres in other places in the 
Mahabharata. But another convincing proof of the similarity 
of diction of the two books is the similar stanzas to be found 
in the Mahabharata and in the Gita. Examining all these 
stanzas in the Mahabharata and ascertaining correctly how 
many of them are to be found in the Gita is a very difficult 
task. Yet, in reading the Mahabharata, I found stanzas 
in it which are either word for word similar to the stanzas in 
the Gita, or are similar but with slight verbal alterations, and 




t - The GITA and the MAHABHARATA 


727 


these are not a few in number. This easily solves the question 
of the similarity of language or diction. We find the 
following stai'.zas or semi-stanzas either word for word the 
same or with only one or two words different in ohe G ita and 
in the Mahabh.irata (Calcutta edition):— 


GITA. 

1. y, iiUtn sli^lra pmliaratia 
etc. 

(seaii-staiiza). 

1. lU. (iix'njnphn'ii etc. 

(wlioie stanza) 

1. 12 -ly, {.Eight stanzas) 


1. 45. (dh) hitta intdw.tpu}Kifn 

etc. 

(whole stanza) 

2. 19, ubl.ua tail na vijUnilah 

etc. 

(semi-stanza) 

2, 28, avij'iktadlni Idtlddni etc. 
(whole stanza) 


2. 31, dliarmiiaddhi yuddhac 
rhri’!j(/ (itc. 

(semi-stanza) 

2. 32, uui! drcchaiju etc, 
(whole stanza) 


MAHABlfiLRATA. 

Bhisma-parva 5 L, 4. As in the 
Gita, Duryod lana is again 
describing lis army to 
Droiiacarya. 

Bhisma. 51. 6. 

Bhisma. 51. 22-29, The stanzas 
are just the same as in 
the Gita, with slight 
verbal altera Tons. 

Droiia. 197. 50. Simeasinthe 
Gita, with slight verbal 
alterations. 

Santi. 224. 14. In the Baliva- 
sava-samvadt., with verbal 
alterations ; and in the 
Kathopanijad (2. 18). 

Stri. 2. 6; 9, 11. Instead of 
‘ (imjaklu the word 
‘ abhUva ' i.s used ; rest is 
the same, 

Bhisma. 124. 36. Bhisma says 
the same words to Karna. 

Karna. 57. 2. Instead of 

‘ Partha ’, the word ‘Karna’ 
is used in the conversation 
between Duryodhana and' 
Karna. 




728 


GiTA-EAHASYA OR KABMA-YOGA 


2. 46, yavan artha udapane 
etc. 

(whole stanza) 

2. 59, vimyu vinivartante etc. 
(whole stanza) 


2. 67, indriyandm hi carafdiit 

etc. 

(whole stanza) 


2. 70, upuryamdriam 
pralisthdiu etc. 
(whole stanza) 

'3. 42, mdriydxii 
etc. 

(whole stanza) 


4. 7, yaduyaddhi dlnrmisiyu 
etc. 

(semi-stanza) 

4. 31, ndya/h loko ’stya yajm- 
sya etc. 

(semi-stanza) 

4. 40, ndyam loko \di iia 
paro etc. 

(semi-stanza) 


Udyoga. 45. 26. Has appeared 
with slight verbal altera¬ 
tions in the Sanatsujatlya 
chapter. 

Santi. 204. 16. Has appeared 
word for word in the 
conversation between 
Mann and Brhaspati. 


Yana. 189. 27. Has appeared 
word for word in the 
Markandeyai)rasna. 

Santi. 267. 40. Has appeared 
in the Gokapillya chapter, 
and the whole chapter 
deals with the Yajha. 

Vana. 199. 110. Has appeared 
word for word in the 
Markandeya - s a in a s y a - 
parva. 


Vana. 210. 26. Has appeared 
with slight verbal altera¬ 
tions in the conversation 
between the Brahmin and 
the Hunter; and there is 
also the ‘ rupaka ’ (simile) 
of the chariot in the 
earlier portion. 

Santi. 250. 9. Has appeared 
word for word in the 
Sukanuprasna. 

Has 

appeared with slight ver¬ 
bal alterations twice in 
the Sukanuprasna; but 
this stanza is originally 
from the Kathopanisad 
(Katha. 3. 10). 


acala 


paranyahuh Santi. 245. 3 and 247, 




I - The GITA AND THE MAHABHARATA 


739 


-3. 5, ynt Haiakhyuth pnipijal.e 

sthana'u etc. 

(whole stanza) 


5. 18, vidya l inayn sainpaHiu- 
etc. 

(w lole stanza) 

■fi. 5, almuivii liy Ulnimnj 
})arulhi-,h etc. 

(semi-stanza and half 
of tlie next stanza) 

6. 29, survnhhTdasIhani dlind- 
iin>h etc. 

(semi .stanza) 


44, ji.jvn.Hwr dpi ydyd.'Oja 
etc. 

(semi .stanza) 

S. 17, .'Sdiid.'tnt yippi pdryaii- 
Idin etc. riiis .stanza ha.s 
bei3n giviiU in the Gita 
without fir.st explaining 
w’hat ' yiiya' mean.s. 


8. 2(1, yrh ,s(/, sarvidiu. idiuttyu 

etc, 

(semi -stanza) 


Santi. 305. 19 and 316. 4. Has 
appeared ; t these two 
places with slight verbal 
alterations in the con¬ 
versation between Vasis- 
tha and Karala and bet¬ 
ween Yajh ivalkya and 
.Janaka, lespectively. 

Santi. 238. 19. Has appeared 
word for word in the 
Siikanuprasna. 

IJdyoga. 33. (I3, 64. Has 

ap]3eared word for wmrd 
in the Viduranlti. 

Santi. 238, 21, In the Sukfinu- 
prasna, anc also in the 
Manu-Smrti (Manu.13.91), 
Isavasyopanisad (Isa. 6) 
and literally in the Kai- 
valyopanisal (Kai. 1. 10). 

•Santi. 335. 7. Has appeared 
with slight verbal altera¬ 
tions in the Sukanuprasna. 

Santi. 331. 31. Has appeared 
literally in the Snkanu- 
prasna; and the method 
of computation of a ‘ yiiga ’ 
ha.s also l»e 311 mentioned 
previously. This has 
appeared with slight 
verbal alteration,s also in 
the Mann-Smrti (Mann, 
1. 73). 

.Santi. 339, 33. Has appeared 
twice witii slight verlial 
alterations in the Nara- 
vanlva-dharma. 



730 


GITA-RAHASYA OR KARMA-YOGA 


9, 32, drvuo vaisyuf; tat ha etc. 
(whole stanza and half 
of the next stanza) 

13. 13, aarmtah punipadahi 

(whole stanza) 


13. 30, yada bhUtu pTthag 
hhavam etc, 

(whole stanza) 

14. 18, urdhvaiti (laccluinti 
satvastha etc. 

(whole stanza) 


16. 31, trividhai'n namlcusy eiiavt 
etc. 

(whole stanza) 

17. 3, sraddhamayo yaih pura- 
sah etc., 

(semi-stanza) 

18. 14, adhidhdnam tathu karta 
etc. 

(whole stanza) 


Asva. 19. 61 and 63. These’ 
verses have appeared with 
slight verbal alterations 
in the Anugita. 

Santi. 338. 39. and Asva. 19, 49. 
This stanza has appeared 
word for word in the 
Sukaiiuprasna and in the 
Anugita a^also in other 
places. It is originally 
from the Svetas vataro- 
panisad (Sve. 3. 16), 

Santi, 17. 33. The same words 
have been addressed by 
Yudhisthira to Arjuna. 

Asva. 39. 10 This stanza has 
appeared word for word 
in the conversation 
between the disciple and 
the preceptor in the 
Anugita. 

Udyoga. 33. 70. Has appeared 
word for word in the 
Viduraniti. 

Santi. 363. 17. Has appeared 
in the portion on Devotion 
in the conversation bet¬ 
ween Tuladhfira and 
Jajali. 

Santi. 347. 87. Has appeared 
word for word in the 
Narayanlya-dharma. 


In this way, it is seen that 27 whole stanzas and 12 
semi-stanzas appear sometimes word for word the same, and 
sometimes with slight verbal differences both in the Maha- 
bharata and in the Gita; and if a more thorough examination 
is made, there is a likelihood that one may come across many 




]—THE GiTA AND THE MAHABHAIIATA 


731 


other stanzas and semi-stanzas which are common to both- 
If one wishes to see in how many places there are common 
combinations of two words or three words, or of quarter 
portions of a stanza, which are common to the Mahabharata 
and to the Gita, the above-mentioned list will have to be 
considerably increased"^ But, if we leave aside the similarity 
of words, and consider merely the question of similarity of 
stanzas in the above list, wo cannot but say that the 
Mahabharata and the Gita must have been written by the 
same harid. Gonsidering the matter with re’erence to the 
different chapters, we see that out of the above-mentioned 
33 stanzis, 1 comes in the Markandeya-prasna, 4 in the 
Markandfya-sainasya, I in the Brahmin-Hunter conversation,. 
2 in the Viduranlti, 1 in tlie Sanatsujatlya, ] in the Manu- 
Brhaspati conversation, 6.1 in the Sukanu-prasna, 1 the 
Tuladharfb-Jajali conversation, 1 in tlie Vasistlia-Karala and 
Yajnavalkya-Janaka conversation, l.l in th 3 Narayanlya- 
dharma, in the Anugita, and tlie rest in the Bhisma, Drona, 
Karnu, ar cl Btri pa rvas; and in almost all these places, these 
stanzas liavo come at proper places with reference to the 
anterior and posterior contexts and are not interpolations- 
Nay. soma of these stanzas seem to have been taken into the Gita, 
by way oJ' summarising. For instance, in orde ■ to understand 
the stanza “ mliaftnc ijugu paruantairi” etc. (Gi. 3. 17), it would 
have been necessary to define the words ‘ varsa' and 'ytiga 
and in the Bharata (San. 231) and the Manu-Smrti, this stanza 
has been given after first defining these words. But in the 
Gita, this stanza has been mentioned without defining ‘ yuga " 

* If one considurs the whole of the Mnhabhi.rata from this, 
point of view, there will be at least a hundred simiiar portions of 
stanzas • but I will mention only a few out of them here: ii7rt 
Ihogair jivilemt vTi (Gi. 1. 32)5 tiaitat vay tipitpadyile (GI. 2, 3) • 
trliyale mahato hhaydt (2. 40); asuntasya kutuh sikhath (2. 66 ); 
ut&ldeyur ime h>k'ith (3. 21) ; mano duniigraham cala.h ( 6 . 35 ) ; mam 
alma hhatahhTivanah (9. 6 ) ; moyhaid mogha karmana} (9. 12) ; samah 
sarve.7u hhutept (9. 29) ; diptanaldrkadyutim etc. (11, 17); sarva bhutahite 
ratdh (12. 4) ; lulya nindd stulih (12. 19); mintu^pt yeno kenacit (12. 19); 
samalostakma kTnhcanah (14. 24); trividAd karmacodand (18. 18) ; 
nirmamah iuntah (18. 63) ; brahmabhuydya kalpaU (18. .')3) ; etc., etc.. 





73 ^ 


GITA-EAHASYA OB KARMA-YOGA 


etc. Considering the matter from this point of view, it cannot 
be said that these stanzas could have been adopted from the 
Gita into the various chapters of the Mahabharata; and it is 
improbable that all these stanzas have been taken into the 
Gita from all those various chapters. Therefore, one is bound 
to come to the conclusion that the writer of the Gita must 
have been the same as the person who wrote these chapters. 
I must also mention here that, just as, many stanzas from the 
Manu-Smvti find their way into the Mahabharata, so also can 
we trace to the Manu-Smrti, the whole of the stanza “ sahasra 
ijiuja pa7'ynntam ” (8. 17) in the Gita, with slight verbal 
alterations; and the semi-stanza “ srenun svadharino vigunah 
parndluirmut smnufithitat” (Gi. 3. 35 and Gi. 18. 47) with the 
alteration that instead of ‘ sreijdn ’, the word ‘ varam ’ has been 
used; and the semi-stanza “ mrva h/iTilafilham UtiiiUna/'/t” 
(Gi. 6, 39 ), with the variation “sm-va hhTi.tesa vdtniana/h” 
<Manu. 1. 73; 10. 97; 12, 91). In the Anusasanaparva of the 
Mahabharata, there is even a clear reference to the Manu- 
Smrti in the words “ inanimd hhihitafn sUsliwh ” (Anu. 47. 35). 

If instead of considering the similarity of words, one 
considers the similarity of meaning, the same conclusion is 
fortified. I have in previous chapters shown the similarity 
between the Karma-Yoga of the Gita and the Energistic 
Bhagvata or Narayaniya religion. It is true that the genesis 
of Saihkarsana from Vasudeva, Pradyumna from Samkarsaiia, 
Aniruddha from Pradyumna, and Brahmadeva from Aniruddha, 
being the genesis of the visible world mentioned in the 
ISlarayanlya-dharma (Han. 339. 71, 73) has not been adopted in¬ 
to the Gita. There are besides other differences between the 
I'Gligion of the Gita and the hlarayaniya religion. But, although 
the idea of the four-fold (cLitur-vydha) Paramesvara is not 
accepted by the Gita, yet, if one considers the propositions of 
the Gita that, (i) the devotion to the singular (eka-rijului), 
Vasudeva is the ‘king of paths’; that (ii) whatever other deities 
are worshipped, that amounts to the wmrship of Vasudeva; 

® Prof. Biilher has, in liis translation of the Manu-Hmrti, 
l)ablislied in the Saered Books of the East Series (Vol. XXV, 
pp. 533, et seq.), included a list of the stanzas from the Maim-Sinrti 
which are to be found in the Mahabharata. 





I -TllE GITA AND THE MAHABHARATA 733 


that (iii) cievolees are of four kinds; that (iv) devotees of the 
Blessed Lord must perform their duties according to their 
religion, and keep going the cycle of Yajilas; and that (v) it is 
not prcjper to take to Renunciation {siiviiinam) otc., one comes 
to the corjclusion that the Gita religion is the same as the 
Bhagavatii religion ; and ns I have stated before, the tradition 
of Vivasvaii-Manu-lksvaku is common to both. In the same 
way, tHe Ved.inta or the Spiritual Knowledge expounded in 
the Gita is consistent with the Knowledge of the Brahman 
as menti'jned in the Saiiatsujaliya, the Sukami-prasna, 
the Ya.jnavalkya-Jatiaka conversation, or the Anugita, as 
will be appreciated by any one who reads taose chapters. 
Just as the GUa, wliile accepting the 35 Fundamental Elements 
of Kapilr.-Samkbya pliilosojdiy, and the doctrine of the 
efflorescence of the constituents {i/unoflcarHa) yet accepts 
as Eternal, a further Element beyond Brakrti (Matter) 
and Puriisa (.Spirit), s(.) also has it been maintained in 
detail, in l.he Vasislliu- Karala-.danii,ka conversation, and in the 
Yajhavalliya-Junaka conversation in the Santiparva that 
there is a ‘ Udth ’ Element beyond the 25 Elements, and 
that one docs not obtain Isolation {kaivdUja) unless one has 
accjuired the Kno'.\'ledge of tiiat ‘ dfith ’ Element. It is not 
that this similarity of ttiought appears only vitli reference 
to Karma-Yoga and Spiritual Knowledge; but there are 
many chaptt;rs to bo found in tlie Mahabharata which 
correspond with the other subsidiary subjects in the Gita. 
Eor instance, in the hoginuing of the first c lapter of the 
Gita, Diiryodhaiia has described I)oth the ar/nies to Dronacarya, 
and he has again given the same de,scriptiou later on in the 
51st chapter of the B!iismaj)arva to Dronacarya. Tiiere is 
in the beginning of the Santiparva, a dejectior expressed by 
Yudhisthira, which is similar to the dejection experienced by 
Arjuna in the latter ])art of the lirst chapter of Jie Gita ; and 
when there was ocAiasion to kill Btusma and Drcna by ‘ Yoga’. 
Arjuna has again uttered similar word.s of dejeition (Bhisma. 
97, 4^7 and 108. 8S-94). Arjuna has .said in the begirming 
of the Gita that it was no use obtaining victory if he were 
to kill tiiose very per.sons for wlioin that happiness was to 
be ac(iuir(id (Gl. 1, 32, 33); and later on, after all the Kauravas 



734 


orrA-RAHASYA or KARMA-YOGA 


had been killed in the war, Dnryodhana has given expression 
to the same sentiment (Salya. 31. 42-51). As in the beginning 
of the second chapter, two different paths, namely, the Samkhya 
and the Karma-Yoga have been mentioned, so also have two 
paths been described not only in the Narayanlya-dharma, 
but also in the Japakopakhyana, and the Janaka-Sulabha 
conversation in the Santiparva (San. 196 and 320); and the 
ideas expressed in the third chapter that Karma (Action) is 
superior to akarnia (Inaction), and that if one does not perform 
Action, he will not find even food to eat, are expressed in the 
beginning of the Vanaparva by Draupadi to Yudhisthira 
(Vana. 32); and the same ideas have been repeated again in 
the Anugita. The idea that Brahmadeva created the Yajha 
and human beings at the same time etc., which appear in the 
Gita, appear also in other places in the Santiparva, besides 
in the descriptions of the Narayaniya religion (San. 267), and 
also in the Manu-Smrti; and the idea that there is no sin in 
performing Action according to one’s own religious duties, has 
also appeared in the Tuladhara-Jajali conversation, and 
in the Brahmin-Hunter conversation ( San. 260-263 and Vana, 
206-215). Besides this, the little information which the Gita 
contains regarding the creation of the Cosinos, in the seventh 
and eighth chapters, is similar to the description of such 
creation given in the Sukanuprasna in the Santiparva 
(San. 231); and the information regarding the various 
physical postures (asana) prescribed in the Pataujala-Yoga, 
which appears in the sixth chapter of the Gita is again 
repeated in detail in the Sukanupra.sna (San. 239), and later 
on in the 300th chapter of the Santiparva and also in the 
Anugita (Asva. 19). The description of ordinary and best 
things given in the conversation between the preceptor and 
the disciple (Asva. 43 and 44), and the description of the 
manifestations of the Blessed Lord given in the tenth chapter 
of the Gita, may without the slightest doubt be said to be 
exactly the same in meaning. It is stated in the Maha- 
bharata that the Cosmic Form which was shown by the Blessed 
Lord to Arjuna, was also shown by Him to Duryodhana and 
others at the time of previous conciliatory efforts, and to 
Uttanka, after the war was over, when Sri Krsna was 




I— The GITA AND THE MAHABHS.RATA 735 


going back: to Dvaraka; and also that it was shown by 
Narayana to Narada, and by Dasarathl Rarna to Parasu- 
rama. ( U 130; Asva. 55; San. 339 ; Vana, 99 ). It is true 
that the description of the Cosmic Form g'iven in the 
Gita, is more detailed and beautiful than the descriptions 
in all these four places; hut considering the matter from 
the point of view of similarity of subject, there is nothing 
new in the description in lire Gita, as wi 1 be clearly 
seen by anybody who rear s these various descriptions. 
There are to bo found descriptiens in tire Anuglta (Asva. 36-39), 
and also in other places in thr Santiparva (Sin. 285; and 
300-3J1) as to how diversity comes into being in the world 
as a result of the mitva, rajas, and lamas consiiituents, what 
the oharaciteristic features of ttese constituents are, and how 
all the activity is of these cons'.ituents and not of the Atman, 
which are similar to the deso nptions in the 14th and 15th 
chapters of the Gita. In short, although the description of 
certain things given in the Gita may be more exhaustive, 
having regard to the occasion where it appears in the Gita, 
and although the arrangement of those various subjects may 
also be different in the Gita, yet, we come across ideas in the 
MahabhSrata which are more or less the same as those in 
the Gita, but are spread out in some place o’' other; and I 
need not say that with this sinilarity of ideas there is also 
to some extent a similarity of liotion. The similarity in the 
matter of the month of Marganrsa is indeed astounding. As 
this montli has been given primary importance in the Gita, 
as is shown by the words “ mdmnam margashsii 'ham” (Gl. 10. 
35), so also, where there was twice occasion 1o mention the 
names of months with reference to fasting in the Anusasana- 
parva of the Mahabharata, tl e counting of t le months has 
been started with Marga-sirsa (Anu. 106 and 109). The 
ideas of iSelf-Identification, or of universal good, as also the 
difference between the Mate dalistic, Intuitiouist, and Meta¬ 
physical aspects, and the description of the Devayana and 
the l^itryana paths taken after death, which appear in the 
Gita, have also appeared several times in the Mahabharata; 
but as this has been dealt wit i in great detail in the previous 
chapters, I shall not repeat the same subject-matter here. 




736 


GITA-EAHASYA OR KARMA.-YOGA 


Whether one considers the similarity of diction, or the 
similarity of subject-matter, or the six or seven references to 
the Gita, which we find in the Mahabharata, one cannot but 
come to the conclusion that the Gita is a part of the 
Mahabharata, and that the same man who wrote the Maha¬ 
bharata as it now exists, must also have written the Gita as 
it now exists. But, I have seen people attempting to disregard 
all those proofs, and to dispose of them with scant respect in 
some way or other, and to prove tliat the Gita is an inter¬ 
polation. But, in my opinion, the line of reasoning adopted 
by these critics, who treat external evidence as no evidence, 
and who yield to the domination of the demon of doubt in 
their hearts, is illogical, and therefore, unacceptable. If it 
could not be reasonably explained why the Gita should be a 
part of the Mahabharata, it would be a different matter. But, 
when it is proved, as has been stated in the beginning of this 
Appendix, that (i) the Gita is not a purely devotional treatise, 
or one which deals purely with Vedanta; that (ii) it was 
necessary to preach the Activlstic Gita, in order to explain 
the principles of Morality, or the undercurrents which guided 
the lives of exemplary great men, as described in the 
Mahabharata, and that (iii) there was no better place, even from 
the poetic view-point, for placing the Gita, than the place in 
which it appears in the Mahabharata, one comes to the 
necessary conclusion that the Gita has been included for 
proper reasons and at the proper place in the Mahabharata, 
and that it is not an interpolation. The Rarnayana is also 
an excellent and a universally respected archaic epic like 
the Mahabharata; and in it also the principles of 
veracity, filial duty, maternal duty, regal duty etc., 
have been cleverly explained with reference to the 
various incidents in it. But, as it was not the original 
intention of Valnilki to make that epic “replete with many 
incidents, full of numerous doctrines regarding Morality and 
Immorality, and capable of giving to everybody exemplary 
illustrations of properly moral lives”, it goes without saying 
that the importance of the Mahabharata is greater than that 
of the Rarnayana, from the point of view of the decisions 
contained in them respectively with reference to Morality and 






1— The GfTA and '.'HE MAHABHAilATA 


737 


Tiiunorality, the Doable and tie Not-Doable, and Ethics. The 
Mahabhai ata is not merely ar epic or merely a history, but 
it is a Sanihita (summary) dealing with delicate situations of 
Duty and Non-Duty ; and if such a religious epTome does not 
contain the scientific and logical description of the Philosophy 
of Karma-Yoga, where else coi Id it come V Sue r an exposition 
could certaiiily not luivo bee i included in a treatise which 
deals merely with Vedanta. Anei)itomeof religion is certainly 
the most proper place for it; and if the writer of the 
Mahnbliarata had not so included it, this immense book, which 
deals with religious and moial duties—which is in fact the 
fifth Veda—would to that extent liave remaired incomplete. 
The Bliagavadgita lias been included in the Mahabharata in 
order to f 11 up tlii.s gap, and it is our great good fortune that 
India found an excellent .Jnanin and a noble soul like the 
writer of the Mahahharata, who was as proficient in worldly 
affairs as in Vedanta, for sponsoring the subject-matter of 
Karma-Yoga. 

'I’hough it has thus boen p.’Oved that the present Bhagavad- 
gita is a part of the present Mahaliiulrata, yet, this matter 
must be dealt with in greater detail. We understand the words 
‘Bharata'and‘Mahabharata’rs synonymous ; but, as a matter 
of fact, those two works ire different from each other. 
Considering the matter graimr atically, any book whiclr would 
contain a description of tho i lustrious deeds cf the kings of 
the Bhiirata clan could prorerly be called Bharata’. The 
etymology of the words Mtaiiiayaua’ and ‘Bhdgavata’ is the 
same; and on that account, any book which contains a 
description of the Bharat! war would be sufficiently identified 
by being called ‘Bharata’, lowevor extensive it were. Tho 
Ramayana is not a small \/ork ; then why is it not called 
‘Maha-Kamayana’V; and wl y sliould the B1 arata be called 
'Maha-Bharata’V It is stated at the end of ti e Mahabharata 
that the work has been gB en the name ‘Mahabharata’ on 
account of its two features (f (i) greatness (mahaiva) and of 
(ii) dealing with tho Bharata clan (hhorala/ixt), (Svarga. 5. 44). 
But if we take the mere literal meaning of the word 
‘Mahabharata’. it means ‘the oig Bharata’; and if this meaning 
is accepled, the question whether there was a ‘small’ Bharata, 



738 


gIta-rahasya or karma-yoga 


and whether such a small Bharata did not contain the 
Gita, naturally arises. There is a statement in the Adiparva 
of the present Mahabharata, that the Mahabharata consists of 
24000 stanzas, not taking into account the sub-chapters 
(upaJchyam), (A. 1. 101); and it is said later on that this was 
originally known as ‘Jaya’ (A. 63. 20). The word ‘Jaya’ 
seems to intend to convey the idea of the ‘victory’ (jaya) of 
the Pandavas in the Bharali war; and if that meaning is 
adopted, it will be seen that the book called ‘Jaya’ originally 
contained only a description of the Bharatl war, and that 
several sub-chapters were added later on to this historical book, 
so as to make of it the large work known as the ‘Mahabharata’, 
which dealt both with history and with Ethics. This 
conclusion is fortified by the specific reference to two different 
works named, ‘Bharata’ and ‘Mahabharata’, in the incantation 
relating to oblations to Rsis to be found in the 
Asvalayana-grhya-sutra, which runs as:— "surna^itu-jaimini- 
vaisampuyam — paila — sUtra—hhusya — bharata — mahabharata 
— dharmacaryah" ( A, Gr. 3. 4. 4 ). When the‘little Bharata’ 
had thus been included in the ‘Mahabharata’, the ‘little 
Bharata’ ceased to exist as an independent work, and 
it was naturally believed that only one work, namely the 
Mahabharata ’ was the Bharata. Even in the present 
version of the Mahabharata, there is a statement that the 
Bharata was first recited by Vyasa to his own son Suka, and 
afterwards to his other disciples (A. 1.103); and it is clearly 
stated that the five disciples Sumantu, Jaimini, Paila, Suka, 
and Vaisarhpayana wrote five distinct Bharata-Saihhitas 
or Mahabharatas (A, 63, 90); and there is a story that out 
of these five Mahabharatas, Vyasa retained only the Maha¬ 
bharata of Vaisaihpayana, and the Asvamedhaparva out of 
the Mahabharata of Jaimini. This explains why the names 
Sumantu etc., appear before the mention of the words ‘ Bharata- 
Mahabharata’ in the incantation about oblations to Rsis. 
But it is not necessary to enter so deep so into that subject- 
matter here. The conclusion which has been drawn by 
Rao Bahadur Chintamanrao Vaidya in his criticism on the 
Mahabharata, after considering this subject-matter, is in my 
opinion correct; and therefore, it is quite enough if I say 



II— THE GITA AND THE UPANISADS 


/39 


here that the present version ol the Mahabharata is not the 
original Mahabharata, but that there were various editions 
of the Bharata and the Mahab iarata; and that the present 
Mahabharat.a is the form it uMmately acquired. It cannot 
be said that the first original Bharata out of these did not 
contain tlu^ Gita. It is quite clear that the \vriter of the 
Mahabharata has written the jiresent Gita on the authority 
of former works, just as the S iuatsujatlya, the Viduraniti, 
the Sukanuprasna, the Yajtiavalkya-Janaka conversation, 
the VisQu-sahasranama, the Anrgita, the Narayanlya-dharma 
and other oha.ptors were so written, and that it was not 
written inlepeiidently. At th) same time, ii, cannot be 
definitely said that the writer of the Mahabhaiata did not 
make any change in the original Gita. From what has been 
stated above, anybody will come to the conclusion that the 
present Gita of 700 stanzas is a part of the present Maha¬ 
bharata, that both have been ■•.ompilod by the same hands, 
and that the present Gita has not been subsequently interpolated 
by anybody into the present Mahabharata, I will say 
later on wl: at in my opinion is lie date of the present Maha¬ 
bharata, as also what I have to say regarding the original 
Gits. 

PAirr IT-THE GITA AND THE UPANlSADS. 

Let us now consider the in .er-relation between the Gita 
and the various Upanisads. Not only have the various 
Upanisads been generally referred to in the present 
Mahabliarata, but the description about the warfare between 
the Vital (Organs [prawndriya • contained in tie Brhadara- 
nyaka and the Ohandogya (Br, ]. 3; Chan. 1. 2) appears in 
the Aniigita (Asva. 23); and the words “ na me slern jaruipade ” 
etc,, uttered by the king Kaikeya Asvapati (Chan. 5. 11. 15), 
appear in the Santiparva, wtere the story of that king is 
related (San. 77. 8). Similarly, the principles enunciated in 
the Brhadarapyaka, that “ ma jrretyn samjnasti” i. e., “after 
death, the ECnower ( jnatd) does not any more possess any 
name {savijilU) ”, and that thi .Knower is merged in the 
Brahman (Br, 4. 5. 13) appear in the Santiparva in the 
conversation between Janaka and PancaMkha; and in the 



740 


GiTA-RAHASYA OR KARMA-YOGA 


same place, at the end, the illustration of the river and the 
sea, which appears in the Prasna and the Mundaka Upanisads 
(Prasna. 6. 5 ; Mun. 3. 2. 8), has been used with reference to 
the man who has become free from Name and Form. Besides, 
the comparison of Reason with a charioteer, after comparing 
the organs with horses, which appears in the conversation 
between the Brahmin and the Hunter (Yana 210), and in the 
Anugita, has been taken from the Kathopanisad (Ka. 1, 3. 3) ; 
and the stanzas “ em sanictfii bhntesn (/udhafinu ” (Katha. 3. 12), 
and “ am/aira dharmml anijalrudharmUt ” (Katha. 2. 14) 

also appear with slight verbal alterations in the Santiparva 
(187, 39 and 331. 44). I have already stated above that the 
stanza “ mrvalah pmiipadai'u ” etc., from the Svetasvatara 
appear.s several times in the Mahabbarata, as also in the 
Gita. But this similarity does not end here, and there are 
numerous other sentences from the Upanisads, which appear 
in various places in the Mahabbarata. Nay, we may safely 
assert that the Spiritual Knowledge in the Mahabbarata has 
been practically adopted from the Upanisads. 

Not only is the Spiritual Knowledge contained 
in the Bhagavadgita consistent with the Upanisads, 
like the Mahabbarata, but, as has been stated by me in the 
ninth and the thirteenth chapters above, the Path of 
Devotion described in the Gita is also fully consistent 
with this Spiritual Knowledge. Without, therefore, repeating 
the same subject-matter, I will only say here in short, that 
the non-lamentability of the Atman mentioned in the second 
chapter of the Gita, the form of the Imperishable Brahman 
described in the eighth chapter, the consideration of the Body 
(ksetra) and the Atman (ktiefrajila ) contained in the thirteenth 
chapter, and especially the form of the ‘ Knowable ’ {jfwija) 
Parabrahman described in that chapter, are all subjects which 
have been literally copied into the Gita from the Upanisads. 
Borne of the Upanisads are in prose, whereas others are in 
verse. Expressions from the prose Upanisads cannot, of course, 
come as they are in the Gita, which is in verse form; yet, the 
ideas “whatever is, is; and whatever is not, is not” (Gi. 2, 16), 
"yarn yam vapi smaran Idiaimh” etc. (Gi, 8, 6), (i. e,, “whatever 
ideas are entertained in the Mind” etc.—Trans.) etc., which 



n— The alTA ANC the UPANISADS 


741 


appear in the Gita, are from t ie Chandogyopanisad; and the 
ideas and sentences, “/osjmc pudue” etc. (Gi. 9. ;!1), “ jyotisai'n 
jyoHh" (Gi, 13. 17), or mufrasparsuh” (Gi. 3, 14) etc., are from 
the Brliadaranyakopanisad, as will be apparent to anyone 
who has read those LJpanisads. But, if one does not consider 
the prose Upanisads, but considers only the Upanisads in 
verse form, this similarity becDnios more explicit; because, 
some verses from these verse-formed Upanisadi have been 
taken literally and word for wori into the Gita. Bor instance, 
six or seven stanzas from the Kathopanisad have been taken 
as they are, or with slight verbal alterations iito the GUci. 
The stanza hscaryawit juisijati'' etc. {Z. :h)) in the Gita is very 
similar to the stanza '^(iscwu'.t rttklu” etc., in the second 
vaili of the Kathopanisad (Kitha. Z. 7); and the stanza 
“ iia iiiriyali'- vu kudadt" etc. (Gi. 3, iiO), and the semi¬ 

stanza " ya<i kchanto hrahiHarariiaf'n mniuH'’ etc (Gi. 8 . 11), 
are word for word the same in the Gita and in the Katho¬ 
panisad (Katfm. 2. 1!); 2. 15). 1 have alreadj mentioned 
above that the stanza " iufkiyim parUnyahuh" (Gi. 3. 42) 
in the Gita has been take.i from the K'athopanisad 
(Katha, 3. 10). Similarly, the simile of the pipjiala {aivattha) 
tree in the fifl;eenth chapter cf the Gita, has been taken 
from the Katliopanisad; and tie stanza iid hhamt/ide 

sanjd” etc. (Gi, 15. (i), has Ieen adopted into the G’ta 
with slight verbal alterations from tiie Katl a and the 
Svetasvatara Upanisads. Many rther ideas and stanzas from 
the Svetasvataropanisad find tbei -way into the Gita. I have 
shown above in the ninth chapter that the word ‘Miya’ appears 
for the first time in the Svetasvatiiropanisad, and t lat it must 
have been taken from that place into the Gita and the 
Mahabharat i. Besides this, the cescription of the place proper 
for the study of Yoga, given in tie sixth chapter of the Gita, 
namely, “siiraii desc pnitktlidpija etc. (Gi. 6. 11) seems to be 
taken from the incantation “sfinu siiain’ etc. (Svt. 2. 10), and 
the words “ mina/h. kiiyuslroiinm n ” etc. (GT. (1. j.3) seem to 
have lieen taken from the incai tation “/nr ni\mJain dlidpya 
mmafu (Sve. 2. 8), if om considers the similarity of 

wording between the two. Birailarly, the staiizi “ sarmltth 
punipaddi'n'' etc. and the following semi-stanza are also seen 



743 


GiTA-RAHASYA OR KARMA-YOGA 


to be word for word the same both in the Gita (13. 13) and in 
the Sveta^vataropanisad (Sve. 3. 16); and the words 
"mioranlyamsaM" or “adityamnuim famamh paraslat” are also 
to be found both in the Gita (8. 9) and the Svetasvataropanisad 
(Sve. 3. 9, 30), Further similarity of wording between the 
Gita and the Upanisads is apparent from the fact that the two 
semi-stanzas “sarvabimfasfham atmaiuim (Gl. 6. 39) and 
‘‘vedais ca Sdrmi?- ahain evn vedi/o” (Gl. 15, 15) are to be found 
just as they are in the Kaivalyopanisad. But it is not 
necessary to further point out this similarity of wording. 
Nobody can entertain the slightest doubt that the Vedanta in 
the Gita has been enunciated on the authority of the Upanisads. 
What has to be principally considered is whether there is a 
difference between the exposition of it in the Upani.sads and 
the exposition in the Gita; and if so, what that difference is. 
We will, therefore, now turn to that subject-matter. 

The Upanisads are numerous, and the language of some 
of them is so modern, that one can clearly see that these 
Upanisads are not of the same date as the older Upanisads. 
Therefore, in considering the similarity of subject-matter 
between the Gita and the Upanisad,s, I have principally referred 
in this chapter, for purposes of comparison, to those Upanisads, 
which are mentioned in the Brahma-Sutras. If one tries to 
examine the similarity between the theories in these Upanisads 
and the Spiritual Knowledge in the Gita, one will see, first of 
all, that though the characteristic features of the qualityless 
Parabrahman is the same in both, yet, in describing how the 
Qualityful came into existence out of the Qualityless, the 
Gita uses the words 'nidya' or ‘ajfiana' instead of the word 
‘avidyd’. I have explained above in the ninth chapter that 
the word ‘maya' has appeared in the Svetasvataropanisad, and 
that this word is synonymous with 'avidyd' embodied in Names 
and Forms; and I have shown above that some of the stanzas 
from the Svetasvataropanisad appear word for word in the Gita. 
The first conclusion to be drawn from this is, that although the 
doctrine "sarvam khalv idafn brahma" (Chan. 3.14. 1), or "sarvam 
Utmamm pasyati” (Br. 4. 4. 33), or "sarvabhutem cdtmdnam" etc, 
(Ka. 6), or possibly even the whole of the Spiritual Knowledge 
in the Upanisads has been adopted into the Gita, yet, it was 



II— THE GiTA AND THE UPANISADS 


743 


only after the word ‘maya' came to be used in the Upanisads 
with reference to Name-d and Forni-ed 'andya', that the Gita 
has come to bo written. 

Now, if one considers what difference existe between the 
respective expositions of Vedanta in the Gita and the Upanisads, 
one sees that greater importance has been given aii the Gita to 
the Kapila-Samkhya philosophy. In the Brhadaranyaka or 
the Chandogya, which deal with Spiritual Knowledge,, 
Samkhya philosophy has not even once been mentioned ; and 
although the words 'avyaktii, ^mahUii’ etc. f 'om Saihkhya 
philosophy are found in the Katha and other L’panisads, yet, 
those words are clearly interpreted there according to Vedanta 
philosophy and not according to Samkhya philotophy; and the 
same argument applies to the exposition in the M litryupaiiisad. 
The idea of boycotting Samkhya philosophy has been carried 
to such 0 .n extent, that the diversity of Names and J’orms 
in the world has been explained in the Vedanta-Sutras by 
the ‘Trivrt-karana’ (union of three Elements' consistently 
with the Ghandogya, instead of by reference to tire ‘Panclkarana’ 
(union C'f five Elements) of Saihkhya philosophy (Ve. 
8 u. 3. 4. 30). Although this method of explaining the 
Perishable and Imperishable in Metaphysics without the 
slightest reference to Sarhkhya philosophy ras not been 
adopted in the Gita, yet, it must also be borne in mind that 
Samkhya doctrines have not been taken as they are into the 
Gita. Tlie Saihkhya doctrine that the visible world came 
into existence from the three-constituented imperceptible Matter 
(prakrti) I'Y the process of the‘doveloping-out of the constb 
tuents’ {yunotlcarm), and that the Spirit (puruf^a) is 
qualityless and is the See-er, is accepted by the Gita. But 
the Saihkhya doctrine regarding the Perishable ( ksara ) and 
Imperishable ( aksara ) has always been mentioned in the 
Gita with the rider of the Non-Dualistio Vedanta that Matter 
(pra/erh') and Spirit (purinsa ) are not independent Elements,, 
hut are the forms or manifestations ( vibhuH ) ot one and the 
same Parabrahman in the shape of the Atman. This tacking 
on of the .rrder of creation of the universe according to the 
Dualistic Sarhkhya philosophy with the Non-Dualistic 
doctrines of the Upanisads, which looks upon the Brahman 




744 


GiTA-RAHASYA OR KARMA-YOGA 


and the Atman as one and the same, is to be found in the 
exposition of Metaphysics in other places in the Mahabharata, 
as in the Gita ; and thereby the inference made above, that 
the Gita and the Mahabharata must have been written by 
one and the same person, is intensified. 

The Path of Devotion or the worship of the Perceptible 
contained in the exposition in the Gita is an important matter 
which is not found in the Upanisads. It is true that mere ritualis¬ 
tic performances like Yajfias etc., are considered inferior, from 
the point of view of Spiritual Knowledge, in the Upanisads 
as also in the Bhagavadgita ; but we do not come across the 
worship of a perceptible human-formed Paramesvara in 
the older Upanisads. As the Realisation of the imperceptible and 
qualityless Parabrahman is difficult, the writers of the 
Upanisads admit the principle that one must worship the 
Mind, Ether, the Sun, Eire, Yajha, and other similar 
<iualityful symbols. But the symbols, which have been 
mentioned in the ancient Upanisads for worship, do not 
include the human-forrned Paramesvara. It is stated in 
the Maitryupanisad that Rudra, Siva, Visnu, Acyuta, 
Narayana, etc., are all forms of the Paramatman (Mai. 7.7); 
and the Svetasvataropanisad oven contains the words 
‘ Mahesvara ’ etc; and there are also in the Svetasvatara 
such expressions as “jfiutvU (ic.min inucyate sarmpUsaih’’ 
(Sve. 5. 13), (i, e,, “by Realising God, all bonds are broken”—■ 
Trans.) or, “ yasya deve para hliaklih” (Sve, 6. 33). But one 
cannot definitely say that human-formed incarnations of 
Narayana, Visnu etc; are intended by these expressions; 
because, the deities Rudra and Visnu are both Vedio, that is. 
ancient; and it cannot bo said that the above-mentioned 
Upanisads did not refer to the ancient sacrificial ritual, which 
was later on given the form of the worship of Visnu, as shown, 
by the words “yajiio vai vimah," (Tai, Bam. 1. 7. 4), Never¬ 
theless, if some one says that the idea of human-formed 
incarnations was conceived in those days, that cannot be 
said to be improbable; because, the word 'bhakti' (Devotion) 
which is to be found in the Svetasvataropanisad cannot 
at first sight be properly applied to worship in the shape of 
a Yajira. As the expressions used in the Mahanarayana 



JI— THE GITA AND THE UPANISAD3 


745 


Nrsiihhatap ini, Ramatapani, or Gopalatapani Upanisads are 
clearer than those in the Svetasvataropanisad, such a doubt can 
really speaking notarise at all about tliem. But, ag there are no 
means for definitely fixing the dates of these I'panisads, one 
cannot, with their help, satisfactorily solve the q lestion as to 
when the worship of the liuman-formcd Visnu cam 3 into vogue. 
Nevertheless, the fiict that the Vodic Rath of Devotion is very 
ancient is satisfactorily proved in other ways. The 
granrnrarian I’a nini, after finst mentioning in a ■■j’ t/ra that the 
word ‘ Ith'ikhh ’ is to be taken as meaning ‘that, cowards wliich 
Devotion exists ' (Pa. 4. d, ha), says in another namely, 

ixinii(lri’urjinni.lili!j(i/h linn” (l*a. 4,1'). OS), that the man who 
is devoted to Vasudeva should be called ‘ Vasudovakaand 
the man who is a devotee of Ar.iuna should be called 
‘ Arjunaka ’; and Pataujaii, in commenting on this in his 
Mahabhagyn, has said that tlie word ‘Vasudtwa’ in this 
mtm is tht name of a Ksatriya, or of the ' Dhagavanta 
Dr. Bhandarkar has proved that tlie commentary of Patanjali 
was written about ‘h')!) yeans before the Christian era; and 
there is no dispute about the fact that Panini belonged to 
a much earlier period. Beside.s, oven Bnddhisne religious 
texts contain a, reference to Devotion; and I lave proved 
later on in detail that the Hhrig<avata. religion must have been 
the cause for principles of Devotion enterirg into the 
Buddhistic Mahrlyfina cult. Tlierefore, it is proved beyond 
doubt tliat tin Path of Devotion was well esiablished in 
India long iicfore the date of Ihuldha, that i.s to say 
necessarily more than fiOO years before the C'Pristian era_ 
Hie Narada-Paficaratra, or the Bhakti-Sutras written by 
Bandilya or Narada, are later in point of time. But thereby, 
the ancientness of the Bhagavata religion, or )f the Path 
of Devotion, is in no way affected. It will be seen from the 
exposition made in the Gita-Rahasya that (i) the rreseiit Path 
of Devotion lias been gradually evolved out of the forms 
of worsliip of the CJualityful mentioned in the ancient 
Upanisads; that (ii) the Patailjala Toga has given further 
Importance to the Path of Devotion, as in that Yoga some 
perceptible or visible object has to he placed bet ore the eyes 
for fixing the mind; and that (iii) the Path of Devotion has 




746 


GlTA-RAHASYA OR KARMA-YOGA 


not come into India from anywhere else, nor was there any 
necessity for it to come from anywhere else. Supporting, 
from the point of view of the Vedanta of the Upanisadsi 
this Path of Devotion, and especially the worship of Vasudeva, 
which had in this way come into existence in India, is an 
important part of the subject-matter of the Gita. 

But a still more important part of the Gita is the harmoni¬ 
sation of the Karma-Yoga with Devotion and the Knowledge 
of the Brahman. Although the Upanisads have considered 
the duties fixed for the four castes, or the ritualistic per¬ 
formances mentioned by the Srutis as inferior, yet, some 
of the Upanisads say that they have got to be performed for 
the purification of the Mind, and that it is not proper to 
give them up even after the Mind has been purified. Never¬ 
theless, several of the Upanisads may be said to ordinarily 
incline towards Abandonment of Action. There are statements 
in some Upanisads, as in the Isavasyopanisad, that Action 
must be performed so long as life lasts, such as, “ kurvann 
eveha Icarmani”, (i. e., “Action must be performed in this 
world”—Trans.); but no other Upanisad has justified this 
Karma-Yoga, which had been in vogue from ancient times, 
by doing away with the conflict between Spiritual Knowledge 
and Worldly Action as has been done in the Gita. Nay, 
one may safely say that the doctrines of the Gita on this 
matter are different from the doctrines enunciated by many 
of the writers of the Upanisads. As I have fully discussed 
this question in the eleventh chapter of the Gita-Rahasya, 
I do not propose to take up more space by dealing with 
it here. 

The ‘acquisition of Yoga’ ( yoga-sadhana ), which has been 
referred to in the sixth chapter of the Gita, has been fully 
and scientifically dealt with in the Pataiijala Yoga-Sutras; 
and these Sutras are now-a-days considered an authoritative 
text on this subject. These Sutras are divided into four 
chapters. The word ‘ ^/o^a ’ has been defined in the commence¬ 
ment of the very first chapter as “ yogas cittavrttinirodhah ”, 
(i. e„ “ Yoga means the control of the activities of the Mind ” 
—Trans.); and it is stated that “ al)hyasamird.gydfihyam tan- 
nirodhah ”, that is, “ this control ( nirodhah ) can be acquired 





11 - Tjno aiTA. AND THK U^AiNlttAJJa ill 

l)y practiti3 and by indifference to the world ” ; and afterwards 
the means of acciuiring the Yoga snch as, yanut, niyarna, us(ma, 
etc. have been described; and in the 3rd and 4th 
chapter.s, it is explained how perfection and the supernatural 
powers of ‘ (iiniiKilnyliimU ' (i. e, ‘.sidf-contraction,le /'itation’ etc.— 
Trans.) are a(;<iuired by the ‘ amihprajhata ' or ‘ mrvikalpa ' 
samadhi (non-differentiating mental absorption', and how by 
this kind cf concentration, one ultimately reaches Release in the 
shape of ‘ Brahma-nirvana ’. In t!ic Bhagavadg tfi also, there 
is first mentioned the nec(!Hsity of tlio control of the Mind 
(Gi. 0. ’20); and after stating that the Mind must be controlled 
by the two means of practice ( uhlinnm ), and indifference to 
the world { rairayya ), (Gi. 0. 3')), it is ultimate:y stated how 
one should acquire the non-differentiating meir al ah,sorption, 
and what happiness that gives. But on th.it account, one 
cannot say tliat the Hhagavadgila accepts as correct the 
Patanjala-Yoga, or that the Patan,iala-Sutra,s are earlier in 
point of time than the Bliagavadgita. The Blessed hord 
has nowhfcre advised that one should spend onu’i life holding 
one’s nose in the hand for controlling the brjath, in order 
to aC(iuirc perfect concentration, as directed in the Batanjala- 
Sutras. (-'ontrol of the Mind and mental absorption have been 
mentioned in the Gltfi as moans for acquiring tha'. Equability of 
Mind, which is necessary for acquiring K arma-Yoga. Tlierefore, 
it must be said that in this matter, the Gita cotms nearer to the 
Svetasval.ara or the Katha IJpanisads than the Batafijala-Sutras. 
The Dhyanabindu, Gliurikii, and Yoga-tattva 'panisads deal 
with Yoga. Hut, as Yoga is the principal .suoject-matter in 
them, and its praises are sung everywhere, it is not proper to 
attempt to fully harmonise these one-sided Upanisads witli the 
Gita, which considers the Karma-Yoga as the mos".sui)erior path; 
and such a harmony cannot in fact be brought ibout. In the 
introduction to his English translation of the Bhagavadgita, 
Mr. Thompson has said that the Karma-Yoga in the Gita is 
a form of the Batanjala-Yoga; but such a thing is absolutely 
impossible; and 1 say that this confusion has arisen in the 
mind of Mr. Thompson, because lie has not understood the 
correct meaning of the word ‘Yoga’ in the Gita. Because, 
whereas the Gita Karnia-Yoga is Euergistic, the I’atanjula-Yoga 



748 


GITA-RAHASYA OR KARMA-YOGA 


is iust the opposite, that is to say, renunciatory; and it is, 
therefore, not possible tiiat the one should have come out of 
the other; and it is nowhere stated in the Gita that such is 
the case. Nay, the original meaning of the word ‘Yoga’ was 
Karma-Yoga; and one may safely say that that word came to 
be commonly understood in the single meaning of ‘Yoga’ in 
the shape of ‘Concentration of the Mind’, after the days of the 
Patahjala-Sutras. Wliatever may he the case, the Desireless 
Path of Action adopted in ancient times by Janaka and others 
was similar to the Yoga, that is, the Karma-Yoga of the Gita; 
and it has clearly been adopted from the Bhagavata religion 
traditionally handed down by Maim to IksvfiJfu etc., and was 
not derived from the Patanjala-Yoga. 

This will have clearly shown to iny readers the similarity 
and the dissimilarity between the Gitfi-doctrine and the 
Upanisads. Most of these matters have been dealt with by me 
in the Gita-Rahasya. I shall, therefore, say here only this much 
that, although the Knowledge of the Brahman in the Gita 
has been mentioned on the authority of the Upanisads, yet, the 
Gita has not merely copied the Metaphysical Knowledge in 
the Upanisads, hut by adding to it the worship of Vasudeva, 
as also the Samkhya Science of the Perishable and the 
.fmperi.shable, that is to say, of the creation of the universe, 
it has principally expounded the Vedic religion of Karma- 
Yoga, which is easy to follow, and is beneficial in this life and 
the next; and in this way the Gita is superior to the Upanisads. 
It is, therefore, not proper to .stretch the meaning of the Gita 
doctrinally, in order to establish a non-existing harmony 
between the Gita and the renunciatory Upanisads, except in 
the matter of the Knowledge of the Brahman. It is true that 
the Metaphysical Knowledge in both is the same. Yet, although 
the liead in the shape of the Spiritual Knowledge is the same, 
the Samkhya path and the Karma-Yoga are the two equally 
important hands of the Vedic religion; and the Gita has 
emphatically supported Action based on Knowledge, as has 
been done in the Isavasyopanisad, as i.s clearly shown in the 
eleventh chapter of the Gita-Rahasya. 



II] - The (IITA and the BRAHMA-SUTRAS 749 


PART III—THE aiTA AND THE BRAHHA-SUTRAS. 

Having ill this vv^ay considered the similarity and the 
dissimilarity between the BhagavadgTtri and the Upanisads, 
wliich cliiefly deal either with Spiritual Knowledge, or with 
Devotion, or with Yoga, it is really speaking not necessary to 
compare the Gitit with, the Brahma-Sutras; because, as 
Bfularayanilcarya lias written his Brahina-Siitris in order to 
systematically consider the Metajiliysical doctrines mentioned 
in tfie VMrions Upanisads, these Hutras cannet contain any 
thoughts which are not in the Upanisads. S.ill, there is a 
clear reference to tlio Brahnia-Sutras at the lieginning of the 
L3tli chapter of the Bhagavadglla, where the subject-matter of 
the Body and the Atman is being dealt with, in the words: 

TtjiUiir 'luluuiliu iilld/'n cliitiiitvhhir vimlliaih 2>rthak I 
hm'ima-salrapuiluis rw'tvi lu'liiiiKulhhir viniscHaih li 

(Gi. 13. 4). 

that is, the Body and tlio Atman have been described “in 
various ways, in different metres, by difl'oi’ent Rsis, dis¬ 
connectedly; and also delinltoly a.nd logie.ally in the 
Brahma-Siitra-padas”; and, if one considcr.s these Brahma-Siitras 
to be the same as tlie present Vedaiit.a-Sutras, it follow.? that 
the present G ita must have been written after the date of the 
present Vedanta-Sutras. It is, therefore, very necessary to 
determine which the.se Brahma-Sutr.as are, in oidor to fix the 
date of tlio Gita," Because, there is no work now available 
hisides the Vcdaiita-Siitras, wliich beans the name of Brahina- 
Hutra.s, nor has .sncli a work been referred to anywhere; and it 
i.s not projier to .say that tlie Gita was written ifter the date 
of the present Brahma-Hiitras; because, it is traditionally 
believed that the Gita is more ancient than tliese I rahma-Sutras. 
Possibly, the jihrase ''bralniMi-HTilra-txiilaih'' has bten interpreted 
ill the Sarhkarabhaaya to mean “the phrases in the Srutis or 
the Upanisads, which refer to the Brahman”, in order to get 
over this difficulty. But, on the other hand, An indagiri, who 

* 'L’tjit liubjcct-inatter has lieuii con.sidorcd by the .late 
Mr. Tehing ; and Brof. Tukarsiii Ramchaiulra Amaluorkar B. A. has 
also published an essay on this subject in IBDa. 




750 


GITA-RAHASYA or karma-yoga 


has written a commentary on the Sarhkarabhasya, and 
Ramanujacarya and Madhvacarya, who are other commentators 
on the Gita, have said that the words “brahrm-sutra-padais caiva” 
mean the Sutras “at halo brahma jijnasa’ etc. of Badarayanacarya; 
and Srldhara Svami interprets them in both ways. We have, 
therefore, to determine the true meaning of this stanza 
independently. This stanza mentions Two DIFFERENT places, 
where the subject-matter of the Body and the Atman have been 
described; for, it says that this subject-matter has been 
mentioned “in DlFFEliENT ways, by different Rsis, DISCON¬ 
NECTEDLY,” and also (caiva) “definitely and logically in the 
Brahma-Siitra-padas”; and this is apparent from the word 
‘’caiva’ (i. e., ‘and also’). Not only are these two places different, 
but the first place, namely, the description given by Rsis, is 
“in different metres, and disconnected, and in different ways”; 
and, as appears by the third case plural termination of the 
word it has been made by VARIOUS Rsis; whereas, 

the other description contained in the Brahma-Siitra-padas 
is “ definite and logical”. This is the special difference 
between the two, which has been brought out in this 
stanza. The word ‘hefumat’ appears in various places in 
the Mahabharata, and means an ‘ exposition made according 
to the method of logicians, by showing reason and 
conclusion ’. Take for instance, the conversation of Sulabha 
with Janaka, or what Sri Krsna said in the Darbar of the 
Kauravas, when He wont there as an ambassador. It is stated 
in the Mahabharata itself that the first conversation was 
‘helumd’ and ' arlhavat’ (San. 320. 101); and that the other 
one was ‘sahefuica’ (Udyo. 131. 2). From this, it follows 
that where pros and cons are discussed, and some unambiguous 
and definite conclusion has been drawn at the end, that method 
of dealing with the subject is called ‘ hcfumadbhir viniscitaih \ 
These words cannot bo applied to miscellaneous and inconsis¬ 
tent conclusions drawn in one way in one place and in 
another way in another place. Therefore, if wa have to 
maintain the distinction and contrast between “rsibhih 
bahudha vividhaih prthak” (i. e., “by Rsis, indifferent places, 
in different ways, and disconnectedly’’—Trans.) and “ helu- 
mUdbhir viniscitaih” (i. e,, “definitely and logically”—Trans.),, 






Ill - TtlB GTTA and the BHAHMA-SUTRAS 751 


it becomes necessary to say that the words “the description in 
various ways, by different ftsis, disconnectedly, and in different 
metres” intend to mean the disconnected and miscellaneous 
sentences appearing in the different IJpaniBads ; and that the 
words “definite and logically advanced Brahma-Sutra-padas 
signify the description in the Brahma-Sutrxs, in which 
a definite and unambiguous conclusion has boei: drawn in the 
end by slu wing pros and cons. It mu.st also be borne in mind 
that, as the ideas mentioned by the flsis in the IJpanisads 
ware related by them, as they occurred to them, that is to say, 
disconnect.ally, the true import of the IJpanisads cannot be 
understood unless the ideas contained in them are harmonised. 
And, there ’ore, it bocomes neco.ssary to mention the work in 
which the IJpanisads have been harmonised with each other by 
the explanation of reasons and conclusions, at the same time 
when the IJpanisads themselves are mentioned. 

When this stanza in the Gita has been interjireted in this 
way, it is (piite clear that the Ifpanisads and the Brahma- 
Shtras were earlier in point of time than the Gita. 
There is, of course, no dispute about the mest important 
ones of t'ti,es 0 UpanLsada; because, the stanzas from these 
Upinisads are found to have been copied word for word 
into the Gita. But, there is room for doubt where the 
Brahma-Siitras are concerned; because, although the word 
‘ Bhagavadgita' has not appeared literally in the Brahma- 
Siitras, yet, tire Bhagavadgita is believed by the writers of the 
Bhasyas to have been referred to by the word ' Sn rti ’ in some 
of the Sutras at least. The Brahma-Siitras, which, according 
to the SamWarabhasya, refer to the Bhagavadgita by the word 
‘ i^mrti ’ are principally the following ones.— 

BRAIIMA-SUTRAS GlTA 


chapter, pada, and nulra 
\. 2. &, .vnrtes mi 

1. 3. 23, api ca smanjate i 

-2. 1. 36, upapadyate cUpy- 
upalabhyate ca I 


Chapter anci stanza. 

Gi. 18. 61, tscarah sarvabhu- 
tdnum etc., {whole stanza) 

Gl. 15. 6, na ,ad bhdsayate 
sUryah etc. 

Gi. 15, 3, na rupam asyefta tatho- 
palabhyate etc. 





752 


GITS.-RAHASYA OR KARMA-YOGA 


2, 3. 45, API CA SMARYATK I 

3, 2. 17, darkayati catho api 
srmrijate i 

3, 3. 31, ardyamah sarudsuiti- 
(ivirodhah sabdanumana- 
bhyam I 


Gl. 15. 7, maniaiva/hso jivaloke 
jivahhutah etc. 

Gi. 13. l%,j'mijam yat tat pravak- 
syarni etc. 

Gl. 8. 2(5, suklakrsrie gati 
hyete etc. 


4. 1. 10, srnaranti ca I Gl. 6. 11, sucaa dese etc, 

4. 2, 21, YOGINAH I'RATI OA Gi. 8. 23, yatra kale tvanu- 

SMARYATE I v-rttim dvrlti/h caiva yogi- 

hak etc. 

Even if some out of these 8 references are considered 
ambiguous, yet, in my opinion the fourth (Bra. Su. 2. 3. 45) 
and the eighth (Bra. Su. 4. 2. 21) are absolutely unambiguous ; 
and it must be borne in mind that on this question the four 
commentators, S.uhlcaracarya, Ramanujacarya, Madhvacarya, 
and Vallabhacarya, are of the same opinion. The sTUra 
“apt ca smaryate" (2. 3. 45) i. e., “and the Sinrti says the same 
thing ”, appears in the Brahma-Siitras, in the course of the 
consideration of the mutual inter-relation between the 
Personal Self (jlvatman ) and the Absolute Self (paramdtmaii), 
after it has first been definitely stated in the sTdra, “ nafmU 
’sruter nUyatvac ca tabhyah” (Bra. Sii. 2. 3. 17), that the 

Individual Saif Is not created from the Highest Self like 
the other objects in the world; after stating in the 
sutra,“ amso ndnavyapadesdt " etc. (2. 3. 43), that the .flvatman is 
a ‘part’ (a/i/,sa) of the Paramatman, and after giving the 
authority of the Srutis by saying “ mantra varnac ca" (2. 3. 44) 
This Smrti is the sentence '' mamaiv'dinso jivaloke jlvahhulah 
sandtanah" in the Gita (Gi, 15. 7) according to all the 
commentators. But the last reference is oven more unambi¬ 
guous than this. I have stated above in the tenth chapter 
that the two periods of Devayana and Pitryana occupy the 
six months of the Uttarayana and the six months of the 
Daksinayana respectively; and that instead of interpreting 
these phrases as indicating ‘time’, Badarayaiiacarya has 




Hi - the (ilTA AND THE BRAHMA-StfTRAS 753 


interpreted them as meaning the rospoctive deities presiding 
during those periods of time (Ve. Su. 4. 3. 4). The .s'«/ra, 
“ yoginah prati ai snutryate” (Bra. 8u. 4. 2, 21), that is, “these 
periods of time are proper in the case of Yogins according 
to the Smrti”, has been written in answer to the doubt whether 
the words ‘i/ak.'iinUynna’ and ' ullarayana', are never to be 
understood as indicating ‘time’; and it has been clearly 
stated in the Gita in ttie following words, that those periods 
of time are proper for Yogins, namely, “yalra hl'ile tvanavrttim 
fiorttuh caiva yogindh". bTotn those references, one has to say 
with the (iomraentators that in these two places at least the 
word ‘ ’ used in the Brahma-Sutras has -eference only 

to the Bhagavadgitd. 

But if one believes that the Brahma-Siit 'as have been 
specifically mentioned in the Gita, and that the Gita has been 
specifically referred to in the Brahma-Sutras by the word 
‘ hnrti’, there arises an inconsistency between the two from 
the point of view of date of writing; because, as the Bhagavad- 
gita coutaius a clear reference to the Brahma-Sutras, the 
Brahma-SiitiMS must he looked upon as pricr in point of 
time to the Gita; and if one interprets the worl ‘.smr/f ’ in the 
Brahma-Sutras as meaning the Gita, the Gita becomes earlier 
in point of time than the Brahma-Sutras. The same Brahma- 
Sutras cannot once he earlier in point of time and again later 
in point of time than the tlita. Well; if, in order to escape 
from this difficulty, wo interpret tlie words “ brahina-autra- 
padaih”, as has been done in tiie Saitikarabhdsya, then the words 
" lieiairi'.idbliir 'mdscitaih" haaoma meaningless; and if we say 
that the word 'tsmrii’ used in the Brahma-Sutras refers to some 
Smrti other than the Gita, then we have to say that all the 
commentators were wrong; and even if we say that they ware 
all wrong, the fact still remains that we cannot say what 
work is referred to by the word ‘.svnr/t’. 'Iffitn, how are we 
to get out of this difficult position ‘f In my opinion, there 
is only one way in which we can escape this difficulty. If wo 
say that the same man who wrote the Brahma-Sutras also 
gave their present form to the Bharata and t) the Gita, the 
difficulty is solved. It is usual to refer to the Brahma-Sutras 
as ‘ Yyasa-Siitrasand Anandagiri has stated in his comment- 





754 


GITA-RAHA.SYA OR KARMA-YOGA 


ary on the Samkarabhasya on the sutra, “ sesatvat purumrtha- 
mdo yathanije^viti jairmmh” (Ve. Su. 3, 4, 2), that Jaimini was 
the disciple of Vyasa, who wrote the Vedanta-Sutras; and 
in the same way, he has described the Brahma-Sutras in the 
opening stanzas of his work in the following terms, namely, 
srimadvyasapayonklldr nidhirasau”. Vyasa, the writer of 
the Mahfibharata, had five disciples named, Paila, Suka, 
Sumantu, Jaimini, and Vaisampayana; and I have, on the 
authority of the present Mahabharata, referred above to the 
story that Vyasa taught the Mahabharata to them. When 
one takes both these things together, and considers the matter, 
one can draw the inference that the work of giving their 
present form to the original Bharata and to the Gita included 
in it, as also that of writing the Brahma-Sutras was done 
by one and the same Badarayana Vyasa. This does not mean 
that Badarayanacarya wrote something new in the shape 
of the present Mahabharata. All that I mean to say is that 
as the Mahabharata is a very extensive work, some portions 
of it may have been lost or become disintegrated at the 
time of Badarayana; and that Badarayanacarya may, therefore, 
have critically examined different portions of the Maha¬ 
bharata which were then available, and either corrected or 
supplemented them wherever he found the book to be 
disconnected or incorrect or incomplete, or added indexes etc., 
and in that way either revived the book or given it its 
present form. It is well known that even in Marathi literature, 
Ekanatha has in this way revised the JMnesvarl •, and there 
is even a story that as the Vyakarana Mahabhasya in Sanskrit 
literature was once lost, Chandrasekharacarya had to revive it 
again. In this way, one can easily understand how the 
stanzas of the Gita are to be found in the other chapters of 
the Mahabharata; and the fact of the clear reference to the 
Brahma-Sutras in the Gita and of the reference to the Gita in 
the Brahma-Sutras by the word ‘smrH', is easily explained. As 
the original Gita, which is the foundation of the present Gita, 
was available even before the time of Badarayanacarya, it was 
referred to in the Brahma-Sutras by the word 'smrti' ; and it 
is stated in the Gita, while revising the Mahabharata, that the 
subject-matter of the Body and the Atman has been considered 




Ill - The GITA and the BRAHMA-Bl TEAS 755 

in detail ia tlie Brahina-SiitraB There are other references 
in the present Mahabharata to .s7t/ra-works, nirnilar to the 
reference to the Brahma-Siitras in the prese:it Gita. For 
instance, in the Astavakra-Dik conversation in tlie Anufesana- 
parva, we find the .sentence, "anrlilh siriya ity ‘mm sTitrakaro 
■mjavasyali, " ( Ann. 19. 6). Similarly, there are also clear 
references elsewhere in the Mahabharata to t ie Satapatha- 
hrahmana (Santi. 318. 16-23), the Paiicaratras (Santi. 339. 107), 
the Nirnktia of Yaska (Santi. 342. 71), and Mann (Ann. 37. 16). 
But, a.s it was not usual for people to learn liy heart all the 
part.? of tlie Mahabharata, a doubt naturally arises about the 
extent to which the reference to other hooks in thi Mahabharata 
in other places besiiles the Gila, can be looked u])on as reliable 
for the purpose of the determination of the cate of either. 
Because, t aose parts which are not learnt by heait can easily be 
tampered with by the addition of interpolated .stories or stanzas. 
Yet, in iny opinion, there is no reason w hy we should not take 
advantage of the.se other references in order to prove that the 
reference t.o the Brahma-Sutras in the Gita is not a sole, or 
an unprecedented, and therefore, an unreliable reference. 

Till lirahma-SuOras aro the most important book on 
Vedanta, and the Gita is the most important book on Karma-Yoga, 
as has been shown by mo in previous chapters. Therefore, if 
my inference that the Brahiiia-SutraB and the G-itii were written 
by one and the same person, that is, by Vyasa, is correct, Vyasa 
becomes saildled with the authorshi]) of botli these books. I have 
proved this above by inferential argument. Bu, in the new 
edition of the Mahabhar.ata according to the soutnern recension, 
which has been published by Mr. Krishuacarya of Kumbakonani, 
we find the following 34th stanza in the 212th chapter of the 
Santiparva (in the Var.stieyadhyatma-prakaraaa) in nhe description 
of how the various sciences and histories came in io existence at 
the beginning of the Yuga, namely, 

vt'dantakarmai/iigaih c,a vedivid hrakmavid vihhuh i 

diaijidyano nijagrdhn .siljxisdstnnh bhrguh puiiak || 

In this stanza, vedmta/carmayogaJh ” ia a compound word in the 
singular number. But that has to be interpreted as meaning ‘Vedanta 
rtaeZ Karma-Yoga’. Possibly tho original reading was “ veddntath 



756 


GiTA-RAHASYA OR KARMA-YOGA 


I have proved above by critically examining the meaning 
of the words in the stanza ‘‘ hrahmci-snira-pachiis caiva" etc,, 
that the Bhagavadgita contains a reference to the present 
Brahma-Sutras or Vedanta-Sutras. But, I think there is 
another important and forcible reason for this reference to 
the Brahma-Sc:itra.s having come into the Bhagavadgita, 
and that too in the 13th chapter, that is, in the chapter 
which deals with the subject of tlie Body and the Atman* 
I have already explained in the previous chapters that though 
the essential principle of the worship of Vasudeva has 
been taken into the Bhagavadgita from the Bh:igavata or 
the Pahcaratra religion, yet, the four-fold (ailur-vijUija} theory 
of the Pancaratra religion regarding the coming into existence 
of Samkarsana, that is Jiva (Personal Self) from Vasudeva, 
of Pradyumna, that is, the Mind {inanafi} from Sariikarsana, 
and of Aniruddha, that is, Individuation {<iha>hkara) from 
Pradyumna, is not accepted by the Bhagavadgita. The 
Brahma-Sutras lay down the doctrine that the Personal Self 
(jtvatmnn) has not sprung from anything else (Ve. Su. 2. 3. 17) 
and that it is an eternal ‘part’ (cc.wsu) of the Highest Atman 

karmayogaih cn ”, and in writing or iu printing, the diacritical 
nasal sign ' 7/i ’ in ' nPiWi' may have been dropped. It is dearly 
stated in this stanza that Vyasa obtained the two scionces of 
Vedanta and Karma-yoga, and that Bhrgii obtained the ^ilpa- 
sustra (i, e., 'the fitio or mecliauical arts ’—Trans.). Bat, this 
stanza is not to bo found in the edition printed iu the Ganpit 
Ktishnaji Pre.^s iu Bombay or in the Oalcutta edition. The 2l2th 
ohajrtor of the Santiparva in the Kuiuhakonam edition is the 210th 
chajrter of the Bombay and Calcutta editions. I am very gfatefiil 
to my friend Dr. Ganesh Krishna Garde for having drawn ray 
attention to this stanza in the Kumbakonara reoonsioo. According 
to his opinion, the word ‘ karmmjoya ’ in this place refers to 
notiiiug else but the Gita, and the authorship of both the Gita and 
the Vedauta-Sulras is by this stanza given to Vyasa. Some doubt 
may arise on this point, because this reading is to be found in 
only one out of three editions of the Mahabhrlrata ; but it at least 
proves that my inference about the autJior of Vedanta being 
the same as the author of Karma-Yoga, is neither new, nor without 
authority. 




iiX - The GITA AND THE BRAHMA-SUrRAS 757 


{pararndtman), (Ve. Su. 2. 3. 43), Therefore, Badarayanaoarya 
has, in the second part of the second chapter, foand fault with 
the Bhagavata doctrine, by saying that th(: genesis of 
Saihkarsana from Vasudeva according to that religion is not 
possible (Ve, Sti. 2. 2. 42); and, by arguing that, .since the Mind 
is an orgaji pertaining to the Personal Self, it :s impossible 
for Pradyumna (Manas) to spring from Jiva (Ve. Su. 2, 2. 43)t 
because, w«i never see it happen in the world that the 
cause or the means spring from the doer, he has to that 
extent logioall.y refuted the Bhagavata doctri re. To this, 
the followers of the Bhagavata doctrine are lil.ely to reply 
that they consider Vasudeva (Isvara), Samkar;ana (Jiva), 
Pradyumna (Manas), and Aniruddha (Aliaihki.ra) as four 
equal Jilanins, and look upon the gem^tis of the one from 
the other as merely symbolical or unimportant. I; ut, from this 
point of view, instead of there being one Paramesvara, one 
gets four Paratnesvaras; and the Brahma-Sutr.is, therefore, 
say, that even this reply is not satisfactory; and Badarayana 
has ultimately oxprassed his opinion that the idea that. 
Jiva has sprung from the Paramesvara is net acceptable 
to the Vedas, that is, to the TJpanisads, (Ve. Sii. 2. 2,44,45). 
It is true that the Bhagavadgita ha.s adopted the principle of 
of Action based on Devotion of the Bhagavata religion. 
Nevertheless, tlie doctrine of tlie Gita is that the diva has not 
sprung from the Paramesvara, and is not a ‘son’ of the 
Paramesvara, hut a part (avda) of the Pararnatman (Gi. 15. 7), 
This doctrine about the Jiva does not form part of the original 
Bhagavata doctrine ; and it was, therefore, necessary to explain 
on what aui.hority it had been liased; because, if i hat had not 
been done, thens was a likelihood of a misnnder,standing arising 
that wliile accepting the finergistic Devotional principle of 
the Bhagavata doctrine, the Bhagavadgita was also accepting 
the arrangement of the ‘four-folded genesis’ fcahirmjuha) in 
that doctrine. Therefore, when there was occasion to refer to 
the nature of the Individual Self (Jlviltman) in the chapter on 
the Body and the Atman, that is to say, in the very beginning 
of the 13th ohai)ter, it became necessary for the Blessed Lord 
to explain tOat “My opinion about the Atman (kstfrajiJa), that 
is, the Jiva, is not the same as in the Bhagavata doctrine, but 





758 GITA-RAHASYA OR KARMA-YOGA 


is consistent with the opinion of the Rsis, who have written 
the Upanisads”. And thereafter, it became necessary for Him 
to say in the natural course, that, as different Rsis had given 
disconnected descriptions in the different Upanisads, He 
accepted the harmonisation of all those opinions in the 
Brahma-Siitras (Ve. Su. 'Z. 3. 43). Considering the matter from 
this point of view, it will be soon that the Path of Devotion 
in the Bhagavata doctrine has been adopted in to the Gita in 
such a way that the objections taken to that doctrine in the 
Brabma-Sutras could be obviated. Ramanujacarya has in 
his commentary on the Vedanta-Siitras given a different meaning 
altogether to these Siitras (Ve. Su. Ra. Bha. 2. 2. 42-45). But, 
in my opinion, these interpretations are stretched, and not 
acceptable. Thibaut seems to be inclined to accept the view 
of the Ramanujabhasya; but from the writings of Thibaut; one 
does not get the idea that he has properly understood the true 
nature of this discussion. Even in the description of the 
Narayanlya doctrine, which is made at the end of the 
Santiparva of the Mahabharata, it Is first stated that “Vasudeva 
IS ALSO (m eva) Sathkarsana, that is, Jiva, or the Atman” (See 
San. 339. 39 and 71 and 334. 28 and 29); and the further descent 
of Pradyumna from Sarhkarsana etc. has then been mentioned; 
and in one place, it is clearly stated that some consider the 
Bhagavata doctrine as four-folded (catur-vijuha), others as three- 
folded (fn-w/iZ/ia), others as two-folded {dm-vi/Uha), and others 
again as single-folded (eka-vyaha), (Ma. Bha. San. 348. 57). But 
instead of accepting these various aspects of the Bhagavata 
doctrine, the present Gita has accepted only that aspect of it, 
which would be consistent with the opinions of the Upanisads 
and the Brahma-Sutras on the question of the mutual inter¬ 
relation between the Body and the Atman; and when this 
matter is taken into account, one clearly understands why 
it was necessary to refer to the Brahma-Sutras in the Gita. 
Hay, we may even go so far as to say that the present Gita 
has made an improvement in this respect on the original 
Gita. 




IV - The BHAGAVATA RELIG ION and tih GITA 75!) 


l^ART IV—THE RISE OF THE BHAGAVATA 
RELIGION AND THE GITA. 

I have stated in several places in the Gitfi-I'ahasya, and 
also above in this Appendix, that the principal subject- 
matter of the Gita, is to harmonise the Spiritual Knowledge 
of the Upanisads, and the Saihkhya theories about the Mutable 
and the Ininiutable, with Devotion, and principally with 
Desireless Action; and thereby to fully justify the Karma- 
Yoga scientifically. But, those who do not realise the skilful¬ 
ness of the Gita in harmonising these various subjects, or 
those who hive a pre-conceivcd notion that it will be difficult 
to harmonise all these subjects, get the impressio i that many 
of the statciments in the Gita are mutually conllicting. For 
instance, tTeso critics object that the statcanent in the 
thirteenth chapter, that all whatsoever, which ccists in this 
world, is notihing but the tiuulityle.os Brahman, is inconsistent 
with the statement in the seventh chapter that all this world 
is nothing but the qualityful Vasudeva (7.19); as also that 
the statement that “Friend and foe ai-o alike to Me”(9. il9) 
is inconsistent with the other statement that “Jhanins and 
Devotees are much beloved of Me” (7. 17; 1:1, 19), both of 
which statements have been made by the Blesscjd Lord. But 
I have explained in many places in the Gita-Rahasya, that 
there is no real conflict between these statemen'.s, and tluit 
although it was necessary to make these apprentlj conflicting 
statements in considering the same question, oi ce from the 
Metaphysical point of view and again from the point 
of view of Devotion, yet, the Gitii has finally harmonised 
them from the comprehensive philosophical point of view. 
But, even to this explanation it is objected by some, that 
(i) although it is now possible to thus harmonise the 
Realisation of the imperceptible Brahman, with the Devotion 
to the perceptible Paramesvara, yet, it is impossible that 
there could have been any such harmonisation in the 
original Gita; that (ii) the original Gita was not full of 
conflicting statements like the present Git.l, and that 
(iii) Vedantists or the protagonists of Samkhya doctrines 
interpolated statements in favour of their respecti'm doctrines 
into the original Gita. For instance. Prof. Garbo says that 




760 


GITA-RAHASYA OR KARMA-YOGA 


the original Gita contained a harmoniBation of Devotion 
with only Sarhkhya and Yoga; and the harmonisation of 
Devotion with Vedanta and with the Karraa-raarga of the 
MimaiiiBa Hchool was brought about by somebody afterwards; 
and ho has even appended to his German translation of the 
Gita, a list of those Ktanzas, which according to him had been 
subsequently interpolated into the original Gita! These 
theories are entirely wrong in my opinion. These people 
have conceived these wrong ideas as a result of their having 
failed to understand the historical tradition of the various 
aspects of the Vedic religion, and the real meanings of the 
words ‘ mfnkhija ’ and ‘ //or/a ’ used in the Gita, and especially 
l)ecause these people had before their eyes the history of the 
unphilosophical, that is, purely devotional Christian religion. 
The Oliristian religion was originally purely devotional; and 
the attempt to harmonise it with the philosophical doctrines 
of the Greeks, or with other philosophies, was made afterwards. 
But that is not the case with us. The Ritualist path of the 
Mlmathsa school, tlie Knowledge preached by the writers 
of the Upanisads, and Saihkhya and Yoga, had all reached 
their highest development before the Path of Devotion arose 
in India. Therefore, it was impossible from the very 
beginning that our people should countenance an independent 
Path of Devotion, which would be independent of all these 
soience.s, and especially independent of the Knowledge of 
the Brahman preached in the Upanisads; and when this 
impossibility is taken into account, one is forced to come 
to the conclusion, that the form of the preaching of the 
Gita-religion must, from the very beginning, have been more 
or less similar to the exposition contained in the present Gita. 
Tae exposition of the Gita in the Gita-Rahasya has been made 
by me on this basis ; yet, as this is a very important question, I 
shall here briefly state what results are arrived at, according to 
me, regarding the original form and the tradition of the Gita- 
religion, from the hisiorical point of view. 

I have shown in the tenth chapter of the Gita-Rahasya 
that the most pristine form of the Vedic religion was not 
pre-eminently Devotional, or Realisational, or Yogio, but was 
ritualistic, that is, Actional; and that the Veda-Samhitas, and 





HI - TH3. BUAGA.VATA RELIGION AKD THJi GiTA 761 


the Brahmaiias have principally enunciated thi^i Activistic 
religion of sacrificial Yajnas. As tliis religion v as later on 
systematically expornided in the Mimansa-Sritras of Jaimini, 
it acquired the tianie ‘Mim;lihsaka-ni;irga’. But £ Ithough the 
name‘Miniams'i’ was new, yet, tlic sacrificial leligion was 
undoubtedly ancient, and was i)roba!)ly the first -stage of the 
Vedic religion from the historical point of view. Before 
acquiring the name‘Miinaih.saka-in.arga’, it used to be known 
as‘Trayl-dharma’, tlia.t i.s, ‘the religion .supported by the three 
Vedas’; and the same name is to ho found in the Gita (See 
Gi. 9. A) and :'A). When this ritualistic Trayt-dharma was 
being rigorously observed, liow was it possible co Realise the 
.raramoivara by thi-i Karma, that is, this ejdernal para¬ 
phernalia 01 ' Yiijnas and sacrificial rites 'i There tl en gradually 
arose the (lould.s aiul objections, that as Realisation was a 
mental process, it would he impossihle to acqnin Realisation, 
unless one contemplated on the form of the Bara nesvara etc,; 
and this rrayt-dliaviua gradually came to include the 
Knowledge cortainod in the Upanisads, as is evident from the 
iiitrodnctory passage,s at the commencement of the Chandogya 
and other Uiiani.sad.s. 'I’lils Kno'vledgo of the Brahman 
contained in the Upanisad.s suh.se.quontly acqu .red the name 
‘Vedanta’. .But although this word ‘Vedanta’ his come into 
existence .subsequently like the word ‘Mhnaihsa’, yet, the 
Knowledge of the Brahman, or the .Path of Knowledge, does 
not, on that account, liecorne .sometliing new. I, is true that 
the ..)n:i,na-k:inda came to ho formulated after the Karrna-kanda; 
yet, one must not forget that both of them were incient. The 
Krlpila-Samkhya philosophy is aiiutlier and ar independent 
branch of this l‘ath of Knowledge, I have ;;tated in the 
Gita-Rahasya, that whereas Vedanta, was Non-Dualistic, 
Ma,mkhya philosophy was Biialistic., and that, the Baiiikhya 
doctrines regarding the gene.si.s of the Gosmos are fundamentally 
different. But although the Non-Dualistic Knowledge of the 
Brahman mentioned in the Upanisads is fundamentally 
different from the Dualistic Samkhya philosophy, yet, from the 
point of view of K nowledge, both these patht were equally 
antagonistic to the prior ritualistic Path of Action {karma- 
tnarga). This naturally gave rise to the problem of the 



763 


GITA-EAHASYA OR KARMA-YOGA 

harmonisation of Karma with Knowledge; and there had 
arisen two sects in this matter already in the times of the 
Upanisads. The Brhadarariyaka and other Upanisads and the 
Samkhya philosophers began to say that on account of the 
perpetual conflict between Karma and Jhana, it was not only 
proper but even necessary to give up Karma after the 
Acquisition of Knowledge; and on the other hand, the Isavasya 
and other Upanisads began to say, that one cannot give up 
Karma even after the Acquisition of Knowledge, and that a 
Jhanin must continue performing Action for the purpose of 
carrying on the affairs of the world, after making his Reason 
desireless, by cultivating apathy towards the world. An 
attempt has been made in the commentaries on these Upanisads 
to do away with this conflict. But, these doctrine-supporting 
interpretations in the Saihkarabhasya are stretched; and they 
cannot be accepted if one considers the Upanisads independently,, 
as has been stated by me at the end of the eleventh chapter of 
the Gitfi-Rahasya. It becomes clear from the exposition in 
the Maitryupanisad that this attempt was not restricted only 
to the harmonisation of Karma in the form of ritualistic 
performances with the Knowledge of the Brahman; but that 
about this time, attempts were also made to harmonise, as far 
as possible, the Science of the Mutable and the Immutable, which 
had arisen independently in the Saihkhya philosophy, with 
the Knowledge of the Brahman in the Upanisads. The 
Brhadarapyaka and other ancient Upanisads do not attach much 
importance to the Kapila Samkhya philosophy. But, the 
Maitryupanisad wholly adopts the Samkhya terminology, and 
propounds the theory that the 34 Elementary Principles of the 
Saifikhyas have originally sprung from one Parabrahman. 
But even the Kapila Samkhya philosophy is in support of 
Renunciation, that is to say, contrary to Energism (karma). 
Therefore, it is seen that from very ancient times there were 
already three schools of Vedanta philosophy, namely, (1) the 
path of merely performing ritual in the shape of Sacrifice etc.; 
(3) the path of abandoning Action, by means of Knowledge 
and Apathy to the world, that is to say, the Path of Knowledge 
or the Samkhya Path; and (3) the Knowledge-Action (jnam- 
karnui-sumuccaya) path of continually performing Action,. 



IV - The BHAGAVATA religion and TH3S GiTA 763 


with Knowledge, and with an apathetic frame of mind. From 
the Path of Knowledge, out of these three paths, the two 
subsidiary branches of Yoga and Devotion have subsequently 
come into existence. It is stated in the Ghandog/a and other 
ancient Upanisads, that it is necessary to meditate on the 
Brahman in order to acquire the Knowledge of the Para- 
brahman; and that it is necessary to concentrate ttie Mind, and 
for that purpose, to place before tiro eyes, in the first place, 
some qualityful symbol of the Parabrahmai, in order 
to succeed in this thought, contemplation, or meditation. 
As the Concentration of the Mind acquired in worshipping 
the Brahman thus acquired a special importance later on. 
Yoga, in the shape of the ‘ Concentration of the M ind became 
an independent path by itself; and, by a tangible human- 
formed Paramesvara being taken for worship, instead of 
a qualityful symbol, the Path of Devotion gradually came 
into existence. This idea of Devotion in the Pat i of Devotion 
has not come into existence independently, at some intermediate 
period of time, and inconsistently with the Spiritual Know¬ 
ledge contained in the Upanisads; nor has it been imported 
into India from some other country. When one considers 
serinlirn all the various Lpanisads, one comes to t le conclusion 
that, in the beginning, the various parts of the Yajha, or 
the OM-kara, and later on, Vedic deities like Rudri, Yisnu, etc., 
or qualityful perceptible symbols of the Brahmin like Ether 
etc., came to bs) worshipped for the purpose of the meditation 
on the Brahman; and that with the same end in view, that 
is, with the idea of reaching the Brahman, the Devotion to, 
that is, a kind of worship of, Rama, Nrsimhi., Sri Krsna, 
Vasudeva, etc., came to be started thereafter. Gut of these, 
the Yoga-tattva and other (Jpanisads on the Yoga, or the 
Nrsimha-tapani, Rama-tapanl, and other Upanisads, which 
are devotional, are clearly seen to be more ancient than the 
Chandogya and other Upanisads, when one considers their 
language. Therefore, it becomes necessary to say from the 
historical point of view, that the Paths of Yoga and of 
Devotion, acquired importance only after the three paths of 
(i) Karma, (ii) Jnana, or Samnyasa, and (iii) Jnana-Karraa- 
samuccaya, described in the Chandogya and other ancient 






764 GITA-RAHASYA OR KARMA-YOGA 


Fpanisads had come into existence. But, although the paths 
■of Yoga and of Devotion acquired importance later on, the 
importance of the previous Knowledge of the Brahman was 
not thereby diminished; and it was not possible that it should 
be so diminished; and therefore, even in those Upanisads, which 
support Yoga or Devotion, we find statements that the 
Knowledge of the Brahman is the ultimate ideal of Devotion 
■and of Yoga; and that Rudra, Visnu, Acyuta, Narayana, or 
Vasudeva and ether objects of worship, are only forms of the 
Paramatman or of the Parabrahman (See Maitryu. 7. 7; Ramapu. 
16; Amrtabindu. 22 etc.). In short, the various sub-divisions of 
religion, which have from time to time been promulgated by 
various Self-Realised {atma-jMnin) sages into the Vedic religion, 
■at different times, have ari.sen from the aspects of religion 
■which were then already in vogue; and it has been the principal 
tendency of the growth of the Vedic religion, from the very 
beginning, to harmonise new aspects of religion with the older 
aspects; and the writers of the Smrtis have later on expounded 
the arrangement of the various stages of life, by adhering to 
this tendency of harmonising various aspects of religion. 
When one considers this ancient Indian tendency of harmonising 
various aspects of religion, it i.y not proper to say that the Gita- 
religion was the only exception to this previous and subsequent 
tendency. 

I have mentioned above the general history of the growth 
of the principal aspects of the Vedic religion, namely, the 
ritualistic Karma mentioned in the Brahmanas, the Spiritual 
Knowledge in the Upanisads, the Kapila-Saihkhya philosophy, 
Yoga in the shape of Concentration of the Mind, and 
Devotion. Let us now comsider the origin of the consideration 
■of all these various aspects of religion which has been jnado in 
the Gita—that is, whether it has been taken into the Gita 
directly from various distinct Upanisads, or there is any 
intermediate stage. Where the Knowledge of the Brahman 
alone is being considered in the Gita, stanzas from the Katha 
and other Upanisads have been adopted word for word into the 
Oita; and where the Jhana-Karma (Knowledge-Action) 
combination path is being dealt with, illustrations have been 
taken from the Upanisads of persons like Janaka etc. From 





IV - Tiie BHAGAVATA religion and TH:a GiTA 7()5 


these facts, one would think that the Gita must have been 
based on tlie Upanisads themselves. But, if we consider the 
genesis of the Gita-religion, which has been given in the Gita 
itself, we find that the Upanisads are nowhere mentioned in it. 
Just as Sacrifice included in Knowledge is considered superior in 
the Gita to the sacrifice of wealth (Gi. 4. J‘3), so a Iso does the 
Chandogyopanisad say that human life is a kind of Yajna 
(sacrifice), (( han, 3.16,17); and in describing the worth of such a 
sacrifice, it .say.s that, “the Cult of this Yajna was taught 113 ^ a 
hsi named (yhora Angirasa ti) Devakiputra Krsna’’. There is no 
authority for looking upon this Devakiputra Krsna as the same as 
the Krsna of the Gita. But, even if it is assumed for a moment that 
both of them were one and the same, yet, it must st ill be borne 
in mind that Ghora Angirasa has nowhere been mentioned in 
the Gita as en authority for considering the Sacrifice included 
in Spiritual Knowledge as Kup(?rior. Besido.s, although the path 
followed by Janaka was a comtiination of Jfiana and Karma, 
yet, Devotion had not been incorporated into that path in 
his times, as is quite clear from the Brbadaran 3 akopanisad; 
and, therefore, Janaka does not appear in tfio traditional history 
of the path, which combines JMna and Karma wi 1 h Devotion; 
nor has the Gita so included him. It is stated at the beginning 
of the fourth chapter of the Gita (Gi. 4. I--3) that the religion of 
the Gita was first taught by the Blo.ssed Lord to Vivaavaii in 
the beginning of the Yuga, then by Vivasvan to Mann, and 
then by Manu to Iksvaku; but that, as it got lost : 11 cour^ of 
time, it had again to be preached to Arjuiia. Although these 
stanzas are of utmost importance for undenslanding the 
growth of the Gita-religion, commentators have not gone beyond 
giving their literary meaning, in order to elucidate them ; and 
it would ap])ear that doing so would even not h ive been in 
their interests. Because, if it were adm itted that the (lita-religion 
was originally of a particular cult, other religious cults could 
not but to that extent suffer in inii)ortance. But, I have 
shown with authorities in the commencement of the 
Gita-Rahasya, as also in my commenta.ry on the first and second 
stanzas of the fourth chapter of the Gita, that the tradition of 
the Gita is consistent with the tradition of the Bhagavata 
religion in the Tretayuga, that is, the last Yuga, which has 




766 


G-lTA-EAHASyA OR KARMA-YOGA 


been mentioned in the ISfarayanlya Upakhyana of the MahS- 
bharata. Considering this similarity between the traditi(jn of 
the Bhagavata doctrine and of the Gita-religion, one is forced 
to admit that the Gita is a l)ook which supports the Bhagavata 
religion; and if there is any doubt about it, that is fully 
removed by the statement of Vaisarhpayana in the Mahabharata 
(Ma. Bha. San. 346. 10), that: “in the Gita, only the Bhagavata 
religion has been mentioned ”. When it has been thus proved, 
that the Gita is not an independent treatise dealing with 
Vedanta, that is to say, with the Spiritual Knowledge of the 
Upanisadss, but that it supports the Bhagavata religion, it 
need not be said that any criticism on the Gita, which does 
not take into account the Bhagavata religion, must be 
incomplete and confusing. I will, therefore, give here in short, 
all the available informatio 2 r regarding the date when the 
Bhagavata religion was first promulgated, and a,s to what 
its original form was. I have stated above in the Gita-Rahasya 
that this Bhagavata religion was also known as the ‘Naraya- 
nlya ’, the ‘ Satvata ’, (jr the ‘ Pancaratra ’ religion. 

As, many of the Vcdic religious treatises written after 
the date of the Upanisads and before the date of Buddha, have 
been lost, the only available principal W(.)rks relating to the 
Bhagavata religion, in addition to the Gita, are the Narayaniyu 
Upakhyana mentioned in the 18th chapter of the Santiparva 
of the Mahabharata (Ma. Bha. San. 334-351), the Sandijya- 
Sutras, the Bhagavata-Purana, the Narada-Pancaratra, the 
Narada-Sutras, and the works of Ramanujacarya and others. 
Out of these, the works of Ramanujacarya have been avowedly 
written in about the twelfth century of the Salivahana era 
for supporting a doctrine, that is to say, in order to harmonise 
the Gita with the Qualified-Monistic ( visistadvaila ) Vedanta 
of the Bhagavata religion. Therefore, one cannot rely oir 
these hooks for determining the original form of the Bhagavata 
religion; atid the same is the case with the hooks written by 
Madhvacarya and other followers of the Vaisnava doctrine. 
The Sriraad Bhagavata-Purana is earlier in point of time than 
these. But, it i.s .stated in the very beginning of this Purana 
(Bhag. Skan, 1. Ch. 4 and 5) that, because the exposition of 
the Renunciatory Bhagavata religion contained in the Maha- 




[V - The BHAGAVATA religion and TH3 GITA 767 


bharata, and necessarily also in the Gita, had not been made as 
it onght to have been made, and as Vyasa on tha: account felt 
sorry, since “Desireless Action {tifiiskarmya) by itself was useless 
without Devotion”, he, at the instance of Narada, aud in order to 
put an end to iii.s mental anguish, wrote the Bhaga vata-Puraiiai 
which maintiuned the worth of Devotion. If lhi,s story is 
considerod I'rom the historical point of view, it will be seen 
that when the doctrine of Desireless Action to which importance 
had been gi\ cn in the original Bhagava,ta religion oi the Bharata, 
l(.),st it;'! infhiem.;e in coui-.so of time, and Devotion acquired 
importance in.ytead, the Bhagavata-lTirana came io be written 
in order to expound thi:,'. second Bh-igavata religion (that is, 
in which Di;votioii wa:! predoininant). Tlie Narad;i-Pancaratra 
is also ol' the same kind; that is, it deals purely wioh Devotion, 
and conl.aiu;! a specific reference by name to the Bhagavata- 
Purana of 12 skam^haft, the Brahma-Vaivarta-Iurana,, tiie 
Visnu-Purana, the Gita, and the Mahabharata ( see Na. Pah. 2. 
7. 28-32; 3 14. 73 iind 4. 3. 151). B, therefore, j ollow.s that 
this work is lo.ss important than the Bhagavata-Purana for 
determining the original form of th(> Bhagavata religion. It 
is possilde that the NArada-Siitras and the San lilya-Sutras 
are earlier in date tlian the Narada-Pancaratra. Still, as the 
Narada-Sutrn,s (!(.)ntain a reference to Vyfisa f nd to Suka 
( Na. Sii, 83), there Is no doubt that they are ]a:er in point 
of time than the Bharata and the Bhagavata; ind as the 
Sandilya-Sutras contain stanzas taken fr(.)in the B'lagavadgita 
(San. Sti, 9. 15 and 83), they must be later in point of time 
than the Gitii and the Mahaliharata, though earlier than the 
Jslarada-Sutriis (Na. Su. 83). Therefore, in order to de,ermine the 
(irigioal and the ancient form of the Bhagavata religion, one 
ha.s ultimately to rely on the Narayanlya Upaklijana of the 
Mahabharata, Both in the Bhagavata-Purana (1. 3. 24) and in 
the Narada-Pancaratra (4, 3, 156-159 ; 4. 8. 81), Buddlia has been 
referred to as an incarnation of Visnu. But the ten incarna¬ 
tions mentioned in the Narayanlyakhyana do not include 
Buddha ; and Haihsa is stated to he the first incarnatirn, whereas 
the incarnation of Kalki is mentioned immediately after that 
of Krsna (Mo. Bha. San. 339. 100). This fact also jn-oves that 
the Narayauiyakhyana is earlier in point of time than the 





768 


GiTA-RAHASYA OR KARMA-YOGA 


Bhagavata-Purana and the Narada-Pancaratra. In the 
Narayanlyakhyana, there is a statement that the Bhagavata 
religion, that is, the Narayaniya religion, was originally founded 
by the two Rsis Nara and Narayana, who were the incarnations 
of the Parabrahman; and that when the Rsi Narada went at 
their direction to the Svetadvipa, the Blessed Lord Himself first 
preached this religion to him there; the statement in the 
Narayanlyakhyana that the Svetadvipa, where the Blessed 
Lord resided, was in the Kslra-samudra, which was stated to be 
to the north of the Mountain Mem, is consistent with the ancient 
description of the Cosmos given in the Puranas ; and no one on 
our side attaches much importance to it. But the Western 
Sanskritist Webber has perverted this very story, and started the 
argument that the Philosophy of Devotion mentioned in the 
Bhagavata religion was imported into India from the Svetadvipa, 
that is to say, from some countiy outside India; and that in 
as much as this Philosophy of Devotion was in those days not 
in vogue in any religion except the Christian religion, the idea 
of Devotion was picked up by the followers of the Bhagavata 
religion from Christian countries. But, there is proof that 
Panini knew the doctrine of Devotion to Vasudeva, and there 
are references to the Bhagavata religion or to the Philosophy of 
Devotion both in the Buddhistic and Jain religious treatises; 
and there is no doubt that both Panini and Buddha lived before 
Chi'ist. Therefore, even Western philosophers have now pro¬ 
nounced this argument of Webber to be without foundation. 
I have stated above that Devotion, as a jjart of religion, came 
into existence in India after the date of the Upanisads which 
contain Spiritual Knowledge. It is, therefore, beyond doubt 
that the Bhagavata religion, which consi.sted of Devotion to 
Vasudeva, came into existence after the Upanisads, which 
preached Spiritual Knowledge, and before Buddha. The only 
question is how many centuries * before Buddha that religion 
* The word ‘hhaktincin? (in Pali, ‘bhattimu’ ) appears in the 
Ther GathS (stanza 370); and one Jataka. even contains a reference 
to Devotion. Besides this, the well-known French Pali scholar 
Senart, delivered a lecture on the subject of 'The Origin of the 
Buddhistic religion’ in 1909, in which he has clearly said that the 
Bhagavata religion existed before the Buddhistic religion, c/: 




:iv - The BHAGAVATA EELIGION and the GITA 76^ 


came into (ixiHtonce; and although it is not possille to answer 
that question with absolute precision, yet, as will appear from, 
what follows, it is not at all impossible to get a rough idea of 
its date. 

It has been .stated in the Gita that the Bhagevata religion 
preached b.y Sri Krsua to Vivasvaii was lost Ite 'ore that date 
(Gi. 4. 2);and the philosophy of this religion gi^'es the name 
‘Vasudeva’ to the Paramos vara, ‘Samkarsana’ to Jiva,. 
‘Pradyumna’ to Manus, and ‘Aiiiruddha’ to A.haihKara. Out of 
these, Va.sudeva is the name of Sri K rsna himself; Saihkarsana 
is the name of his older brother Balarama ; and Pradyumna and 
Aniruddha are name.s of his son and graiidson. Besides, the 
word‘Satva ;a’, which is another name for this religion, is also 
the name of the community, namely, the Yadava community^ 
in which Sri Krsna was liorn, Erom this it is clear, that this 
religion was promulgated in the family and the community 
in which Sri Krsna was born, and that it was preached by 
Sri Kr.sna to hi!i clear friend, Arjuna; and the story in 
the Purfi-nas, is the same. Be.sido!-,, as there is als .i a tradition 
that the Sat.vata community came to an end with the death of 
Sri Krsna, it was impossible that this religion coi.Id have been 
further in-omulgated even in the Satvata commun ty after the 
death ol' Sj-l Krsna. It is po.ssihle to historically explain the 

'■'No out) will clfiiin to derive from Buddhism, V.isUuuisni or the 

Yoga, Aaeuredly Buddhism is the borrower".“To sum up, if 

there hud not previously existed a religion made up of the doctrines 
of Yoga, or Vishnuite legends, of devotion to Visanu-Krishna, 
worshlppad under tho title of Bhagavnta,, Buddhism would not have 
come to iiirtli at nil ", This essay of Sonart h.as been published in 
the form of u trsinslation in the issues of the Indian Interpreter, a 
Missionary quarterly published at Poona, for the months of October 
1909 and Jiin. 1910 ; tho passages (pioted above wiT be found at 
pages 177 & ITS of the January issue. Dr. BUhlei also has said 
that ‘‘tho ancient Bhagavata, Satvata or Pahcaratra se.d, devoted to 
the worship of Narayana anil his deified teacher Krishna-Devaki~ 
pntra, da;,ed from a jieriod long anterior to the rise of the .Tainas in 
the 8th Century”—Indian Antiquary, Vol. XXXII ( 1894), p. 248. 
A further detailed exposition of this matter has beea made in th 
sixth part of this Appendix balow, to which the reader is referred. 





770 


GITA-RAHASYA OR KARMA-YOGA 


various names of this religion, by saying that this religion, 
which was thus promulgated by Sri Krsna, may have been in 
existence before His time to some extent or other under the 
name of the ‘Narayaniya’ or ‘Pancaratra’ religion ; and that it 
later on acquired the name of ‘Satvata’, after it was spread in 
the Satvata community; and that it came to be called the 
‘ Bhagavata ’ religion in the belief that the Blessed Lord Sri 
Krsna and Arjuna were respectively the incarnations of Nara 
and Narayana. Thus, it is not necessary to imagine that there 
were three or four different Sri Krspas, and that each of them 
added a little to the religion ; and there is in fact no evidence 
for coming to such a conclusion. This idea has gained ground 
on account of the g(.)od or bad changes which have taken place 
in the original religion. But if, though Buddha, Christ, or 
Mahomed were each one individual by themselves, there came 
about many good or bad change.s in their religions, then there 
is no occasion in my opinion for l)elieving that there must have 
been several Sri Krsnas, on the ground that the original 
Bhagavata religion later on acquired different fornis, or that 
different ideas later on gained ground regarding Sri Krsna. 
Whichever religion is taken, it is quite easy and natural that it 
should change its form in the course of time ; and it i.s not neces¬ 
sary on that account to believe that there were several Krsnas, or 
Buddhas, or Christ.s, or Mahomeds. * Some people—especially 

^ The life vf Sri Krsua iucliides amorous passages with Gopis 
(cowherdesses) side by side with prowess, devotion and philosophy ; 
and these things are mutually inconsistent. On this ground, many 
learned people maiutaiu uow-a-days that the Sri Krsoa of the 
Mahabharata was a different person from the Sri Krsna of the Gita 
or of Gokul; and this opinion has boon accepted by Dr. Bhandarkar 
in his book ‘Vaisnavism, Saivism, and other sects’". But, according 
tome, such an opinion is incorrect. It may be that the amorous 
descriptions which we read in the stories about Gopis may have been 
added afterwards ; and it is not necessary on that account to believe 
that there were various persons bearing the name of Sri Krsna ; and 
there is no authority except imagination for doing so. Besides, it is 
not that stories about Gopis came into vogue for the first time in 
the days of the Bhagavata; for, Gopis are referred to in the 
Buddha-carita ( 4 . 14) written by AsvagUosa in the beginning of the 




IV - the BHAGAVATA religion and the GITA 771 


Western imaginative people—have raised a doubt that Sri Krsna, 
the Yada\"us, the Pfuulavas, or the Bliaratl war, wore not historical 
facts at all, but are mere imaginary personages or stories; and 
in the opini(jn of some other persons, the Mahabharata is nothing 
but a tremendous metaphysical allegory deaiing with the 
Absolute Self. But, any impartial man will l ave to come to 
the conclusion that all such doubts are without any basis, if 
he con.siders the evidence of ancieni, works. There is no doubt 
that there is historical autlwrity at the root of those stories. In 
short, in my opinion, tl>ero were not four or five HrI Krsnas, but 
there was only one historical ivrrsonage of that nime. Now, in 
considering the date of this Sri Krsna, Rao Bahadui Chintamam-ao 
Vaidya lu,'.; expreiisod an opinion that Sri Krsna the Yadavas, 
the Pandava;;, and the Bharatl war, were all tomchronous, that 
is, to say, they all existed at the commencement of the Kaliyuga; 
that aocoi'iing to the mothud of calculation of t me .mentioned 
in the Puranas, a period of live thousand years or more has 
elap;?cid since then; and that, this is the true date of Sri Krsna. * 
But if one COnsidoris the generations of various king.s from the 
Pandavas apto the Salivahana era, which have been described 
in the Puranas, this date is iiiccusLstent with that calculation. 
Therefore, on the authority of the statement in tie Bhagavata, 
or in the Visnn-Purana, that “there arc 1115 [or 1015) years 
from the tfirth (.yf the king Pariksita upto the coronation of 
Nanda” ( Bhag. PI. 2. :i(); and Visnu. 4. 24. 12), historical 
scholars ha,ve now entne to the conclu.sion that the Pandavas 
and the Bliaratl war mu.st have been at least 140t' years before 
the Christian era. Neces.sarily, this will also le the date of 
Sri Krenu; and if this, date is accepted, it follows that Sri Krsna 
promulgated the Bhagavata religion at least 1400 years before 
Christ, and aliout 800 yoan; before Buddha. Some persons have 
Siika era, as also in the Balacurila (,'i. 2) Written, by Bhasa. I, 
therefore, consider the opinion of Chintamanrao V ddya more to 
the point than that of Br. Bhnndarkar. 

* This opinion of R,iO Bahadur Chinatamanrao Vaidya has 
b en expressed in his English eriticism on the Mahabharata; and 
ho a'so made the same statement in the lecture delivered by him on 
on the same subject in Poona in 1914 on the o,;casion of the 
anniversary of the Deccan Colleire. 




772 


GiTA-BAHASYA OE KARMA-YOGA 


raised an objection to this argument, that although Sri Krsna 
andthePandavas may be historical personages, yet, a considerable 
time must have elapsed between the death Sri Krsna and the time 
when Brahmins gave to a Ksatriya warrior like Him the position, 
first of a superman, then of Visnu, and ultimately of the 
Pai-abrahman; and that on that account the date of the rise of 
the Bhagavata religion cannot be looked upon as the same as 
the date of the Bharat! war. But, this opinion seems to be 
worthless. There is a world of difference between the idea.s of 
the modern critics as to who should bo deified and who not, and 
similar ideas of pe<jple living three or foui- thousand year,s ago 
(Gi. 10. 41); and there are stateinents in Upanisads, which 
existed prior to the date of Sri Krsna, tirat a Jfianin himself 
becomes merged in the Brahman (Br 4. 4. 6); and it is clearly 
stated in the Maitryupariisad that Rudra, Visnu, Acyuta and 
Narayana are all Brahman (Maitryu. 7. 7). Then, why should there 
have been delay in the matter of Sri Krsna acquiring the Para- 
brahman status? If we consider history, Buddha used to call 
himself ‘brahmih/iuta (See Seiasutta, 14; Theragatha, 831); and he 
was worshipped as a god in his life-time; audit appears from 
reliable Buddhistic works that shortly after his death, he had 
acquired the positic^n of 'devadhkkmi', or of the Parabrahman 
according to Vedic religion; and the same is the case with 
Christ. It is true that Sri Krsna was not an ascetic like Buddha 
or Christ, and that the Bhagavata religion does not support 
Renunciation. But, there could have been no difficulty on that 
account in the promulgator of the Bhagavata religion acquiring 
the form of a god or of the Brahman from the very beginning, 
as was acquired by the promulgators of the Buddhist and 
Christian religions. 

Though the date of Sri Krsna has been defined in this way, 
and although it is proper and logical to look upon that date 
as the date of the rise of the Bhagavata religion, Western 
scholars are, for quite a different reason, unwilling to do so. 
Many of these scholars are still of opinion that the Rg-Veda 
is not more ancient than 1500 or perhaps 3000 years before 
Christ, and therefore, they think it improbable that the 
devotional Bhagavata religion could have come into existence 
about 1400 years before Christ; because the Vedic religious 





IV - The BHAGAYATA religion and THE GITA 773 


literature itself establishes the order that the Rg.-Veda was 
followed by the Yajurvoda and the Brahniaua treatises, and 
that the Lpanisads dealing with Spiritual Knowledge and 
the Samkhya philosophy came afterwards, and that the devo¬ 
tional philosophical books came into existence last of all; 
and if one considers the treatises on the Bhagavata religion 
themselvf!?, one also clearly sees that the Spiritual Knowledge 
of the Upanisads, the Samkhya philosophy. Yoga in the form 
of ‘Concentration of the Mind’, and other aspects of religion 
were current long before the advent of the Bhagavata religion. 
Even if we economise time considerably, we have to admit that 
a period of at least ten to twelve hundred years must have 
elapsed between the date of the Rg-Veda and thn advent of the 
Bhagavata religion, in order to give sufficient time for these 
various a.spects of religion to have come into oxis;ence and fully 
developed therasolvos; and if it is believed that the Bhagavata 
religion was promulgated by Sri Krsna in His own time, that 
is to say, about 1400 year.s before Christ, then a sufficient period 
of time is. not allowed for the giajwth of these various aspects 
of religion according to the opinion of those s<iholars ; because, 
these .scholars place the Rg-Yoda itself at 1500 to iJOOO years 
before Christ; and (jn that ci.)mputation, one has 1o say that the 
Bhagavata religion came into existence about 100 years or 
at most 500 to 600 years after that date; and Iherefore, some 
Western scholars have even come forward to dissociate Sri 
Krsna from the Bhagavata religicni on this c)r on some other 
meaningless excuse, and to say that the Bblgavata religion 
must have come int<i existence after the date of Buddha. But, 
the relerences to the Bhagavata religion, which the Jain and 
Buddhistic treatises themselves contain, dear y show that 
that religion must have been in existence bdore the date of 
Buddha: and therefore, Dr. Biihler has said that instead of 
placing the date of the advent t)f the Bhagavata religion after 
the date of Buddha, the date of the Rg-Veda itself must be pushed 
back, as lias been stated by me in my book, called Orion. * 
The dates fixed by Western scholars for our Vedio literature on 
* See the Review made by Dr. Bfihler of my book Orinu in 
the issue of the Indian Antiquary for September 1894 ( Vol. 
2XIII, pp. 238-249). 



774 


GiTA-EAHASYA OR KAEMA-YOGA 


Bome insufficiently sound grounds, are wrong; and the date of 
the starting-point of the Vedic era cannot be taken at less than 
4500 years before Christ, as has been proved in my book Orion 
on the strength of the phrases in the Vedas, which show the then 
existing Udagayana (i.e., period during which the Sun seems 
to travel towards the N orth—Trans.); and this conclusion has 
now been accepted by many Western scholars. When in this 
way, the date of the Eg-Veda has been taken back, a sufficient 
period of time can be allowed for the gi-owth of all the 
various aspects of the Vedic religion, and there is no more any 
necessity for pushing forward the date of the rise of the 
Bhagavata religion. As the Brahmana treatises written after 
the Eg“Veda coj^tain the astronomical calculation of the year 
starting with the Sun in the Krttika constellation, their date 
has to be fixed at about 2500 years before Christ, as has been 
shown by the late Shankara Balkrishna Dikshit in his History 
of the Indian Astronontical Science (bharatlya-jyoiih-sastra) 
written in the Marathi language. But, I do not see this method 
of fixing the date,s of ancient books by considering how the 
Udagayana was then started being applied to the Upanisads. 
Some scholars have come to the conclusion that none of the 
Upanisads can be more than 400 to 500 years before Buddha, on 
the ground that the language and construction <.)f devotional 
Upanisads like the EamatapanI, or Yogic Upanisad.y like the 
Yogatattva, is not archaic. But, if one considers the matter 
according to the aboveinentioned method of calculation of time, 
it will be seen that such a conclusion is. wrong, ft i.s true 
that the dates of all the Upanisads cannot be fixed acc(5rding to 
the astronomical method of calculation ; yet, this metluH is very 
useful for fixing the date of the principal Upanisads. Prof. Max 
Muller* has said that, from the linguistic point of view, the 
Maitryupanisad is more ancient than Panini, because, we find 
in this Upanisad, many compounds of words, used in a cJumda, 
which had gone out of vogue at the date of Paniiii, but 
which are to be found in the Maitrayani Samhita. But the 
Maitrayanyupanisad is not the very first nor a very ancient 
Upanisad. Not only has harmony been established between 
See Sacred Books of the East Series Vol, XV Intro pp. 
xlviii-lii. 




iV - The BHAGAVATA RELIGION and THE GiTA 775 


Knowledge of the Brahman and Saihkhya philosophy in the 
Maitrayanyupanisad, hut in many places, phrases or even 
stanzas f]-uin the Chandogya, Brhadaranyaka, Taittirlya, Katha, 
and Isavasya are seen being taken as authorities. The actual 
name-; of these Upanisads are not mentioned in the Maitryu- 
panisad; hut as, in quoting these phrases, words implying 
quotation such as ' enun hyafui ’ or ‘ ukfa/'n ca ' (i. e,, ‘.ycj it is 
said’) are placed hefore the quotations, there is no doubt that these 
quotations are taken from some other book, and ai'e not written 
by the \^’riter of the Maitryupanisad; and one can easily 
detei-tnine which Upanisad ha.s been (juoted from, hy a .reference to 
these othu' Upanisads. Now, whei*e the description of the 
Brahman in the shape of 'hTilti' (Time) or ‘safnvd'sarn' (Year) is 
made in tie Maitryupanisad (Maitryu. (). 14), it is stated that: 
“the Daksinayana (i. e., wdien the Kun seems to travel toward.? 
the South'—Trans.) lasts from the day when the Sun enters to 
Magha constellation until it reache.s the centre-point of the 
Sravistha, that is, the Dhaiiislha constellation (r,|’. “maghadyaf'n 
kmvisthardhdJn” ); and that the tJttarayana ( )r LIdagayana, 
during w'lich the Sun seems to travel towards the North— 
Trans,) used to be from the beginning of the 8a ’pa, that is, the 
Aslesa constellation, in an inverse order upto tie centre-point 
of the Dhanist.ha constellation, that is, counting backwards a? 
Aslesa, Busya, etc.’’. It is quite clear that tJicse exprassions, 
which show the method of calculation of tin Udagayana 
must have been used with reference to the period of the 
Udagayana which was then in vogue; and in this way, the date 
of that Upanisad can easily be mathematically calculated. But 
no one seems to have considered the matter from this point of 
view, 'J’his state of the Udagayana, referred to in the 
Maitryupanisad, is earlier than the state of the Udagayana 
referred to in the Vedanga-Jyotisa; because, it is clearly stated 
in the t^edanga-Jyotisa that the commenenment of the 
Udagayana i.s from the beginning of the Bhaiiistha constella¬ 
tion, whereas in the Maitryupanisad, the coinrneiKiemont i.s from 
the middle of the Dhaiiistha. There is a difference of opinion as 
to whether th.e term ‘ardham' in the phrase ‘sraidtsfhardhcm' is 
to be interpreted at; meaning ‘exactly half’ or ‘somewhere 
between Dhanistha and Satataraka’. Whatever may be the 





776 


GiTA-RAHASYA OR KARMA-YOGA 


ease, there is no doubt about the fact that the state of the 
Udagayana mentioned in the Maitryupanisad is earlier in point 
of time than that mentioned in the Vedahga-Jyotisa. Therefore, 
it must be said that the Udagayana at the date of the Vedanga- 
Jyotisa was about half a constellation behind the Udagayana at 
the date of the Maitryupanisad. ft is proved by astronomical 
calculations that the state of the Udagayana mentioned in the 
Vedahga-Jyotisa existed about 1200 to 1400 years before Christ;* 
and in as much as the Udagayana takes about 480 years 
to recede by half a constellation, it follows by mathematical 
calculation that the Maitryupanisad must have been written 
somewhere between 1880 to 1680 years before Christ. At 
any rate, there is no doubt that this Upanisad was previous 
in point of time than the Vedanga-Jyoti.sa. It need not, 
therefore, be said that the Chandogya and other Upanisads, 
from which quotations have been taken into the Maitryu¬ 
panisad, are still earlier in point of time. The date of 
the Rg-Veda being in this way fixed at 4500 years before 
Christ, that of the Brahmauas, dealing with sacrificial 
ritual, being fixed at about 2500 years before Christ, and that 
of the Chandogya and other Upanisads dealing with Spiritual 
Knowledge being fixed at about 1600 years before Christ, the 
reason for which Western scholars bring forward the date of 
the Bhagavata religion ceases to exist, and there is no more 
any difficulty in the way of Sri Krsna and the Bhagavata 
religion being tied together by the cord of synchrony, like a cow 
and a calf; and then, this date also becomes consistent with 
the state of things mentioned in Buddhistic treatises, or 
established by other historical evidence. The Vedic age comes 
to an end, and the Siitras and the Smrtis begin, at about 
this time. 

The above-mentioned calculation of time proves beyond 
doubt that the Bhagavata religion came into existence about 

* I have discussed the date of the Vedabga-Jyotisa in my work 
Orion in English ; the late Shankara Balkrishna Diksit has also 
done so in his book called ‘Historical Survey of the Bharatlya- 
Jyotih lustra (pp. 87 to 94 and 127 to 139). The date of Vedic 
treatises according to the Udagayana, has been considered in the 
same place. 





IV- The BHAGAVATA religion and the GITA 777 


1400 yearn before Christ, that is to say, about 700 to 800 years 
before Buddha. Thin age is very ancient; yet, the Path of Action 
mentioned in the Brahmana-treatises is still more ancient, and, as 
has been stated above, the S])iritiial Knowledge contained in the 
LIpanisads and hi bathkhya philosophy was f illy in vogue 
long before th('proniulgation of the Bbagavata religion. It is 
in my opinion, entirely wrong to imagine that a clever Jhanin 
like Sri KrKiia would have promulgated Hi,s migion at such 
a time without reference to this Bjdritual Knowledge or these 
aspects of Religion; and that, twen if He litd done so, it 
would havn become accojitable to tlic Rajarsis and Brahmarsis 
of tho^e days or found circulation among the people. As 
the Jews to whom Chri.st first ])reacbed His rtdigion, were 
.not acquainted with religions philosophy at the time, He 
had no need to harmoiibso His own religion with any religious 
phikeophy. It was enough, for H.iin to sJiow that His 
Philo.'!oph>' of .Devotion was (,)nly a continuation of the 
Rituali,stic religion do.scribcd in the Old I’oscainent of the 
Bible; and tliat was all lie attonqited to do. But, when one 
compares this history of the (lliriidian religion with the 
Bhagavata religion from the historical point of v..ew, one must 
not forget that the people to whom the Bhagavata religion was 
preached were, at the time at which it was preached, fully 
conversant, nut only with tlio Path of Action, but also with the 
Vedaiitic Knowledge of the Brabmaii and the Kapila Saihkhya 
philosophy, and that they had by that time also learnt to 
harmonise tin we three religion.s. I t would have been most 
uureasi)uabl(3 to ask such people to ])ut on the .shelf their 
Rituali.stic: religion, or the Spiritual Knowledge derived from the 
Upani.sads, or Samkhya phih.wophy, and to accept the Bhagavata 
religion tnerely by faith. Unles.s the Bhagavata religion 
satisfactorily answered sucir (luestions as, ‘what is the result of 
the sacrificial ritual descril)ed in the Vudic treati.ses and in 
vogue at the time’?, ‘whether the Bpiritual Knowledge mentioned 
ill the U])auisad.s or in Bamkhya philo.sophy ii futileV’, or, 
‘whether the Philos(,)phy of Devotion can be harmonised with 
Yoga in rhe shape of Concentration of the IMind'?’, which 
questions would naturally arise, it would have been imp()s.‘;ib]e 
for that religion to gain any ground at all. It, therefore, follows 





778 


GlTA-RAHASYA OR KARMA-YOGA 


logically that, it was necessary to discuss all these matters, to- 
start with, in dealing with theBhagavata religion; and the same 
conclusion is emphasised, if one C(mKiders the Narayani- 
yopakhyana included in the Mahabharata, in this Akhyana, 
the Spiritual Knowledge of the Upaiiisads and the Saihkhya 
theory of the Perishable and the Imperishable have both been 
harmonised with the Bhagavata rtdigion; and it is clearly stated 
that; “it is called the ‘PMcaratra’ religion because the four 
Vedas and Saihkhya and Yoga are all included in it’’ (Ma. 
Bha, San, 339.107); and that “all those (philosophies) includingthe 
Vedas and the Aranyakas(naturally also, includingthe IJpanisads) 
are all parts of each other’’ (San, 348. 83). Although this expla¬ 
nation of the meaning of the word ‘Pahcaratra’ may not be 
grammatically correct, yet, it clearly shows that the Bhagavata 
religion had, already to start with, harmonised all kinds of philo¬ 
sophies. Still, harmonising the Philosophy of Devotion with other 
aspects of religi(.)n is also not any important part of the Bhagavata 
religion. It is not that the religious princiide of Devotion was 
first enunciated in the Bhagavata religion. Worship of Rudra 
or of Visuu in some form or other had been started before the 
advent of the Bhagavata religion; audit baconie.s clear from 
the phrases quoted above from theMaitryupanisad (Maitryu. 7,7), 
that the idea that any object of worship whatsoever is a .symbol, 
or some kind of form of the Brahman, had also previously come 
into existence. It is true that the Bhagavata religion has 
taken Vasudeva as an object of worship instead of Rudra etc.; 
but at the same time, it is admitted both in the Gita and also 
in the Narayaniyopakhyana, that whatever may be the object 
of worship, the worship reaches one and the same Bhagavanta, and 
that Rudra and Bhagavana are not two. (Gi. 9. 33 ; Ma. Bha. San. 
341. 20-26), Therefore, one cannot coinuder the worship of 
Va.sudeva as the principal aspect of the Bhagavata religion. The 
Satvata community by which the Bhagavata religion was ob¬ 
served, produced Satyaki and other warriors, as also devotees of 
the Blessed Ijord like Bhisma and Arjuna, and also Sri Krsna, who 
engaged and caused others to be engaged in numerou.s activities, 
involving personal prowes.s. Therefore, the mo.st important 
teaching of the original Bhagavata religion was, that the 
illustration of these persons should be copied by other devotees 




IV - THE BH5.GAVATA RELIGION AND THE GiTA 77^ 


of the Blessed Lord, who should perform worldly activities like! 
warfare, etc,, which were then in vogue, according to the 
arrangemejit of the four castes. It i.s not that cho.se times did 
not produce persons with a renounced frame ol' nind, who had 
adopted the principle of Devotion as a ro.sult of intense renun¬ 
ciation, and given up worldly life; but that was not the 
principal element of the Bhagavat:i religion of the Satvatas or 
of Sri Krsna. The sum and substance of the adv i( e of Sri Krsna 
is, that after the Devotee of tlte Bh.'ssed Lord hits acquired the 
Knowledge of the Paramesvara, by mean!-, of Devotion, ho must,, 
like the Pai'amesvara, exert himself for tVio maintenance 
and upkei^p of the world. Already at the time of the 

Upanisads, Janaka and (.)thers had laid it dovn that oven 
those people, who had Realised tbc Brahman might with¬ 
out any difficulty take part in Desireless Action. But 
in those days, the Philosophy of Devotion ha.l not entered 
their doctrine; and whether <.)r not to poform worldly 
Action after tlie Acquisition of Knowltsdge w'as in those days, 
considered a matter of peiwaial volition only (\e. Su. 3. 4. 15). 
The Bhagavata religion wont .beyond tliis and Did down that 
Desireless Energisni {naislinrmija) wa.s better than Total Renun¬ 
ciation ; and it brought about a properfusion cf Energism, not 
only with Spiritual Knowledge, but ah'.o with Dsvotion. This 
is the most important achievement of the Bhagavata religion 
in the Iristory of the Vedic religion, and is somet hing which is 
different fi-oni what was done by the Smarta religion. The 
original promulgators of this religion, namely he Nara and 
Narayaiia Rsi:,, also engaged in Desireles.s Energism in this 
way; and it is statesd in one place in the Mahabharata that 
every one must do what wa.s done by them (Ma. Bha. Udyo. 48. 
21, 22); and in the NarayaiiTyakhyaiia, the characteristic 
feature of thi.s religion is clearly defined as “pravrfti luksartas 
caiva dharmo narayanatmalmh" (Ma. Bha. San. 347. 81), i. e., 
“ the Narayaiia or Bhagavata religion is ISnerglstio or 
Activistic Thi.s principle of Desiroless Action of the 
Narayanlya or the Bhagavata religion is known as. ‘naiiikarmya ^ 
and this wa.s the most important aspect of the original Bhagavata 
religion. But later on in course of time, this principle lost 
importance, and Devotion to Vasudeva combinac w'ith apathy 
9,1—99 




780 


GlTA-RAHASYA OR KARMA-YOGA 


towards the world came to he looked upon as the important part 
of this religion, as is apparent from the Bhagavata ; and in the 
Narada-Pancaratra, munfrns and taniran are included in the 
Bhagavata religion along with the Philosophy of Devotion. 
Yet, it is patent from the Bhagavata itself, that these are not 
the fundamental aspects of this religion; hecause, wherevei: 
there has been occasion in the Bhagavata to refer to the Satvata 
or the Narayaniya religion, it is stated that the religion of the 
Satvatas or of Narayana Rsi (that is, the Bhagavata religion) 
is ‘ of the nature of naiskarmi/a ’ (Bhag. 1, 3. 8 and 11. 4. 6 ); 
and it is stated that it had become necessary to preach the 
Devotional Bhagavata-Purana (Bhag. 1. 5. 12 ), hecause 
due importance had not been given to Devotion in the 
^ naiskarmija’ religion, '(’his proves beyond any doubt that 
the original Bhagavata religion was based on naiskarmya 
or Desireless Action, and that later on its form was changed in 
the course of time, and Devotion became the principal factor in it. 
I have already dealt above in the Oita-Rahasya with the other 
various historical questions, namely, (i) what was the difference 
between the original Bhagavata religion, which maintained 
a permanent fusion between Spiritual Knowledge, Devotion, 
and Prowess, and the path pre,scril)od by the Smrtis in the 
shape of the arrangement of the various ^3tages of life; (ii) how, 
as a result of the growth of the purely ascetic Jain and Buddhist 
religions, the Karma-Yoga in the Energi.stic Bhagavata religion 
lost ground, and it (the Bhagavata religion ) acquired its new 
form of Renunciation with Devotion ; and (iii) how the Vedic 
sects which came into exi.stence after the fall of Buddhism 
gave to the Bhagavadgita itself either a renunciatory, or a 
purely Devotional, or a Qualified-Monistic (form. 
1 shall, therefore, not repeat the same subject-matter here. 

From the short dissertation made above, my readers will 
have Been (i) when, the Bhagavata religion first came into 
prominence in the ancient course of the Yedic religion, (ii) how, 
although it was Energistic in the beginning, it later on became 
devotional; and (iii) how, still later on, in the time of Rama- 
nujacarya, it acquired the form of Qualified-Monism. The most 
ancient of these various forms of the Bhagavata religion, that 
is to say, the Desireless Activistic form, is the form of the Gita- 




IV - I'HE BHAGA VATA RELIGION AND THE GiTA 781 


Teligion, I shall now briefly explain what inferences can be 
•drawn about the date of this original Gita, Although the time 
of Sri Krsna and of the Bharati war may be tlie same, that is 
to say, aliout 1400 years before the Ohristian era. yet, it cannot 
be said that the original Gita and the original Bharata, which 
are the two inancipal treatises d(;aling with the Bhagavata 
religion, were also written at the .same tin e. Whatever 
religious sect may come into existence, literal ire on it does 
not come into existence immediately; and the s-une argument 
applies t(.> the Bharata a,nd to tlie Gita. Thtre is a story 
•recited at the comimmcenient of the present Mahabharata, 
that after the Bharati war was over, Janamtijas^a, the great- 
grandson of the Pane lavas made a sacrifice of (-erpents; that, 
Vaisampayana recited to him for the first time the whole 
•of the Bharata including the Gila; and that, when it had 
been recittsl by Sauti to Saunaka, the Bharata was thereafter 
promuJgated, It, i.s (|uito clear that some piriod of time 
nmst have elapsed between the date wlien the Bharata came 
to be preached by Sauti and other privichers, and the date when 
it acquired its present tangible literary form ; but there is now 
no means ty which to definitely decide what that ])oriud of time 
was. Btill, if one draws tlm conclusion that the aichaic original 
epic-formed Bharata came, to be written within -of 0 years after 
the Bharati war, that will not bo too daring a sun liso ; because, 
Buddhistic treatises wore written in even a shorter period of time 
after tlie death of Buddha. In writing an archaic epic, it is not 
enough to merely describe in it the feats of the p-incipal hero; 
but it is necessary to say whether or not what was done by the 
hero was riglit. Nay, that this is pos.sibly one of the most 
important parts of an archaic epic, appears from other such 
epics, in literatures other than the Banskrit literature. From the 
modern point of view, this justification of the deed.s of the heroes 
must ho made on the yiuro basis of Ethics. Bi t, in ancient 
times, there was no difference between Religion and Ethics; and, 
thoreforo, tlioro was no way in which to make tlii-i justification 
other than from the point of view of Religion ; anci then, as need 
not be said, it was necessary to justify their deeds on the basis 
of that very' Bhagavata religion, which had been promulgated 
,by the heroes in the Bharata, or which was acceptable to them. 



783 


GlTA-Ri^HASYA or KARMA-YOGA 


But another reason for doing so was that, it was not possible to 
fully justify the deeds or prowess of the heroes of theMahabharata 
on the basis of the religious principles of other religious paths, 
as all the other Vedic religious paths, besides the Bhagavata reli¬ 
gion, which were then in vogue, were more or less renunciatory. 
Therefore, it became neco.ssary tt) expound the Enei-gistic Bhaga¬ 
vata religion in the original epic Bharata. This was done in 
the original Gita; and although it might not have been the first 
treatise to categorically expound the original form of the 
Bhagavata religion, yet, it is one of tlio principal books on that 
religion; and there seems t(j be no rea.son why its date should not 
be roughly fixed at about 900 years before Christ. Since the Gita 
is, at any rate, the most important, if not the first treatise on the 
Bhagavata religion, it war. nece.ssary to show that the Desirclcss 
Karma-Yoga promulgated by it was not inconsistent with the 
other religious paths then in vogue, namely, the Karma-kanda,„ 
the Spiritual Knowledge in the Upaaisads, the Saihkhya 
philosophy, the Yoga philosophy dealing with ‘Concentration 
of the Mind’, and the Philosophy of Devotion; and I may 
even say that that was the principal object of this book. Some 
persons raise the doubt that, the systematic sciences of Vedanta 
andMimamsacould not have been dealt with in the original Gita, 
as they came into existence only at a later date; and that, 
therefore, Vedanta must have been subsequently interpolated 
into the Gita. But, although the Bystematic sciences of 
Vedanta and Mimarhsa may have come into existence later on,, 
yet, as has been stated above, the subject-matter dealt with by 
them wa.s very ancient. Therefore, there is no difficulty, from 
the point of view of time, in the way of these subjects having 
appeared in the original Gita. Nevertheless, I do not say that 
no change was made in the original Gita, when the original 
Bharata became the Mahabltarata. Hi.story .shows us that, 
whatever religion is taken, sub-sects come into existence in it in 
course of time, as a re,suit of differences of opinion; and the same 
law applies to the Bhagavata religion. It is clearly stated in; 
the Narayanlyopakhyana itself, that the Bhagavata religion 
was con.sidered by some as four-folded (cahir-vnuha), that is, 
made up of the four aspects of Vasudeva, Samkarsana, 
Pradyumna, and Aniruddha; and that it was considered by 



IV " The BHAGAVATA religion and the GITA 783 


others as three-folded, and by uthers. as fcwo-folded, and by others 
again as single-folded (Ma. Hha. San. 348. 57); and some such 
other differences may also have arisen later (in. At the same 
time, the Spiritual Knowledge contained in the LipanisadiS and the 
Saihkhya philo.sophy were l)eing further developed. Therefore, if 
there was any dis-arrangiMiient in the original Gita, it would 
not have been unnatural, or inconsistent with the purpose of 
the original Gita, for the writer of the new Bharata to see that 
that defect was removed, and that the Bhagavata religion was 
made cojisistent with the growing k nowlodge of ,he Pinda and 
the Bi-ahmanda; and I have, therefore, shown in tie Part ol this 
Appendix headed‘the Gita and the Brahma-Siitras’ above, that 
the present Gita contain,';, on that account, a rtferenco to the 
Brahma-Watra.s. There might also have been other similar 
differences in the original Gita. Still, it was not possible that 
many such changes .should be made in the original Gita. It 
d(.)e;-i not appear tl\at the authority of the Gits was acquired 
by it after tlie date of tbe Mahabliarata. I hava stated above 
that the Bralinia-Sutras themselves have taken the Glt^ as 
authoritative hy using the word ‘.Sturti'. If a material change 
had been made in the (Original Gita, when the original Bharata 
was changed into the Mahabharata, this authoritativeness 
of the Gitii wi.mld certainly have suffered. But instead of that, 
its authority has, on the other hand, increuEed. We iiave, 
therefore, to draw the inference that whatever changes were 
made in the original Gita, they were not material, and that 
the chatrg(;s which were made, were made in .such a way as 
to promote and carry out its original import. It is clear from 
the various Gitas which have been mentioned in the different 
Puranas on the basis of the present Bhagavadgita, that the 
form which it then acquired wa.s a permanent form, and that 
there were no further changes in it. Because, i ' the Gita had 
not become fully authoritative, that is to say, i7iveriable, at least 
some centuries before the date of the most ancient of these 
Pnraiias, it would not have been j.)o.ssiblo to conceive the idea 
of including ■ other Gitas on the basis cf this Gita 

in those Pufanas. And the attempts made hy various 

doctrine-supporting commentators to stretol the mean¬ 
ings of the words in one and the same Oita in order to show 




784 


gIta-rahasya or karma-yoga 


that the purport of the Gita was consistent with their own 
doctrines, would also in that case not have become necessary. 
A doubt is raised by some scholars that many changes must 
have been made from time to time in the Gita in the present 
Mahabharata, on the ground that the present Gita contains 
many mutually contradictory d(jctrines. But, f have shown 
above that these inconsistencies are not substantial, and that 
this mental confusion is due to people not having properly 
understood the previous and subsequent Vedic methods of 
expounding religion. In short, it will be seen from the above 
exposition that (i) the original Bharata and the original 
Gita, which propounded the original Bhagavata religion, were, 
written about 500 years after the rise of the Bhagavata religion, 
which harmonised the various ancient Vodic aspects of religion, 
and specially supported the Rath of Energism, that is to say, 
about 900 year.s before Christ; that (ii) though, when the Bharata 
was changed into the Mahablrarata, there might have beeii some 
minor improvements in the original Gita, which would be 
promotive cf its purport, yet, the fi.)rm of the original Gita was 
not then substantially changed ; and that (iii) after the prejient 
Gita had been included in the present Mahabharata, there was 
no subsequent cliange in it, nor was it possible that any such 
change should take place. The fixing of the form and the 
date of the original Gita and the t.triginal Bharata have been 
made by me approximately and iii a liberal way, because that 
amount of information which would bo necessary for fixing those 
matters definitely is not now available. But, the same is not 
the case with the present Mahabharata and the present Gita ; 
and there are ways available for fixing their respective dates. 
I have, therefore, discussed that matter separately in the next 
part of this Appendix. My readers must, however, bear it in 
mind that the present Gita and the present Mahabharata, that 
is to say, the forms in which the Gita and the Mahabharata are 
now found by us, after changes have taken place in their 
resi)ective forms in course of time, are not the original forms 
of those respective books. 





V - THE DATE OF THE PRESENT GiTA 


785. 


PART Y—THE DATE OF THE PRESENT GITA, 

1 have proved al>ove in a general way that the Bhagavadgita. 
is the mo8t important work dealing with the Bhajj avata religion; 
that this Bhagavata religion came into existence about 1400' 
years before Christ; and that the original Gita must have 
come into existence some conturici', after that; ind I have also 
said that though the original Bhagavata religion favoured 
Desireless Action, it gradually asHiuncd a Devotional form, and 
ultimately came to include the princiirles of (J;ialified-Monism 
{viiiRtadvdita). More information about the original Gita or 
the original Bhagavata religion is not availabh, at least at the 
present cay ; and the same was the case with the present 
Mahahharata and the present Gita about 50 yeass ago. But, as 
a result of the efforts of Dr, Bhandurkar, the late Mr. Kashinath- 
pant Telang, the late Mr. Shankar Balkrishnx Dikshit, and 
Rao Bah.idur Chintamanrao Vaidya, many pr.)ofs have now 
become available for fixing the dat.'. of the pre.se it Bharata and 
the present (Rta; and very vocciitly, the laio Mr. Tryambak 
Gurunatb. Kale hav. al;;o addneed .sojno more i)roof,s. Thi.s part 
of the Appendix lias lieeii briefly made up hy me by putting 
together all tliese matters and adding to them whatever 
addition was neces.sary in my opinion. In the beginning of 
this Appendix I have shown with proofs that the present 
Mahahharata and the present Gita must have been written by 
one and the same band. When those two treatires are accepted 
as being written by the same band, and therefore necessarily 
contemporani3ou.s, one can easily fix the date of the Gita by 
fixing the date of the Mahahharata. 1 have, therefore, in this 
part of file Appendix mentioned first the va nous important 
proofs which are now available for fixing the date of the present 
Mahabhiirata, and then shown independently those proofs, which 
are useful for fixing the date of the present Gita. I have 
followed this course in order that the fixing of i.he date of the 
Gita should not suffer, if some one find.s the proofs adduced by 
me for fi.xing the date of the Mahahharata not suSiciently 
definite. 

THE FIXING OF THE DATE OF THE M VHABHARATA— 
The Maliahharata i.s an extremely extensive work; and it 
is stated in that book itself, that it consists of one hundred 



786 


GiTA-RAHASYA OR KARMA-YOGA 


thousand stanzas. But Rao Bahadur Vaidya has shown 
in the first Appendix to his criticism in English on the 
Maliabharata, that tho present edition of the Mahabharata 
cunsi.sts of less than that iiuniber of stanzas, and that we do not 
arrive at that total, even by adding the Harivarhsa to it, ■*' 
Nevertheless, there is no reason for not accepting the poaition 
that the larger book, which came into existence when the 
Bharata became the Mahaldiarata, must have been more or less 
the same a.s tho present edition of the Mahabharata, 1 have 
.stated above that thin Mahabharata makes a mention of the 
Nirukta of Yaska and of Manu-Sarnhita, and that the Gita even 
mentions the Brahina-Sutras. Tho other proofs which are avail¬ 
able for fixing the date of the Mahabharata are as follows 

(1) Thi.s book of eighteen pnraiH and the Harivarhsa, found 
their way into tho Java and Bali Islands, before Saka 400 to 
500; and it has been translated into the ancient language of 
those places known a;.; ‘ Kavi ’; and the following eight par’vas 
■of that translation, namely, the Adi, Virata, Udyoga, Bhisma, 
Asramavasi, Mirsala, Prasthanika, and Svargarohana parvas 
are now available; and some of them have been printed. But, 
although the traaslation has been made into the Kavi language, 
the original Sanskrit stanzas from the Mahabharata have 
been retained in many places, T have considered some of the 
stanzas from the (Jdyogaparva. All these stanzas can be found 
here and there in the chapters of the Udyogaparva of the 
Calcutta edition of the present MahM)h3rata, This prove.s that 
the Mahabharata of a hundred thousand stanzas had become 
authoritative in India at least 300 year.s before Saka 400; 
because, it would otherwise not have been necessary at all 
to take it into the Java and Bali Island.s. The Mahabharata 
has also been translated into the Tibetan language, but, that is 
later in point of time than thi.s. t 

*■ “ The 3TahTibharala, n Criticism ” p. 185. Wherever this 
critioiBm of Rao Bahadur Vaidya on the Mahabharata has been 
referred to, this book is meant. 

i See the reference to the Mahabharata of tho Java Island at 
pp. 32-38 of the issue of the Modern Review for July 1914. A 
reference to the .Mahabharata in tho Tibetan language has been 
made in Rockhill's Life of the Buddha, p. 228, Note I. 



V - The date of the PRESENT GETA 


787 


{i) There is now available a stone inscription of the 
Gupta kings made in Oudi Samv.it 197, that is to say, the 
367th yoai of tlio Saka era, which contains a clear reference 
that the Mahabharata was a book of a hundrod th'nisand verses; 
and this reference clearly proves that the Ma,h:bharata must 
have been in cxisLonce at least 100 to 200 years before 
Saka 367. " 

(3) Many of tlu! dramas of Bha.sa, which have now been 
published, have been written on the ba.sis of corijain chapters of 
the Mahilliharata. It, thorefuro, follows that the Mahabharata 
wa.s then a'.'ailahle and was louk.jd upon as authoritative. The 
dranui, Bai/K'niitu of llhasa contains a rcferenco to the incidents 
of the ,vout 1 (jf Sri Kn:^na anti to (l()j)is. Therefore, we have to 
say that the ll.arivaiib;a nuist also then have been in existence. 
There as lu douht that Bbasa lived before Kalidasa. Tanjore 
Ganapati Sbastri, who lias edited the dramas of Bhiaa, has .stated 
in his preface to the drama Si}apii(iv'{isa.va<l<iird that .Bhasa lived 
oven before Canakya; becanse, a stanza fuiiiid in the dramas of 
Bhasa, is t‘. be found in the .Artha-Sii.^itra of Canakya; and it is 
■clearly stated in that place tliat that stanza is a quotation. 
But although this period of time i.s not definite, yit, Bhasa can 
certainly isit be placed ill niy opinion later than he second or 
third century A. 1). 

(4) It is established from Buddhistic treaoise.s, that a 
Buddhist poet named Asvaghosa lived at the beginning of the 
Salivahana era. Thi.s Asvaghosa wrote two epics in Sanskrit on 
the Buddhistic religion, called HtuUtliiUdriUi and Si'.wiuluranunda- 
In both these epic.s, storie.s from the Bharata have been referred 
to. There is beside;; a book in the shape of a lecture on the 
Vairasucikcjpaiiisad wfiich is attributed to Asvaghoia; or it may 
even be said that this Vajra.siici Upaiiisad was written by him. 
Prof. Webber published this liook in Germany in 1860, and it 
■ contains the stanzas “ mptavuudliU <l(dUniesii,” etc. from the 
Sraddha-Mahatmya, in the Harivaihsa (Hari. 24. 20 and 21); and 
some other stanzas from the Malialiharata itself (such as, Ma. 

* This stone inscription has been fully reproi.uced. at page 
134 of the tliird part of the book called Inscriptionum hidicarum, and 
it has been referred to by the hite Mr. Shanker Balk lshna Dikshit 
in his Bhdranya Jyotih-HTistra at page 108. 




788 


GITA-RAHASYA OR KARMA-YOGA 


Bha. San. 261. 17). Thi.s clearly proves that the present 
Mahabharata of a hundred thousand stanzas including the 
Harivamsa was in exi.stence before the commencement of the 
Saka era. 

(5) The Bharata and the Mahabharata have been inde¬ 
pendently referred to in the Asvalayana-Grhya-Sutra (3. 4. 4), 
and a stanza from the Yayati ITpakhyana of the Mahabharata 
( Ma. Bha. A. 78. 10 ) appeair. in one place in the Baudhayana- 
Dharnia-Sutra (2. 2. 26). Biihler says that this one stanza is 
not sufficient proof for saying that the Mahabharata existed 
before Baudhayana' ; but this objection is groundless, because 
the Grhyasesa-Sutra of Baudhayana contains a reference to the 
Yianu-Saha.sranaina (Bau. Gr. Sc. 1. 22. 8); and farther on, in the 
same Sutra (2. 22. 9), the stanza “palrai'n pnspavi pfudam foyam” 
etc. from the Gita (Gi. 9. 26) has been mentioned. These 
references in the Baudhayana-Siitra were first pointed out by the 
late Mr. Tryambak Gurunath Kalef; and they prove that the 
objection raised by Prof. Biihler is groundless, and that both 
Asvalayana and Baudhayana wore conversant with the 
Mahabharata. Biihler has established on other evidence that 
Baudhayana must have lived about 400 year,s before Christ. 

(6) Where the incarnations of Visnu, have been mentioned 
in the Mahabharata itself, there is no reference to Buddha; and 
where the ten incarnations are mentioned in the Narayanlyo- 
pakhyana (Ma. Bha. San. 339. 100), the Haihsa is taken as the 
first incarnation, and Kalki is placed immediately after Krsna 
to make up the total of ten. Yet, where the future .state of the 
Kali-Yuga is referred to in the Vanaparva, it is stated that;— 
“edukacinhU prildvi na devayrlia-bhusita", i. e., “on the earth, 
there will be 'eduka instead of temples of gods” (Ma, Bha. 
Yana. 190. 68). An e(^Ti,ka is a pillar, tower, and other edifice, 
erected as a memorial over some buried hair, tooth etc. of 
Buddha; and it is now-a-days known as ‘dagoba. 'dagohd' is a 
corruption from the Sanskrit word ‘dhUla-garhhd (in Pali, ddgahn), 

* Sacred Booka of the East. Vol, XIV. Intro, p. xli. 

t The whole of the esaay of the late Mr. Tryambak Gurunath Kale 
has been published in The Vedic Mayazine and Gurukul Samaehar 
Yol. Yll Nos. 6, 7, pp. 528-532. There the name of the writer is 
wrongly mentioned as ‘Prof. Kale’. 





V - The date OE the PRESENT GiTA 


789 


and 'dhatu means the ‘memento which is buried’, j n Ceylon and 
in Burma there i.s many a datjr>l,a, in numerous placas. This shows 
that the Mahal»harata must have been written art(r the date of 
Buddha, but liefore he was looked upon as an incarnation. 
The words Buddha’ and ‘Prati'Buddha’ occur in vaj ious places in 
the Mahabharata (San. 194. 58; 307. 47 ; 343. 52). But there the 
words mily mean a Jhanin, a Kiiower, or a Bthitaprajna. That 
word does not seem to have been taken from the Buddhist 
religion; nay, there is good reason for believing that the Buddhists 
themselves have taken Iheso words from the Vedic religi<m. 

(7) In the Mahabharata, the enumeration of constellations 
does not srart with Asvini, but with Krttika. (Ma. Blia. Anu, 64 
and 89); a)ul the zodiacal signs Mesa, Vrsabha, etc. are nowhere 
menticjned,. This is a matter of very great importance from the 
point of view of the date of the Mahabharata; bocausu, one can 
easily draw the inference from this fact that the Mahabharata 
must have lioca written before the zodiacal signs Mesa, Vrsabha 
etc, were known in India as a result of contact with the Greeks,, 
that is to say, befoi-e the date of Aloxandei. But a still 
more important fact is the enunujratiun of the constellations 
starting -vith. Sravarui. It i,s stated in the Anugita that 
Visvamitr.i started the enumeration of the constellations with 
Sravana ( Ma. Bha. Asva. 44. 2, and Adi 71. 34), That has been 
interpreted by commentators as showing that tlie Uttarayaiia 
then started with the Sravana constellation, and no other 
interpretation is proper. At the date of the Vt danga-Jyotisa, 
the Uttanlyana used to start with the Sun in the Dhanistha 
constellation. According to astronomical calculations, the date 
when the Uttarayana should start with the Sun in the 
Dhanistha constellation comes to about 1500 ys ars before the 
Saka era; aTid according to astronomical calculations, it takes 
about a thousand years for the Uttarayaiia to start one 
constellation earlier. According to this calculition, the date 
when the Uttarayana ought to start with the Sun in the Sravana 
constellation comes to about 500 years before the Saka era. 
’therefore, it can lie proved mathematically that t’ne present 
Mahabbaiata must have been written alxmt 500 years before 
the Saka era. The late Mr. Shankar Balkrishiia Dikshit has 
drawn tlte same conclusion in his Bharatiya Jyotih-Sa.stra. 




790 


GiTA-RAHASYA OR KARMA-YOGA 


(Bha. Jyo, pp. 87“90, 111 and 147). The important feature of this 
evidence is that the date of the present Mahabharata cannot be 
taken to much more than 500 years before the Saka era. 

(8) Rao Bahadur Vaidya has in his criticism in English on 
the Mahabharata shown that the Greek ambassador named 
Megasthenes, at the Court of Chandragupta (320 B. C,), knew 
some of the stories in the Mahabharata. The works of 
Megasthenes are not now available in their entirety. But 
extracts made from them ))y other persons have been collected 
together, and were fir.st published in German; and they have 
been tran,slated into English by M’Crindle. It is stated in this 
book, (pp, 200-205), that the Heracles mentioned by Megasthenes 
was none but Sri Krsna; and that at the date of Megasthenes, this 
Sri Krsna, used to be worshipped by the Sauraseni ]ieo]ile, and 
that these Sauraseni people used to live in Muttra. '’'■ It is 
also stated there that Heracle,s was the fifteenth in lino of 
de.scent from Uionisus; and there is a statement even in the 
Mahabharata ( Ma, Bha. .Anu. 147. 25-33 ) that Sri Krsiia was 
fifteenth in line of de.scent from Daksa Prajapati. Also the 
de.soriptions given by Megasthene.s (p, 94) of the karna-pravarmia, 
ekapada (one-footed—Trans.), lalatdkm (cyclops, with one eye 

* See M’Crindlo's Ancient India—Megasthenes and Arrian pp. 200- 
205. This statement of Megasthenes lias been fortified in a very 
curious way by a recent discovery. The Progress Report of the 
Archaeological Department of the Bombay Government for the year 
1914 has been recently publishod. It reproduces the inscription on 
a garudadhvaja ( eagle monolith ) known ns ‘ Khambababa ’ at 
Besanagnr near BhilsIL in the Gwalior State In that inscription it 
is stilted that n Greek or yivana named Heliodonis who had been 
converted to Hinduism, had constructed a temple to Vasudova in 
front of that monolith ; and that this Heliodorus was the ambassador 
sent by the Greek king Antiocledes who ruled at Taksasila, to the 
Court of the king Bhagabhadra ruling at Bhilsa. It has now been 
established from the coins of the king Antiocledes, that he was 
ruling in 140 B. 0. This, therefore, clearly establishes not only 
that the worship of Vasudeva was already in vogue at this time, but 
also that yavanas had started building temples to Vasudeva. 1 have 
stated above that not only Megasthenes, but also Papini knew of the 
worship of Vasudeva. 






A" - The date of the PRESENT Gi!TA 


791 


only in the forehead—Trans.) and other strange ])eopIe, and of 
aTn.X.% (pipiliM ) who bring up gold are also to ha found in the 
Mahabharata (Ma. Bha, Sabha. 51 and 53). Those and other 
facts clearly prove that not only the Mahabharatij hut also the 
history of Sri Krsna and the worship of Sri Krstia were in vogue 
already at the date of Megasthenes. 

Wlien it is remembered that all the proofs mentioned above 
are not nuitually inter-dependent but are indepeiuhnt, it becoine.s 
clear beyond doubt that the present M'ababharata ^\ afl ill vogue at 
least aliout 500 years before the Saka era. ft is ((uitti likely that 
some stanzas have been interpolated into or deleted from the 
Mahabharata after that date. But we are now dijaling with tins 
question not of any particular .stanza.s but of the pidncipal book 
itself; and it is quite clear that this book mu4 have been 
written at least 500 years before the Saka era. 1 have ;h(,)wn 
at the (joininencenient of this Appendix that the Gita is a part 
of the Mahabharata, and has not been interpolated into it 
subsequently; therefore, the Gita must be consilered to he of 
the same date. The original Gita may have been earlier 
than this; because, as has been shown in the .'ourth part of 
this Appendix, the tradition of th(! original G ta ha.s to be 
taken mucli further back. But, wliatever may be said, it is 
absolutely clear that its date cannot bo placad ifter the date 
of the Mahabliarata. This fact is established not merely by 
the eviden(;e mentioned above; tor, there is also independent 
evidence about it, which I shall now place before n y readers. 

THE F[X.rNG OF THE DATE OF THE GITA —The evidence 
mentioned above docs not contain a clear reference by name 
to the Gica. Its date has been fixed there by reference 
to the Mahabharata. I shall now sot out the e\ idence which 
contains a clear reference to the Gita. But before I do so, it 
must Ite mentioned that the late Mr. Telang has fixed the date of 
the Gita as being before Apastaihba, that is to say, at least 
300 years before Christ; and Dr. Bhandarkar has in his book 
in English named Viumavi!^m, Sum'sm, and other 'lects accepted 
the same opinion. * Prof. Garbe is of the opinion that the date 

* Hee Tekmg’s Bhagavailgitci^ fc). B. E. Vol. VII [ Intro pp. 21 
and 34 ; Dr. Bhandarkar’s Veninavism, flaivism, ami other sccU, p. 13 ; 
Dr. Garbo’s Die Bhagavadtjiki p. 64. 






792 


GITA-RAHASY4 OR KARMA-YOGA 


fixed by Mr. Telang is not correct, and that the original Gita 
must have been written about 200 years before Christ, and 
that it was revised in the second century after Christ. But it 
will be seen that the opinion of Dr. Garbe is incorrect for 
the following reasons 

(1) The Sarhkarabhasya i.s the most ancient among the 
critieisin,s and commentaries on the Gita which are now avail¬ 
able. Sri Sarhkaracarya has also written a commentary on 
the Sanatsiijatiya chapter of the Mahabharata; and he has 
in many places in his work.s taken the statements from the 
Anugita, the Manu-Brha.spati conversation, and the Sukanuprasna 
in the Mahabharata as authoritative. It is, therefore, clear 
that in his times, the Mahabharata and the Gita used to be 
looked upon as authoritative, 'fhe birth of Sri Samkaracarya 
is fixed at Saka 710 on the authority of a sectarian stanza, 
as has been proved by Prof. Kashinath Bapu Phatak. But 
in my opinion this date must be taken back by another hundred 
years; because, it is stated in the book named Darsam-Prakasa, 
which belongs to the Mahajiubhava sect, that Sri Samkaracarya 
entered the cave in the year “ ijiigmi payodhi rasunvita sake”, 
that is, in Saka 642 *; and at that time, the Acarya was only 
152 year.s old. Therefore, the date of his birtli is proved to be 
Saka 610. In my opinion, this date is more correct than the 
date fixed by Prof. Plratak. But 1 cannot deal with that question 
in detail here. In the Samkaralthasya on the Gita, many 
previous commentators are referred to: axid Samkaracarya has 
in the very beginning of that commentary stated that he has 
refuted the opinions of all the previous commentator.s and 
written a new comnrentary on the Gita. Therefore, whether one 
takes the date of the birth of the Acarya a,s Saka 610 or Saka 710, 
the Gita must undoubtedly have boon in vogue at least 200 to 
200 years before that time. I,et u.s now see in what way and 
to what extent wo can go further back than that date, for fixing 
the date of the Gita. 

* This is a peeiilinr Sanskrit way of describing dates ; yugma 
means ; payodAi means‘ocean’, of which there were believed to 
be and rnsfj means‘taste’, of which there are six kinds ; and 
those digits are to be read from right to left; thus we get the Saka 
year 642—Trans. 





V - The date of the PRESENT GITA 


793 


(3) Tt 0 late Mr. Tekmg has shown that Kalidasa and 
Binabhatta both knew of the Gita. The stanza “ (imvaptam 
■avaplarydfn mi te, kunami vidijute” in the Visni-Stuti in the 
Raghnvamsa (10. 31) of Kalidasa, is .similar ro the stanza 
" nan avapliitn iivdp/itvyaih” etv.., in the Gita (Gi. 5. 33); and in 
the paranoniastic; ( slcsd-pniilhriiui ) sentence * 'nahahharatam 
ivanavta (pta kanuni. (iminiHInltirnm” in the Kadambari of 
Banabhatta., there i.s a clear reference to the G’ ta. Kalidasa 
and Bharavi are clearly referred to in a stone inscription 
•dated Saka 556; and it is now definitely pro\ed, as shown 
by the lain Mr. Pandurang Govind Hhastri Parakhi, in his 
essay in M irathi on Banabhatta, that Banabhatta was in the 
service of the king Sri ffarsa, in about Saka 528. 

(3) In the Bhisma-parva of tlie MahMiharata, which has 
found its 'vay into Java, there is a chapter called the ‘ Gita ’; 
.and in it, m'c find word for word 100 to 125 stanzas from various 
chapters in the Gita. But there are no stanzas in it from the 
13th, 15th, 16th, and 17th chapters. Yet, there is no objection, 
on that account, to saying that the Gita was then as in its 
present form; beeaiwe, tlie Gita has been tran,slated there 
into the K,ivi language, and the Ban,skrit stanzis found in it 
are taken by way of extracts or illustrations hare and there. 
Therefore, it would not bo proper to draw the ccnclusion that 
the Gita then contained only as many stanzas as are found 
in this translation. Dr. Narhar Gopal Sardesai got this infor¬ 
mation in Java when ho went there; and he has published it 
in the i.'i'aie (•! the Modern lieriew for July 1914 as also in 
th.; Maga'/ino called Cliilnimnjti Jngid. It is clear from this, 
that the Bhisiuaparva of the Mahabharata conti.ined the Gita 
at loasL 300 yc,(ars before Saka 400 to 500, and tl at the stanzas 
in it were ;n the same sequence as in the present Gita. 

(4) In the first chapter of this book, I hare given some 
information about the references to the Gita or the other 
‘Gitas written on the basis of the Bhagavadgita, which 
are found in the Visnu-Puraua, tlie Padma-Pnrana etc. In 
order that the Gita should have boon adopted in this way, 
it must have bec,omo authoritative and an object of 
raiipect e^■an in those days. It is clear that nobody would 
-otherwise think of imitating it. It is, therefore, also clear that 



794 


GiTA-RAHASYA OB KARMA-YOGA 


the Gita must be at least 100 to 200 years earlier in point of 
time than the earliest of these Puranas. One cannot take the 
commencement of the age of the Puranas at later than the 
second century A, D,; and therefore, the date of the Gita is 
taken back at any rate to somewhere about the beginning of the 
Saka era. 

(5) It has been stated above that both Kalidasa and Bana- 
knew about the Gita, The dramas of Bhasa, who lived before 
Kalida,sa, have been recently published. In the drama called 
Karmihhara, out of these dramas, we find the following as the 
twelfth stanza 

hito 'pi luhhdte smniaih jitva hi labhdle yasah \ 

ubhe hahumute loke naafi nispluiUda r(me n 

This stanza is exactly the same as the stanza; “hatovu 
prapsynsi ^iarqam ” etc. (Gl. 2. 37); and, as it is proved from the 
other dramas of Bhasa that he wu.s fully acquainted with the 
Mahabharata, one can safely draw the conclusion that in 
writing the stanza mentioned above, he had in mind the stanza 
in the Gita referred to above. It, therefore, follows that the 
Mahabharata and the Gita exi.sted b.eforo the date of Bhasa. 
Pandit Ganapati Shastri has proved that Bhasa mir.st liave lived 
200 to 300 years before the Saka era. But, some are of the opinion 
that he lived 100 to 200 years after the Saka era. Even if this 
latter opinion is correct, the Mahabharata and the Gita must have 
become commonly accepted books at least 100 to 200 years 
before the date of Bhasa, that i.s to say, about the beginning of 
the Saka ora. 

(6) But, the late Mr. Tryambak Gurunath Kale has 
published in the English magazine issued by the Gnrukul and 
called the Vedic Mnyiraiie, a forcible proof about old writers 
having adopted stanza,s from the Gita (Vol. 7, Eos. 6 and 
7 pp. 528-532, Margasirsa and Pausa Samvat 1970). Before 
this publication, Western Samskritists were of opinion that the 
Gita wars not found referred to in any books more ancient than 
the Sanskrit dramas or the Purana.s, e. g., in the Sutra treatises 
etc.; and that therefore, the Gita must have been written 
shortly after the age of the Sutras, that i.s to say, in about 
the second century of the Christian era. But the late Mr. Kale 




- The date of the PRESENT GITA 


795 


has shown that this surmise is wrong. In the Baudhayana- 
Grhyasesa-SiitTa (2.22.9), the stanza, “/>a/raw< mifipam" etc. 
iGi. 9. 26) has been taken ix^rlxiliiii with the opnhng remark 
^'tdduhi bluif/ar/in' in the following words:— 

itesah/iih d dravijUbhuve tiUdhunnu’ L/i.rijuv ma lasU vurcayed 
ih I tudaha blunjai an — 

jKitniVi imspani phulai'n loyam i/o nw bluddyu yrayacchati I 
lad ahull', bhakly npahrbun asiidini /miijalahiuinah II ifi ; 

and it is stated further on, that one should become meek-minded 
by Devotion and then recite thc.sc! incantations, cf. ‘hhaldimiiiimh 
etUn infiidrihi tidluiiiki'; -and it is stated at the cn.l of the third 
prasna of this Grhyasosa-Kiitra.. tliut by rccitinf; the twelve- 
lettered incantation "am lumia bliaijarala rdst.devUya", one 
acquired the same merit a:-! that of jxuTorming ai Asvamedha- 
Yajha. From this it i;k clear that the Gita, as a ho the worship 
of Vasude\-a, was fully iii vogue before the date of Baudha- 
yana. Besides this, there is tlic following sei tence in the 
Pitrmodha-Sutra of Baudhelyana, in the beginning of the third 
praim, namely, 

jnlaiaju rai inuuuf^yasya dlinirain munirtuvi Hi rijaniyal 
tamidlj jide wi jirahryyiai inria vu nu l indPt I , 

which can clearly be seen to have been inspired by the following 
stanza in the Gita 

jdlasya hi dhrii.iX) iiiTlyuh dhrnram jamna iiiTlaxya ca I 
bisniddaparihurye ’rlha mi Iraht sixilniu arJtasi II 

(Gi. 2.27); 

and when, in addition to this, you take the stanza " patram 
puspam ” etc., there remains no doubt whatsoever about the 
matter. It, has been stated above that we find in the 
Baudhayana-SCitra, one stanza from the Mahabnarata itself. 
The date of Baudhayana is about 100 to 200 years before 
Apastaraba; and Prof. Biihler has come to the conclusion 
that the date of Apastarhba cannot be more then 300 years 
before Christ. * But, in my oninion, that date must be taken 

* Soo Sacred Books of the .East Serios, Vol. II. Intro, p. xliii ; 
and also the same Scries Vol. XIV. Intro, p. xliii. 

oq_q/( 



796 


GITA-RAHASYA OR KARMA-YOGA 


slightly forward; because, there is no mention in the Maha- 
bharata of the zodiacal sigirs Mesa, Vrsabha etc.; and the sentence 
“ niiniDiLmiijor }iv‘-H:wTSahhniior va vnmntah" of Baudhayana has 
been quoted in the Kala-Madhmn., and has also been taken 
in the Bhmali!ia~Ju<dih-idd)ilra (p, 102) written by the late 
Shankar Balkrishna Dikshit. From this also, one can draw the 
•dafinita inference.s, that the Mahabharata is earlier in point 
of time than Baudhayana; that Baudhayana lived at least 
400 years before the Saka era; and that the Mahabharata and 
the Gita were written at least 500 yoar.s before the Saka era- 
The late Mr. Kale ha.s placed the date of Baudhayana at 700 to 
■800 yoar.s before Christ, but that is not correct. He has 
evidently lost sight of the statement of Baudhayana regarding 
the zodiacal signs. 

(7) It will be clearly seen by anybody from the above 
evidence that the present Gita was in existence at lea,st 500 yeans 
before the Saka era; that it was known both to Baudhayana 
and Asvalayana; and that oTie can trace the gradual history 
of it uninterruptedly right down to the date of Sri Sathkarac5rya. 
But all thi,s evidence is from Vedic religious treatises; the 
evidence which I am now going to mention is from literature 
other than Vedic literature, that is to say, from Buddhistic 
literature; and the above-mentioned aiicientnes.s of the Gita is 
more forcibly and indepandontly e,'-itablishod, in an unambi¬ 
guous way, by that evidence. I have stated above the opinions 
<.)t' Buhler and of the celebrated French scholar Senart that the 
Bhagavata religion ^had come into existence before Buddhism ; 
and I have dealt with the que;stion of the growth of Buddhism 
and of its relation to the Hindu religion etc., independently, in 
the next part of this Appendix. I am giving hero in short only 
f'.nch reference.s as are necessary for fixing the date of the 
Gita. I rom the sole fact that the Bhagavata religion was 
previoirs to Buddhism, one cannot draw the definite conclusion 
that the Gita was also prior in point of time to Buddha; because, 
there is no definite evidence for saying that the Bhagavata 
religion came into cxistonca simultaneously with the Gita. 
It is, therefore, necessary to see whether or not Buddhist 
writers refer anywhere specifically to the Gita. It is clearly 
stated even in the ancient Buddhistic treati.ses, that the four 



V - The date of the DRESENT (ETA 


797 


Vedas, thi; Vedahgas, tlio Vyakaratui, Astvonomy, Itihasa, 
.Nighaiitu .3,nd other hooks rolating to the Vedic religion existed 
at the time of Buddlia, There is, therefore, no doubt that the 
Vedic religion had reached its parfoction before the date of 
Buddhii. A-ithoagh the new religions sect which was formed 
after that date by Buddha, was, from the Motap lysical point 
of view, nn Atinic (d(!nying the existence of the At nan—Trans.), 
yot, from the point of view of conduct in life, it followed the 
Path of Rimmiciatioii preached in the IJpanisac.s, as will be 
shown in tiie in^xt part. Hut at the date of Aso ca, this state 
of Rnddhisin tiad changed and Buddhist incndicarTs had given 
lip living in );he woods, and are seen to have gone as far as 
Cihina towards the ICast, and as far as Alexandria and Greece 
towards the West, for the jiropagaiion of religion, and on 
other pliilauthropic ini.ssions. Wliy Buddhist me idicants gave 
up living in tlie woods and started doing philanihropic wiirks 
is a question of iminensi; imtiortaiice in tlio liistory of Buddhism. 
]’f one considers the ancient. Buddhistic treatises, it is stated 
in the Kbaggavisana-Sutta in tlu; Sutta-nipA-a that the 
''blukm’ (mendicant), wlio reached the state .)f an arhata 
■(.Perfect) .s.nonJd live in the woods like a rhinoceros, without 
doing anytiiing; and it is stated in the Mahavagga (5. 1. 27) 
in the story of Si.nuikolivisa, the personal disciple of Buddha 
'that: “for ttie mendicant who has reached the state of 
nirvana (Anniliilation)—“ kalusna jtalicaijo nalthi. .lara^iijam na 
evy/a/i nothing remains to be done, and notliing of what 
has been done remains to be siilferod for”. This is Pure 
.liennneiation, similar to the Path of Renunci ition of our 
IJpanisads, Rot only is the sentence “ kanmii/a’t t na vijjaU” 
similar in meaning to tlie words taxija knrt/ai'n na rldijafe” 
‘in the Gita, but it is word for word the s.ame. Bi t when this 
original renunciatory mode of life of Buddhist mendi¬ 
cants changed, and they began to perform ohilanthropic 
works, thorci arose a conflict between the old the ught and the 
new thouglit, .iiid those who belonged to the former liogan to call 
themselves 'Ihi'rarCnhi (older sect), and the new school of thought 
called their sect ‘mahaijdnii (superior path) and began to refer 
■to the older sect as 'hhi/ii/dtvi (inferior path). Asvaghosa 
■belonged to the Mahilyana sect, and was of the opinion tliat 



798 


GlTA-RAHASYA OR KARMA-YOGA 


Buddhist yatins should take part in philanthropic works. 
Therefore, in the advice which Buddha is shown to have given i 
to Nanda, at the end of the poem Bfi/widard/ia/ido, when Nanda 
had reached the state of an tuimta, he first says:—■ 

avuptakuryo ’si panmi gatini gakih 
na te 'sti kimcif karamyam arivapi I 

(Sau. 18. 54) 

that is, “your duty in life is over, you have acquired the 
highest state; now there does not remain for you even the lea.st. 
duty (of your own)”. And thou, he goes on to say ;—■ 

vihayd l(mnU(i iha kilri/diu ahiKinah 

kiiru sthirahiKdt pH^rakarydni apy dlho i 

(bau. 18. 57) 

that is, “ therefore, give up Action for yourself, but become- 
perfectly equable in Reason, and perform Action for others”; 
There is a world of difference between the preaching of Buddha 
in the ancient book.s, which advocated Abandonment of Action, 
and the words put by Asvaghosa into the mouth of Buddha in 
the Saumkd-Uiumdfi.-karya; and it will be .seen that thi.s argument 
of Asvaghosa, is similar not only in moaning but also literally 
and word for word to what is stated in the third chapter of the 
Gita, namely, “fasya kfiryam im ridyalr” (i, e„ “for him no duty 
(for his own benefit) has remained”—Trans.)... and‘V«.satdd asakfdh 
sulatain kuryn'fu karma Sdmacaixi”, i. e., “therefore, perform 
desirolessly that duty which has befallen you” (Gl. 3. 17, 19).. 
From this, one can draw the inference that this argument has been 
borrowed by Asvaghosa from the Gita; because, as has been shown 
above, the Mahabharata existed before Asvaghosa. But this fact 
does not remain only in inference. It is stated in the book called 
Tdrunatha, which is a history of Buddhism written in the 
Tibetan language, that the “Jnanin Sri Krsna and Ganesa” were 
responsible for Rahulabhadra, the preceptor of Nagarjuna, who - 
was the principal protagonist of the Mahayana sect, getting the 
idea of this Activistic improvement in the original renunciatory 
path of the Buddhists. This book (Taranathu) was translated 
into German from the Russian, but not into English. Ihave^ 




V - The date of the PRESENT GITA 


799 


'taken an i?xtr;ict from it (7’(7/-(7«f7^/irz) from the bonk written by 
Dr, Kern in 1896 on tiie Buddhist religion, * Tven Dr, Kern 
is of opinion that there is a reference to the Bhagavadgita, 
by the word ' Sri Ki-'^na 'I'hero are some stanzat in the book 
named StKiiUiiinnit-J’niitpirlkii out of the Buddhist religious 
treati.ses ol th(' Mahayazia sertt, which are quite s-imilar to the 
stanzas in tim Bhagavadgita, But, this and ali other matters 
will he consid('rGd by mo in the next part of tliis Appendix. All 
that L hav; to say at [iresent is that Buddhist writers themselves 
admit that thnugli the original Buddhistic religion advocated 
Asceticism the Bhagavadgita was re,sponsible f ir the coining 
into existence of Llie Mahay ana sect, wlilcli advocated Action and 
Devotion; and tlie similarity shown above between the 
writings of Asvughosa and the (iita only stringthens this 
conclusion. Western scholars have come to the co iclusion that 
Nagarjuna, the lirst promulgator of the Mahayana sect, lived 
too to 1,50 years hefuns the Saka ora ; audit is quite clear that 
the Mahayana doctrine must Itave been initiate.1 during the 
.reign of the king Asoka. Therefore, it is iiroved independently 
fn.iin Huddtiist.ic books and from the histories of Buddhism 
written by Buddhist writers theni.sel ve.s, tliat the IhagavadgltS 
was in existence before ttie rise of the. Mahaysna sect, and 
possibly even hi’fc.iro the date of Asoka—that is, at h a.st 300 years 
before the Christian era. 

When ' iiie considers ali the proofs mentioned above, there 
dues not remain the sliglitest dmilit that llte prose it Bhagavad- 
gtta was iii existence, at least bOO years before the Saka era. 
The opinions of Dr, Bhaiidarkar, the late Mr. 'Pelang, Rao 
Bahadur C; intamanrao Vaidya, and the late Mr. Dik.shit were 
more or le.ss tlie same, and they must he taken i s correct on 
this point. The opinion of I’rof Garhe is dilferent; and he has 
taken the words “ ini.'ifdh'’ -i. c., “in whom Yoga has been 
destroyed”, from the stanzas relating to the tradition of the Gita 
doctrine in the t oiirth chayiter of the Gita, as an authority for his 
opinion; and he has interpreted the word ‘ ijof/a' th n-e to mean 
' Fatanjala-YogaBut 1 have shown above witli authorities 

* See Or. Kern’s Manual of Indian Buddhism^ (irundriss III. 
S, p, 122. Till' principal book of the Mahayan i sect called 
Amitayu-SuU. t was translutod into Ohincse atxmt 148 A . O. 



800 


GITA-RAHASYA OE KARMA-YOGA 


that the word 'yoyo' in this place does not mean ‘Patanjala-Yoga' 
hut means Karma-Yoga. Therefore, the opinion of Prof, Garhe 
is wrong and unacceptable. It, therefore, follows beyond 
doubt that the date of the present Gita must be taken as 
not later than 500 years before the Saka era, I have shown 
in Part IV above that the origi?ial Gita must have been some 
centuries older. 

PART VI—THE Gll'A AND BUDDHISTIC LITERATURE. 

In order to fully realise the importance of the evidence of 
Buddhistic works adduced by nre above for fixing the date of 
the present Gita, it i,s necessary to consider here shortly the 
general similarities and dissimilaritie.s between the Gita on the 
one hand and the Buddhistic treatises or Buddhistic religion, 
on the other hand. I have mentioned above in any Jiuml)er 
of places that the Sthitaprajha of the Gita belongs to Path of 
Energism; and that that is the most important feature of the 
Glta-doctrine. But, if one keeps aside for a moment this special 
feature of the Sthitaprajha, and considers only hi.s inental and 
moral qualities, one sees a very strange similarity between 
the characteriotics of the Sthitaprajha (Gl. 3. 55-73), the Brahma- 
nistha (4. 19-23; 5. 18-28), and the Bhakti-yogin (12. 13-19), 
mentioned in the Gita, and the characteristics mentioned 
in various Buddhistic works of an (trhala who has becc.ime 
fit for Nirvana, that is to say, of a Buddhist yat/'u, who has reached 
the state of ijorfection (Dhammapada stanzas 360-433 and 
Muni-Sutta -and Dhammika-Sutta out of the Sutta-nipata). 
In these desoription.s, we also find similarity of words where, 
like the Sthitaprajha, or the ‘bhuk/iiuan, the true mendicant 
(bJiiksu) is described as being ‘ peaceful ’ (suntu/, ‘ desireles.s ’ 
(niskama), ‘ mine-loss ’ (nirminui), ‘desireless’ {lUrnsl), or {nirissita), 
‘equal in pain or happiness’ (stinuiHluhkhu-sukJui), ‘ non¬ 
commencing ’ {niramnihha), ‘homele.ss’ ( (mikehuui or animsuna ), 
‘equal towards praise or disparagement’ {mina-'iunduHluti), and' 
‘one who considers respect or disrespect, profit or loss, as the 
same’ (See Dhammapada 40, 41 and 91; Sutta-nipata, Muni-sutta 
1. 7 and 14, Dvayatanupassana-sutta 31-33; and Vinaya-pitaka, 
Culla-vagga 7. 4. 7). The idea that what i,s light to the 
Jnanin is darkness to the Ajnanin (Ignorant) conveyed by the 
words “yd niia sarmhhutanUm tasyaiu joydiii samyutni " {Gl. 3. 69) 






V - The DAIE OF THE PRESENT GiTA 


801 


is to bn sent! in. the 40th stanza of the Dvayatam .passana-sutta 
and the wta-ds “(irominei/nd iia ro^teti'' -i. o., “one who is himself 
not worrifiri, and who does not worry othtns”, in the 10th stanza 
of the Muni-sntta, is similar to the desceiption in the Gita in the 
words “i/a.s’ndn lio'drijaff' lako lokun nodrijah’ C(i tjdi” (Gi. 13.15)- 
Similai’ly, wt^ find in the Balla-siilLa, with slight verbal 
differences, the following ideas of the Gita, namely, ‘that which 
has come to birth, is sure to die’, or, ‘in as much as the beginning 
or the end of created things is imperceptible {tii'iial ta), it is futile 
to lament over them’ (Bt.o Salla-sutta, 1 and !); and Gi. 3. 37 and 
38); and the description to be found in the tenth chapter of the 
Gita Eiid in the Amigita {Ma. Bha. Asva. 43, 44) in the words 
“the Sun C'ut of tlie luminari(^s,the Moon out of the 3onstellations, 
Gayatri out of the Vedic incuntations” etc. is re])eited just as it 
is in the Sola-.sutta (31, 33) and Mahavagpa (6,35,8). There 
are bo.side.s numerou.s other similaritie.s of ideas which have 
been shown in the notes a])))en(led by the late Mr, Telang to his 
English translation of ttie Gita. Bui, on account ®f the 
in.suificieiK.y of the means them :ivai]al)l(' for deb rmining how 
these similarities came U) ho, or wdretber these ideas were 
originally from the Buddhistic literature or frem the Vedic 
religious literature, and what inferences can drawn from 

these facts, the late Mr. 'Gdang has not w'ldtten anything in 
this matter beyond mereiy whowdng this strange similarity 
of words and meaning. But much more information 
about the Buddhistic religion has now become ava lable; and as 
these (juestioiifi are solved by that information, I will now 
brielly mention that information about the Budd iistic religion, 
here. The Ifnglish translation of the Gita, made by the late 
Mr. Telang, lias been publisiied in the Sacred Book-; of the East, 
Series. Eo.gli.Gi translations of Buddhistic re]idioms treatise.s 
have lieeii pid^lished further on in the same Series. Thi.s 
information ha.s been principally taken from those translations; 
and the rof(!ronc8s t(.) the.se Buddliisl.ic treatises, as authorities, 
are to ttic translation.'! in this Series; and the Pili words or 
sentences (juotiid in some places have been ta'Cen from the 
original P;ili books. 

The Buddhistic religion is, like the Jain religion, somewhat 
like a son who has separated from his father after taking from 



802 


gIta-rahasya or karma-yoga 


him as much of his wealth as he wanted. Therefore, it is not a 
stranger religion, but is only a branch, which has come into 
existence in India, out of the previous Brahmin religion. This 
position has now been established beyond doubt. In the old 
Pali treatises to be found in Ceylon, such as, the Mahavamsa or 
the Dipavamsa, tluire is a description about the kings who ruled 
after Buddha, as also the historical tradition of the various 
Buddhistic preceptors. Calculating time by reference to these 
books, one conie,s to the conclusion that Gautama Buddha 
reached the age of 80 years and died 543 years before Christ. 
But some of the .stories in the.se books are inconsistent with 
each other. I'lier&fore, Prof. Max Muller has made a critical 
examination of thi.y calculaticm of time, and laid down the 
proposition that the true date of the death of Buddha must 
have been 473 years before the Christian era; and Dr. Biihler 
has shown that the same date is arrived at from the 
stone inscriptions of Asoka. But some critics like 
Prof. Rhys-Davids or Dr. Kern say, that this date must be 
pushed forward by between 65 to 100 years; and Prof. Geiger 
has very recently examined all these opinions, and drawn the 
conclusion that the true date of death of the Buddha must 
have been 483 years before the Christian era.* Whichever 
date is accepted, this much at least is beyond doubt, that the 
Vedic religion had reached its fullest expansion before the 
birth of Buddha; and that, not only the Upanisads but also 
other religious works like the Dharma-Sutras, were in existence 
before that date; because, there are statements in the ancient 
Buddhistic religious treatises in the Pali language, that 
Gautama Buddha had personal discussions and conversations 
with some highly moral Brahmins, and bearded ascetics, who 
were well-versed in "the four Vedas, the Vedahgas, Vyakarana, 


^ Some information about tho date of the death of Gautama 
Buddha will bo found in the Introduction to the English translation 
oi tho Dhammapada made by Prof. Max Miiller (S. B. E. Vol. X, 
Intro, pp. xxxv-xlv) ■ and that matter has been examined by 
Dr, Geiger in his Introduction to the translation of the Mahavamsa, 
published in 1912 (The Mahuvamxa by Dr. Geiger, Pali Text 
Society, Intro, j). xxii et seq,'). 






V - The date of the PRESENT (ilTA 


803 


Astronomy, Itihasa (history), Nighantii (medii'Jne) etc,, and 
had converted them to his own religion. (See the description 
of Selii in the Sela-sntta i.’>ut of the Sutta-nipata and Vaththu- 
gatha SO-45). And just as ritualistic sraiila facrifices have 
been deprecated in the Kal,ha and other Upanis; ds (Katha. 1, 
18; Miinda, 1. '3. 10), or in th(! (lita, coiu.istfcn .ly with those 
Upanisads (i. 40-45;;). 20 and 21), so also, and tor certain extent 
in th(! .same wurd.s, ha,". Buddha pr.tvod in the Tevi,ija-.sutta 
(Traividya-Sutra), that “/ynydr/.s-, ; 7 ('a/a.s-, ode, are ii.soless and 
discardahlo” ; and Ite lia.s exi)laitu‘d how that .Aate, which is 
dof’.crihed hy ■I5r;xhmin.s as, ^ Imihwntiahanjati yu' (brnliina- 
^alyirydlyityn ='hralninh»(i!ji(jyalii) c:i.n, according to him, he 
attained, from this, it is; dear, that the Buddhistic religion 
has come into existence hy hringitig about ar improvement 
in the .wo hranchci of the Brahmin religion, namely, 
the Karma-ka.nda and Jnaiia-kanda—th.at is, the .state of a 
householde r aud the .state oi an a..scet ic, (.)r in other W(.)rd,s, 
Activi '.m ( jinivrtti ) and Itennnciatioii ( iuptIH )■-after tho.se two 
branches liad hecoino fully established. The '.n-cinary rule of 
every reform is that some of thr; fmanor matt; rs remain and 
others change; and let us now consider, according to this rule, 
iwhich things (.mt of the Vedic religion remain in Buddhism and 
which has t) been given up. This (iue.stion must be considered 
from the jjoint of view of the state of the houseliolder and of 
Asceticism, But as Buddhism was originally renunciatory 
or purely lniictivi,stic, wo' will lir.st consider the aspect of 
Renunciation in botli the religions, and then consider the state 
of the householder in both. 

If (jiio consider.s the Vedic Path of R(‘m nciation, the 
principal clement in it, will be seen t(.i be tlu; belief that all the 
activitie,s in the world of Action are jjrodmd.ive c/f Desire, that is 
to say, full of unhapiniiess; and I hat, iri order to enable the 
Atman to jxu-manently escape from it, that is, from the cycle of 
births and deaths, (i) the Mind has to he made desireless and 
renounced, and must be fixed on the eternal Parabrahman in 
the form ol the Atman, which forms the foundation of the entire 
visible univer.se, and (ii) one has to totally aband m the duties 
of family life and remain perpetually steeped in thi.s Atraified 
state. Out of the.se, tlie visible world is de.hned by Name and 




804 


GITA-RAHASYA OR KARMA-YOGA 


Form, and is perishable; and its unobstructed activity’ 
continues as a result of Causality {kdriivi-vipaka). 

kammana valtati Loko lunumimi vaftatl paja ( pniju ) I 
kuinimirdbundliuna saitu {mit:uni,)j-alhatfm 'riivu yayato n 

(Suttani, Vasethasutta, 61). 

that is ; “ the world, as also its inhabitants, continue in life as 
a result of Karma; just as the course of thn moving chariot is 
regulated by its axis, so also is every created being bound by 
Karma”. This principle of the .Tfiana-kanda of the Vedic 
religion, or perhaps even the idea of the cycle of birth and death, 
as also the Vedic deities, Brahma, Indra, Mahesvara, Isvara, 
Yama etc., and their various spheres, such as, miroa, (heaven) 
patUla (antipode.s) etc., descri))ed in the Brahmin religion, were 
accepted by Buddha; and on that account, such technical 
words of Vedanta and Haihkhya philos(.)phy, as ‘ numa-rapa ' 

^karma-vipaka’, 'uvUtya',' tipaduwi’, ‘ prukrll’ etc., as also the tra¬ 
ditions about Brahma and other Vedic deities (maintaining, 
always the superiority of Buddha) arc always to be found with 
some difference or other in Buddhistic literature. But, although 
the doctrines of the Vedic religion, regarding the world of 
Action, that the visible world is perishable and non-permanent, 
and that its activities are going on as a result of Causality, 
were accepted by Buddha, yet, the doctrine of the Vedic religion 
or of the Upanisads, that there Is stuue eternal, all-pervasive, 
element like Parabrahman, which is uniform with the Atman, 
and is undefined by Name and Foi-ni, and which i.s the founda¬ 
tion of the perishable universe defined by hlanie and Form, 
was not accei)ted by Buddha. This is the crircial difference 
between the two religions. Gautama Buddha has clearly said 
(Sabbasava-sutta 9-13), that the Atman or the Bralunaii does 
not exist in reality, but is a mere illusion; and that, therefore, 
no one should waste his time in thinking about the Atman 
and the Kon-Atmari, or on the meditation of the Brahman. 
That Buddha did not admit any theory about the Atman, is 
patent from the Brahniajala-sutta out of the Digghanikaya. * 

The Brahinajala sutta has not boon translated into I'lnglish; 
but a summary of it has been given by Prof. Khys-Davids in the 
Bacred Books of the East Series Vol, XXVI. Intro, pp. xxiii-xxv, 
to which the reader ia referred. 






V “ The date OE the PRESENT (JITA 


805- 


In this sutta after mentioning 6!3 different ideas about the 
Atman, as to whether the Atman and the Brahman are one 
or two, it is stated that they are all illusory ‘visions’ (ilTsti); 
and even in the Milinda-prasna, it is clearly stated by Nagasena 
to the Gceek Milinda (Minander), that according to Buddhism, 
“the Atman is not somctliing which reall,v exists’’ (Mi, 
Pz‘a. d. 3. () and 2. 7, 15). When one accepts the position 
that both the Atman and the Bralnnan are illusions, and not 
real, the very foundation of religion is really speaking de.;- 
tr(iyed; Izecause, in that (;aso, all that ren ains is nizu- 
pernuaient, tilings; and permanent happiness, a.s also some 
one who can realise that iiermanent happines.s, ceases to exist; 
and it; i.s on this acc(.iunt that Sriniad Saihl:aracarya has 
condemned tliat opinion as unacceptable even on logical 
grounds. But, as we have now to considfr o dy what the 
original Buddhistic religion was, we will not e iter into that 
discussion here, hut will sou how Buddlui has further .justified 
his own religii'in. Although Buddha, did not accept tlie existence 
of the Atman, yet, he has. fully accepted the two p(.)sitions that 
(1) as a result of Oausality, the Body which is dof ned by Name 
and B’drin (and not the Atman) has to take birth Ivor and over 
again in this perishable world; and that (i) this cycle of 
re-incarnation or worldl.y life itself, is full of unhappine.ys, and 
it is necessary to ac.quire permanent peace or happiness by 
escaping from it. When in this way, the unhappine.ss of 
worldly life, and the necessity of overcoming ,snc i unhappine.ss 
have been admitted, the Vodic (luestion about the way in which 
that unphappine.ss can bo removed, and how the highest happi¬ 
ness can he reached, still roraaiiis; and it beconio.! necessary to 
give some satisfactory answer to that question. 1’h.o writer,s of 
the Upanisads them,selves have said that one cannot escape the 
Cycle of Worldly Life {hliAmi.-riikr(i) by performing sacrititdal 
ritual; and Buddha has gone even further than tliat, and said 
that all these sacrificial Actions involved dostri ctioii of life, 
and were on that account totally prohibited and unacceptahle. 
Also, if the Brahman itself is considered to bo a stupondoii,« 

‘ Illusion’, then the Knowledge of the Brahman also become '. 
an illusory and impo.ssible path for destroying unhapi)ine,s,s, 
Then, in what way can one escape from this unhi ppy^ Cycle of 



806 


GITA-RAHASYA OB KARMA-YOGA 


'Worldly Life? The reply of Buddha to this question is that 
a good doctor first determines the root cause of any disease, and 
then removes that cause in order to euro the disease, in the 
same way, in order to cure the disease of worldly unhappiness, 
a wise man must (8) understand what the cause of that unhappi¬ 
ness is, and (4) follow that path by which that cause can he 
.totally destroyed. Now, when one considers the question of 
the cau,ye of this unhappiness, one sees that Thirst or Desire 
is the root of all the unhappiness in the world; and that when 
once the Name-d and Form-od Body has been destroyed, other 
Name-d and Forra-ed Bodies come into existence one after the 
other from this seed of Desire, which survives the de.struction 
of the Namc-d and Form-ed body. And Buddha has come to 
the conclmsion that (i) in order to escape the painful cycle of 
birth and death, the path of becoming a Samnyasin or a bhikm, 
after having destroyed Desire by control of the organs, by 
meditation, and by asceticism, becomes the only true path; 
and that (ii) eternal peace and happiness can be reached only 
by this Renunciation based on indifference to worldly life. 
I n short, Buddhism does not attach any importance to sacrificial 
ritual etc., nor to the meditation on the Atman and tne Non- 
Atman ; but rests on the four visible factors, (i) the fact of the 
exi.stence of worldly unhappiness, (ii) the cause of such unhappi¬ 
ness, (iii) the necessity of controlling or removing it, and 
(iv) the means in the shape of Renunciation, for totally doing 
away with it; or, in Buddhistic terminology, on ‘ unhappines.s ’ 
( duhklui ), ‘ origin of unhappiness ’ ( saiimd(i!j(i ), ‘ control of un¬ 
happiness ’ ( nirodki ), and ‘ the path of destroying it ’ ( marr/a) • 
and Buddha has called these four fundamental elements of his 
religion, the ‘Sublime Verities’ (uriju-satija). Although the 
Buddhistic religion is in this way founded on the visible 
foundation of the four ‘Sublime Verities’, instead of on the 
Upanisadic Knowledge of the Atman, yet, as the Path (the 
fourth Verity) preached by Buddha for acquiring eternal peace 
or happiness, namely, the path of making the Mind desireless 
by destroying Thirst or Desire, is the same as the path mentioned 
in the Upanisads for obtaining Release, it becomes quite 
clear that Desirelessness of the Mind is the ultimate visible 
.ideal according to both these religions. But the writers of 




V - The date of the PRESENT (J-ITA 


807 


the Upanisads, who look upon the Brahman as identical 
with the Atman, refer to this Desirelessnest- of the Mind 
as ‘ atinavisthli', 'hruhtiKi-Namslha', 'brahina-bhutatl’, or ^ brahrmt- 
nirvana' (Gl. 5. 17—25; Ohan. 2. 23. 1), that is to say, the 
merging the Atman into the Brahman, all which words 
are denotative! of the Ultimate Root; whereas, Buddha refers 
to that state as merely ‘'/wrvwTO/,’, which means ‘obtaining 
Rest or ' the destruction of Desire in the same way as a lamp 
goes out which definition merely denotes somo Action. This 
is the differerico between the two religious. Beciauso, when you 
say that the Brahman or the Atman is an illusion, the questions 
‘ who acquires the rest V and, ‘ in what does he rest ? ’, do not 
any more remain. ((/,-Ratana-sutta, 14, and V ihgisa-sutta 12 
and 13, out of the Sutta-nipata); and Buddha has clearly said, 
that a wise man sh(juld not waste time in thinking about 
these moot questions (8al>baKavii-Hutta 9-13, and Milinda 
Prasna 4. 2.4 and 5). As tbe;r(! is no re-birth after 
this state has been reached, the word ‘ death w hich is applied 
to the ordinary phenomenon of one body being de.stroyed 
and anotlier body being acquired, c:umot be applied to 'nirimiu ’, 
even acco:rding to Buddhism. ‘ nirrana ' is the ‘ leath of death’, 
or, as is stated in the Upanisads, it is ‘ the patb of overcoming 
death’, and not merely ‘ death’. When any man has rea.ched 
this ,stat(!, he does not any more care for liis b )dy, just as the 
serpent dries not care for the slough which it has thrown away. 
This illustration which has been given in the Brhadaranya- 
kopanisad (4. 4. 7) has been given in each stan/,a in the Uraga- 
sutta in the Sutta-nipata in describing tlie true Buddhist 
mendicanr {hhikm). And, as the Atman is always free from sin a.s 
also from merit (Br. 4. 4. 23), he the bhikm does not, suffer from such 
sins as matricide, patricide etc. This prinoiph of the Vedic 
religion (Kausi. 3. 1) has also been adopted jus; as it is in the 
Dhammapada (Dhamma. 294 and 295, and Milind i-Prasna, 4, 5. 
7). In short, although Buddha did not accept tlie existence of 
the Brahman and of the Atman, yet, as that very )afh which has 
been :nont,ioiii!d in the Upanisads as leading to Release, namely, 
the path of making the Mind peaceful, apathetic, and desireless, 
is also the path for the acquisition of Nirvana according to 
Buddhism, the descriptions of the Buddhist m.ji k and of the 




808 


GITA-RAHASYA or karma-yoga 


Vedic Sarhnyasin are exactly similar to each other from the 
point of view of their mental condition. And, therefore, the 
doctrines regarding the responsibility for sinful or meritorious 
actions, or regarding the escape from the cycle of birth and 
death, are the same in the Vedic Paths of Renunciation as in 
Buddhism. But, a.s the Vedic religion was prior in point of time 
to Gautama Buddha, there is not the slightest doubt that these 
ideas were originally from the Vedic religion. 

I have so far pointed out the differences and the similarities 
between the Vedic and the Buddhistic Paths of Renunciation. 
Let us now see what Buddha had to say regarding the state 
of a householder. Although Buddhism i.s based on four 
visible foundations, namely, the existence of unhappiness in 
worldly life, etc., and does not attach any importance to the 
Philosophy of the Atman and the Non-Atman, yet, it must 
be borne in mind that Biiddhlsm was not fundamentally 
Energistic, like the purely Materialistic religion of modern 
philosophers like Cornto, or even like the Gita-religion. It is 
true that Buddha doG.s not accei)t the philosophical ‘ vision ’ 
(drsti) of the Knowledge of the Atman described in the 
XJpanisads. But, as Buddhism has adopted in toto the doctrine 
enunciated by Yajnavalkya in the Brhadaranyakopanisad (Bf 4. 
4. 6), that it is the highest duty of every man in this world to 
give up worldly life altc^gother, and to make the Mind desireless 
and free from slavery to the objects of pleasure, that religion 
has fundamentally become a religion of Renunciation purely. 
The .sum and substance of the whole advice of Buddha is, 
that it is impossible to acquire the highest happiness, 
or the position of an nrhit/i, if (.)no remains in the state of a 
hou.seholder. Still, it is not that Buddhism does not at all deal 
with the state of a householder. Buddhistic treatises have 
given the name hfpa.sY/A-u ’ to those persons who, without becoming 
monks, put faith in BUDDHA, in hi,s REIHGION, and in the 
SOCIETIES of MONKS, and who surrender themselves to these 
three, by reciting the incantation 'biuklluim surunam f/acchund’, 
ilhnriiui'ih saranum (i<i(‘(diUitn’, ‘naiif/lni/h saru'iuiiu (jucchumi', i. e., 
‘I surrender myself to Buddha, to his religion, and to the 
religious societie,s . These (Jpasakas may be taken to be the 
householders of Buddhism: and Buddha himself has in some 



V - The date op the PEESENT OITA 


809 


places preached how these Upasakas should live 'n the state of 
householders, when he had occasion to giv( this advice 
(Mahaparinibhana-sutta, 1.‘M). Buddha did iict accept either 
the Srauta religious sacrifices i)ertaiiiiug to ihe state of a 
householder, which involved the slaughter of animals, or the 
division of society into the four castes. When these things are 
elimiiiatci'l, all that remain out of the duties of a householder, 
are the li'vo Maliayajha.s of the tSmrtis, ].)hilanthrophy and other 
charitable duties, and leading a moral life; anc in describing 
the state ..'f a householder, these' arc the only tlrings which are 
referred tc' in Buddhistic religious treatises. Buddha has said 
that (very householder, or tJpa.saka, must perform the five 
Mahayajha.s; and ho has also clcairly laid down f h it the Buddhist 
Upa.saka inusi olxserve such rules of Morality as, Non-Violence 
{ahif/im), Voracity {mluai'n), Not-BB.'aling Sympathy 

towards all created things {sarr(iJ>hrit<iniil:i///tpu), Set '-Idontilication 
falthough ho did not aca-ept the (j.'iistonce of the Atman), Purity, 
or mental chastity, and esjjecially, making chaistable gifts of 
food, raimc'iit (itc. to Buddliist monks or Buddhist monastaries. 
This is technicariy known in Buddhism as ‘si'a’ (Morality); 
and these mles of Morality have, like the live Maliayajhas,, been 
adopted by B.iddha from the Bhanua-Biitra.s or the ancient 
Hmrti ireafi.ses (Manu. (i. 93 and 10, (id) of the Brahmin religion, 
a.s becomes quite clear when one compares l)oth'^‘. Nay, Buddha 
himself ha.s praised the old Brahiiiiu race with reforence to this 
mode of life in the Brahinaiia-'Dhaiiimika-sutta; and some of 
the stanza: from the Mauii-Biiirti have Jicon adojited word for 
word into the Dhaumiapada (Bee Maim. :l. 131, .rud 5. 45; and 
Dhammapiula, 109 and 131). But, it is not that Buddhism has 
adopted oniy the live Mahay'ajnas and the princi])! ;s of Morality 
from our V'edic treatise.s. Buddha had also accepted the opinion 
expressed in some of the earlier hlpaiiisads, that .lielease is 
never attained according to the Vedic religion by remaining in 
the stat-o of a householder. .Bor instance, while comparing the 
Upasaka with a Bhiksu in the Dhammika-tntta in the 
•Buttanipato, Buddha has clearly stated that a hou.' eholder may 
by living a pure life, at most reach the .sjihero of the 
^self-illumiaed’ anayiijintliilsa) god.s; hut that iu erder to escape 
*' Sou Pr. Korn's Manual i>f IJiiddhism {Grundris.s, fll, 8) p. 68. 







810 


GlTA-RAHASyA OR KARMA-YOGA 


the cycle of births and deaths, he must give up his wife and’ 
children, and ultimately take up the life of a monk. (See 
Dhammika-sutta, 17. 29; and Br. 4. 4. 6; Ma. Bha. Yana. 2, 63). 
There is a statement in the Tevilia.sutta that in arguing with 
ritualising Vedic Brahmins, Buddha used to adopt the following 
argument in order to justify his advocacy of Renunciation, 
namely, “if your Brahman does not have any wife or children 
or any mental emotions, how will you reach that Brahman 
by remaining with your wife and children and performing 
ritualistic sacrifices (Te. Su. 1. 35; 3.5); and it is well 
known that Buddha himself acquired the state of Release 
after having given up his wife and sou in the bloom of youth^ 
and lived the life of a monk for six years. The same is the 
teaching of the Jain saint Mahavira, who lived at the same 
time as Buddha, but who entombed himself (became sninadhintlui) 
before Buddha. But the important difference between these 
two religions i;’. that Mahavira did not deny the existence 
of the Atman like Buddha, and that Jain monks followed—and 
even to this day follow—tho rules of abandoning clothes and 
other worldly plea:iuros, and the creed of Ron-Violonca (akidtsu), 
even more rigorc.msiy than Buddhist monk:.!. Buddha himself 
used to eat the flesh known as ‘ pai'ulta' (in Sanskrit, pravrtta),. 
i. e., ‘flesh which is already there’, of animals which had not 
been killed for eating, except the Hash of eiephants, lions, and 
some other animals; and ho had abso permitted Buddhist monks 
to eat ‘ pamiki' fle.sh and fi.sh; and according to Buddhi.sni, going 
about naked without clothes, is a crime (Mahavagga. 6. 31. 14; 
and 8. 28. 1). In short, although the definite advice of Buddha to 
his disciples was that one should beconio a monk, denying 
the existence of the Atman, y(3t, he was not in favour of severe 
religious austerities entailing bodily pain (Mahavagga. 5. 1. 16, 
andGi. 6. 16); and th(3 normal arrangement in the monasteries 
( vihrira) built for the residence of Buddhist monks was such, 
that they could perform the Yogic practices of pranaijrtma ate.,. 
without suffering bodily pain. Nevertheles.s, as it is a fixed 
principle of Buddhism that the .state of a householder must he 
given up in order to acquire the bli.ss of Nirvana, or the state 
of an arhafa (Perfect), that mode of life doss not contravene 
the statement that Buddhism supports Renunciation (m/iinyasa) 






VI-The GITA AND BUDDHISTIC LITERATURE 811 


Although Buddha was lirnily of opinion that ’.he Knowledgo 
of the Bi’ihman, or the meditation on the A’,man and the 
Hon-Atman, was a groat net of confusion, yet, he had accepted 
the Upanisadie. procedure of making the Mind ‘ free from the 
slavery to objects of pleasure’ (nirnmi/a) by cultivating: 
indifference towards worldly life, which (proccd ire) pertained 
to the Path of Renunciation, in order to achie'’-G the visible 
object of escaping from the painful cycle of bir fh and death,, 
and obtaining perpetual Peace (sow//); and when it has once 
been pj-ovcd that Buddhism accoi)ts all the Vedic moral iwecepts 
relating to the state of a householder, with only slight modi¬ 
fication;’, here and there, exce])t those relating tc the division 
of sucie.ty into four castes and to the slaughter o ' animals for 
ritualistic saorifioo into the (ire, there is no wander that the 
d 0 scriptionm)f Vedic Samny/isinis given in the I’ pinisads or in 
the Manu-Smrti etc., and the descriptions of Buddhist monks 
or of an vrhata, or siudi nilcs of Morality as Non-Violence 
etc., .should bo the same—uay, sometimes word for word the 
same—in both the religions. All those Llung;; are originally 
from the Vedic religion; but, these are not the only things which 
have been taken by Buddhists from the Vtdic religion. 
Buddhistic Jataka-troatisos like l,l.ie Dasarathu-Jfitaka, are 
in the same way only traruiformations of ancient Vedic stories 
from the Puranaii, which have 1)cen niado co isistent with 
Buddhiiiin. Not only Buddhists, but oven Jains, have in this 
way transformed Vedic stories in tlicur Abhinava Purana; and 
the Mahomedan religion, which came into existence after the 
death of Christ, has similarly perverted one story -'rom the life 
of Christ, as has been stated by Pn.)!. Sale *; and it has been 
established by recent researches, that Jews in ti e same way 
transformed, the religiou.s stories of Lli,o ancient Cfialdeans, for 
describing the creation of the Universo, the D duge, or the 
Arc of Noah, in their Old Testament. If wo .see that the 
Buddhistic ]-eligious treatises have thus adopted—end that too, 
sometimes absolutely literally—the doscriptiont, stories, or 
ideas to ho found in the Upanisads, the ancient Dbarma-Sutras, 

See Sale’s Koran “ To the Reader ”, (PrefttO(), p. X; and 
the Preliminary Discourse, Sec. IV, p. 58^ (Obaiidoa Classics 
Edition). 







812 


GITA-RAHASYA OR KARMA-YOGA 


or in the Manu-Smrti, then, one can naturally draw the 
inference that the stanzas ‘ enmity is increased by victory 
and ‘enmity does not destroy enmity’, from the Udyogaparva 
(Ma. Bha. Udyo. 71. 59 and 63), or the stanza, ‘the anger of 
another should be conquered by peacefulness’ from the 
Viduraniti (Ma. Bha. Udyo. 38. 63), or the statement of Janaka 
that, “if you aimoint one of my hand,s with sandalwood-paste 
and cut off the other hand, it will be all the same to me” (Ma. 
Bha. San. 320. 36), a.s also the several other stanzas from the 
Mahabharata, which are seen to be word for word the same in 
Buddhistic treatises (Dhamniapada5and223, and Milinda-Prasna 
7. 3. 5), rau.st have been originally in the Mahabharata, from where 
they were adopted by Buddhists. But, thcjugh one can, without 
fear of contradiction, say that the stanzas or ideas from the 
Vedio Upanisacls, Brahma-Sutra.s, or the Manu-Smrti, which 
one comes across in the Buddhistic treatises, were copied by 
them from tho.se Vedic treati.se.s, since tho.se treatises were 
undoubtedly more ancient than Buddha, one cannot say the 
same thing about the Mahabharata. As the Mahabharata 
contains a reference to Buddhistic Dagobas, it is quite clear 
that the last edition of that work must have been made after 
the date of Buddha; but one cannot merely on the ground of 
similarity of .stanzas, draw the conclusion that the present 
Mahabharata must have been prior in point of time to the 
Buddhistic treatises; and as the Gita is a part of the Maha¬ 
bharata, the same argument may be applied to the Gita. 
Besides, as ha.s been stated above, the Gita contains a reference 
to the Brahma-Sutras and the Brahma-Sutras contain a 
refutation of Buddhistic opinions. Therefore, we will now 
consider whether or not we can find some other evidence 
in Buddhistic treatises, in addition to the similarity 
between the descriptions of the Sthitaprajha etc., in the Gita 
and the Buddhistic treatises, which will remove such a doubt, 
and establish beyond question the fact that the Gita was 
earlier in point of time than the Buddhistic treatises. 

I have stated above that the original form of Buddhism 
totally denied the oxi,stence of the Atman, and was in favour of 
Renunciation; but it did not retain this its form for long. 
Not only did several sub-sects come into existence after the 




VI - Tl-lE GITA AND BUDDHISTIC LITEHATUEE 813 


death of Buddha, as a result of differonces of opinion about 
the rules of conduct to be followed by mcnks, but such 
difference- of opinion canio into existence also is regards the 
philosophy of Buddhism. And now-a-days there are even 
people, v no assert that Buddha, liy saying tha’, there was no 
Atman, intended only to say that, “instead of wasting your 
time in dry discussions about the Knowledge of the 
unimaginable Atman, make the Mind desireles.s by practising 
indiftereiKB to worldly life; let there be an Atman, or no 
Atman; concentration of the Mind is of primaly importance, 
and you must first make an effort to acquire t uit concentra¬ 
tion’’. And tho.s;) critic.s say that Buddha did not intend to 
deny the existence of the Brahman or of the Annan, because, 
in the Tevijja-Sutta, Buddha himself lia.s described the state of 
*hruhiiui-stthavnataya’; and in the Bela-sutta and the Theragatha, 
he has described his own state by saying: “ I am Brahmabhiita ’’ 
(Sola. Bu. Id; Ther. Ga, 831). But, whateyor the original 
intention of .Buddha may have been, yet, there is no doubt 
that various philosophical opinions, arguments, or doctrinal 
sects, saying “neither the Atman nor the Brahman, nor 
any other Eternal Bubstance is the fiiiHhmient of the universe; 
all that w^e see is transient and non-existent", or, “whatever 
can be seen is only Knowledge", came into existence later 
on out of his doctrines (Ve. Bn. Sam. Bha. i. i. 18^26). This 
atheistic or nn-Atmic Buddhistic doctrine is also known 
as ‘ kmnihivlhla' (Theory of Tran.sience), ‘ su-ni/c vuda ’ (Theory 
of Non-Existence), or 'vijhmui-viifia' (Theorj of Know¬ 
ledge). But it is not necessary for us to deal with all these 
various sects here. We have to deal with the historical 
aspect of the matter; and 1 shall, therefore, mention 
here only as much as is necessary for solving that historical 
question, namely, the history of only the Mahayana sect. 
As the existence of the Atman or the Brahman (and necessarily 
also of the Paramatman, or the Paramesvara), had been denied or 
considered of minor importance in the religion originally 
preached by Buddha, it was hardly possible that le could have 
personally preached in his lifetime the iiath of reaching the 
Paramesvara by means of Devotion; and sc long as his 
imposing figure and his course of life were hef jre the eyes of 




814 


GITA-EAHASYA OR KARMA-YOGA 


the people, there was no necessity for that religious path. But the 
path of devotion gradually came into favour with ordinary people, 
and it became necessary to show them some easier and more 
practical course than the atheistic renunciatory path of giving up 
worldly life, becoming a monk, and ( without knowing in what 
to become annihilated) attaining Annihilation (nirvana), whore 
one was. Nay, it is even po,ssible that the ordinary devotees of 
Buddha, followed the Vedic Path of Devotion, which was then 
in vogue, and started the worship of Buddha of their own accord. 
Therefore, shortly after the Annihilation {mrvam) of Buddha, 
some Buddhist philo.sophers gave to Buddha him.self the form of 
a “ self-created (svanambhn), and eternal (anadijwita), Highest 
Spirit(pa?'/tsof/a«w)”;niidpreached that attaining ‘Annihilation’ 
(nirvUria) was only his pastime, and that “ the true Buddha can 
never be de.stroyed and is always eternal”. Audit also came 
to be preached in Buddhistic treatises, that as “ the true Buddha 
is the father of the world and tlio people are his children ”, ho is 
“ equable towards everybody, and loves none and hates none”; 
and that, “ when the state of religion gets disrupted, he takes 
incarnations from time to time, for ‘propagating religion’ in 
the shape of Buddha” ; and that ‘‘by worshipping this dvvatideva 
(god of gods) Buddha, by worshipping his religious books, and by 
preaching before his Dagoba ”, nay, “ by dev(jutly offering to 
him a few lotus-buds or oven a single flower ”, man attains the 
highest of states (See Baddharma-Pundarika 2, 77-98; 5. 22; 
15, 5-22 ; and Milinda-Prasua 3. 7. 7). ft is even stated in the 
Milinda-Prasna that “ although the whole of the life of a man 
may have been spent in evil actions, yet, if he surrenders 
himself to Buddha at tho moment of death, he will without 
doubt reach heaven ” (Mi. Pra. 3. 7. 2); and it is stated in detail 
iii the second and third chaijters of the Saddharma-Pundarika, 
that ‘‘ as the spiritual status, inherent nature, and spiritual 
knowledge of all persons is not the same, Buddha, out of 
kindness and by his skill (wpayahiukilija), created this path 
(i/miu) of Devotion, in addition to tho Renunciatory un-Atmic 
The work Sadiharma-l'iindiarika had boon translated in 
Volume XXI of the Sacred Books of the East Series. This book is 
originally in tho Sanskrit language ; and the original Sanskrit text 
has also now been published. 






VI -THE GiTA AND BUDDHISTIC LITERATURE 815 


path”. It waB not poBHihlu at any tiiiiG to entirely discard the 
doctrine preached hy Bviddlia hiinselt' that one must take up the 
state of a monk in order to reacii ‘Annihilation’ (nindnu)', 
l.>ecause, ckving so would have amounted to cutting at the very 
t'onndation of the original preaching of Buddha. But there was 
Jio objection to saying tliat it was the duty of Buddhist monks 
to ■ perform phila'TithrophieaJ and charitable acts like the 
propagation of religion with a desireiesB frame of 

iniiid, instead of living alone and in dejection in the forest 
like a ‘rhinoceros’, though tltey might he iironks. ''' This 
oijinum has been atlvocatial in the Saddharma-Pundarlka and 
other treatises of the Mahayana sect, undiNagaiena has told 
Milinda (Mi. Bra. (1. 'Z. 4), that, ” it is ihT hnposable to attain 
Annihilation ^(ly remaining in the slat j of a liouse- 

lujlder, anci that many sutdi cases are to be soei Anybody 
will easily reali.so that tite.se idea.s are not fnan the original 
nn-Atniic and run unci a lory Buddhistic religion, and that they 
cannot lie supported on the basis of the 'J’heory of Non-Existence 
(sunija-radd), or the Theory of Knowledge {vijh~i ui-vada) \ and 
many Buddhi.sts at first thought that those ideas were 
inconsistent with the original prtiaching of Buddha. But 
this new opinion naturally liecaim! more and more popular 
later (ui, .uid the Bath followed hy those who adhered 
to the original preaching of Buddha, acquired the name 
of ‘ Idlnayilna ’ (iuferi(.)r ]>atii). and the new path came 
to he known as ‘ IVIalulyana’ ( sui);',rior iiah)t. The 

Tin; rofrfliu (Miuvit-pada) of tdio 41 at inzas of the 
Klr.iggtivisana-siitta out, of tUo Bntta-iiipiita is ‘‘ eko rare khaygnvisdTla 
kappa ' l:hayijavimna’ iiumns ‘ rbiiioooroa and tlu' -efrain means 
that the Iiuddlii,3t monk slionld live iiloiii! in tlio woods like a 
rhinoceros. 

f In deacr.ibing tlie differene(,; bolweon Idle IIid. ijana and the 
Mahayana sects. Dr. Kern says as follows;—“Not the Arhat, 
who lias shaken off all human feeling^ but the generous, aolf- 
sa rlLicing, active liodhisattva is the ideal of the Maliayanists, and 
this attractive side of the creed has, nu)re perhaps tjian anything 
else, contributoil to their wide eonqueats, when as Southern 
Buddhism has not been able to make convert,s, tjxpeet whore the soil 
has been prepared by Hinduism and Mahayanisiu— Manual of 




816 


GiTA-RAHASYA OE KARMA-YOGA 


Buddhistic religion now in vogue in China, Japan, Tibet etc;, 
is of the Mahayana sect; and the societies of monks belonging 
to the Mahayana sect were principally responsible for the 
vigorous expansion of Buddhism after the Annihilation 
{nirvarm) of Buddha. Dr. Kern has come to the conclusion that 
this reform in Buddhism must have taken place about 300 years 
before the Salivahana Saka,because, there wa.s a big conference 
of Buddhist monks in the reign of the Saka king Kaniska. 
We find statements in Buddhistic works that monks of the 
Mahayana sect were present at that conference ; and the Chinese 
translation of the most important .s-a/m-book of this Mahayana 
sect called Ainitayu-sutta, made in about 148 A. D., is now 
available. But in my opinion, this date must i)e taken still 
further back; because, the stone inscriptions made by Asoka 
about 230 B. C. do not contain any reference to the atheistic- 
Buddhistic religion, but to the humanitarian and Activistic 
Buddhistic religion. It is, therefore, clear that the Mahayana 
doctrine of Buddhism had begun to acquire the Activistic form 
before that date. The Buddhist monk Nagarjuna was the 
principal protagonist and not the oidginator of this sect. 

As it was not possible that the original atheistic Buddhistic- 
religion, which denied the existence of the Brahman and the 
Atman, and accepted only the Renunciatory path of the 
Upanisads which (path) aimed at freeing the mind from the 
slavery to objects of pleasure, should gradually and naturally 

Indian Buddhism^ p. 69. ‘ Southern Bucldhisiu ’ means Hinayana ■, 

the Philosophy of Devotion has found a place In the Mahayana 
creed. ‘‘ Mahayanism lays great stress on devotion, in this respect 
as in many others, harmonising -with the current of feeling in 
India -which led to the growing importance of Bhahti” (Ibid. p. 124). 

* See Dr. Kern’s Mamutl of Indian Buddhism pp. 6, 69 and 119. 
Milinda (the Greek king named Minauder) rulod in the country 
called Bactria, in the north-west of India about 140 or 150 B. 0. ; 
and it is stated in the Milinda-Prasna that Nagasona then con¬ 
verted him to Buddhism. As this work of proselytising, was 
carried on only by the Buddhists belonging to the Mahayana path, 
it is quite clear that the Mahayana path was in existence at that- 
tinie. 



VI - ^I’HE GiTA AND BUDDHISTIC LITERATURE 817 


give rise to the Activistic path of Devotion, it is quite clear that 
there must have been some other contemporary eauso outside 
the Buddhist religion which was res{)onsii)le for giving to the 
Buddhist religion this Activistic devotional io-m, which it 
acquired soon alter tlte death of Buddha; and when one considers 
what that cause must have been, one cannot but think of the 
Bliagavadgita. Because, out of tim other religion-; which were 
then in force in India, the Jain and the Upanisidic religions 
were wliolly renunciatory ; and although tlie Pasupata or Saiva 
or other SCI.'ts of the V'edic religion advocated Do ahion, yet, as 
has beem clearly sliown by mo in the eleventh, draptcr of the 
(.lita-Rahasya, Activism has not beem harmonise 1 with Devo¬ 
tion, anywhere except in the Bhagavadgita. In the Gita, the 
Blessed Lord bus called Himself ‘the Most excnllont Spirit’ 
ipiirusottan'd) ; and thi're arc such statements in the Gita as “I am 
the Purusottama, Who is the ‘father’ and ‘grand-father’ 
(9. 17) of all ” ; or, “ 1 urn ‘ equable ’ tt,)wards all, f( r, to Me none 
is dear, nor inimical” (9. 29); or, “tliongh I am unborn and 
inexhaustible, yet, I liave to ta.kc? incarnations fr')i i time to time 
for the protec.tion of the religion ” (-1. (r-8); or, “however sinful 
a man may her, ho iKwmries a,saint hy heginning tc worship Me ” 
(9. 30); or, “if any (lower, leaf, or even a little water, is 
offered to me witli Devotion, 1 accept it v ith pleasure”' 
(9. 20); or, “Devotion is a very easy patl for person.s 
who have not acquired Knowledge” etc,; anil the doctrine 
tliat the Brahman-devoted {hrah.iinuii.'i/.hti) mu ;t accept the 
Path of Activism has not been expounded in detail any¬ 
where except in the Gita. Tliorefore, one is fea-i ed to draw the 
conclusion tli.at, just as the pui-ely rominciatory path of the 
Destruction of Desire has been taken into the original Buddhistic 
religion from the Upauisads, so also has th( principle of 
Activistic Devotion been adopted into the Mabayana sect from 
the Bhagavadgita, But, this fact does not rest only in inference ; 
for, it is clearly stated in the hook written by the Buddhist 
’faranatha in the Tibetan language, which duals with the 
history of tli.e Buddhistic religion, that “ Rahulabhadra, the 
preceiffor of Wagarjiina, was a Brahmin convertec to Buddhism; 
and tlie Jnanin Sri Krsna and Ganosa were re.spi n.sii)lo for this 
Rahulabliadra getting those ideas (of the Mahayima sect)” ; and 





S18 GiTA-RAHASYA OR KARMA-YOGA 


there is a similar statement in another Tibetan book.* It is 
true that this book of Taranatha is not very ancient; 
but, I need not say that the statements in it have 
not been made ■without the authority of ancient 'works; 
because, it is not likely that any Buddhist writer will, 
without any reason, make a reference in this way to saints 
from another religion in explaining the principles of 
his own religion. Therefore, the fact that a Buddhist w'riter 
has himself, clearly and by name, referred to Sri Krsna, 
is a matter of very gi-eat importance; because, as there is 
no other book in V'edic religion dealing with the path 
of Activisitic Devotioii except the Bhagavadgita written by 
Sri Krsna, this reference clearly shows that not only the 
Bhagavata religion Init also the Bhagavadgita written by Sri 
Krsna 'for expounding the Bhagavata religion, were already 
is existence be'fore the Mahayana sect; and Dr. Kern is of the 
same opinion. When it is proved that the Gita existed before 
the date of the Mahayana sect, one can immediately draw the 
inference that the Mahahharata must also have then been in 
existence. It is true that it is stated in Buddhistic treatises 
that the doctrines expounded hy Buddha were collected together 
immediately after his death. But from that it does not follow 
that the very ancient Buddhistic treatises which are now 
available had also be(3ii written at that date. The Mahaparini- 
bbana-sutta is considered to bo a very ancient treatise out of 
the now available Buddhistic treatises. But Prof. Rhys-Davids 
has shown that this book could n(.)t have been written for at 
least a 100 years after the death of Buddha, having regard to 

■* ScG Dr. Kern's l\[anual of Indian Buddhism p. 122 “ He 
^Nagarjuiia) 'was a pnpil of the Brnbinaua Raliulnbliadra, who 
himself was a Mnhayanist. This Brahmana was much indebted to 
the sage Krishna and still more to Ganesha. This quasi-historical 
notice, reduced to its loss allegotieal expression, means that 
Mahayanism is much indebted to the Bhagavadgita, and more 
even to Shaivism It would seem that Dr. Kern understands the 
word '• tjane^a’ as indicating Saivism. Dr. Kern has translated 
the book Saddharma-Pnpdarika in the Sacred Books of the East 
Series; and this opinion Las been advocated by him in the 
Introduction to that book (8. B, E. Vol. XXI. Intro, pp. xxv-xxviii). 




YI-The GITA AND BUDDHISTIC LITERATURE 819 


the rol'ereiice made in it to the city ol Patalipntfa; and it is 
stated in Ihe Vinayapitiika, at the (nid t)f tiie Cu lavagga, that 
there had lieen a second conference of Buddhisti-! monks a 100 
years after tiie death of Buddha. From tliis i1 follows, that 
the Vinay-ipitaka and other Bnddhi.stic Pali works found in 
Ceylon, Ira l l)een written after th(> date of this (Conference.It 
is stated hy Buddhist writers themselves that those works wore 
taken thcr^.' hy MalK'iidra, the s.on of Asoka, when ho started the 
preaching of tine Buddhistic, religion in tin; Simhaladvipa 
(Ceylon) about :M1 B. and I,hat they must first have 
appeared in 111lok-fonn ahont 100 to 150 years alter that date. 
It was usual in thiase times to learn these boukis iiy heart, and 
therefore, even if one assnme.s that there was no change in 
them i.m that account after the date of MalHiulra, yet, one 
cannot say tlnit nothing was added to these treadses from the 
then availalde Vodic treatises when they were first prepared, 
after the doatlt of Buddha, or affor that, upto the date of 
Mahendra or Asoka. 'I'herefore, a.s it is peeved by other 
evidence also, that tJw Malifihharata was certainly in existence 
at any rate bei.'oro K ing Alexander, that is to KC.y, 3‘25 B. C.> 
though, it may have been written a.l’ter the date of Buddha, it 
is not impossiide to find .some stanzas from the Mahabharata 
in the hooks taken into Ceylon hy Mmhendra, as other stanzas 
are found Ga.ki n inlu them from the Mauu-Snirli. ft i.s seen, 
in short, flint seeing tfiat the Bnildhistic religion was being 
propagated after the deatli of Bnddlia, ancient Vedic Gathas 
and tradit ions came to lie coilectcsl (.ugother in the Mnhaiiharata; 
that the si.anzas from ttiat work whicli a.ppear in Buddhistic 
treaf.isos have fieen taken hy the Biiddfiist wiitor.s from the 
Mahatihai'uta; and that the writer of the Mahabharata did not 
take thost stanzas from Buddliistie works. liLg:, even if one 
assumes for the sake of argument that (</) these stanzas were 
not taken liy the Buddhist writers from the Mahabharata, 
hut were taken from some oUier Vedic treatisis, which were 
the liasis ' f tiie Maliafiharaf.a, but which are not now to be 
found, aiii that, (h) on that account, the date of i.In Mahabharata 
cannoi be fixed fi'om this .similarity of .stanzas, y es, the following 
four facts, namely, (I) princ.ijiles of A.etivism and Devotion 

See S, B. U. Vul. XI. Intro, pp, xv-xx, iiiiil p, 58. 





830 


GiTA-BAHASyA OR KARMA-YOGA 


cannot gradually and naturally be evolved from the un-Atmic and 
renunciatory original Buddhistic religion, (3) the specific reference 
by name to Sri Krsna made by Buddhist writers themselves 
in connection with the origin of the Mahayana sect, (3) the 
similarity in meaning and terminology between the Activistic 
and Devotional doctrines in the Gita and the doctrines of the 
Mahayana sect, and (4) the absence of Activistic devotional 
principles in the other Jain or Vedic sclioul;; of thought, which 
were then in existence, prove beyond the slightest doubt 
that (i) the Bhagavata religion was in vogue before the growth 
of the Mahayana sect of Buddhism; that, (ii) the Bhagavadgita 
had then become an accepted work on all hands; that, (iii) the 
Mahayana sect has been formed on the authority of this Gita; 
and that (iv) the doctrines enunciated by Sri Krsna in the Gita 
were not borrowed by Him from Buddhism. The date of the 
present Gita which has been fixed by me by reference to the other 
pieces of evidence mentioned above is fully c<.m!ustent with this. 
PART VII—THE GITA AND THE CHRISTIAN BIBLE. 

When it has in this way been definitely established, as 
mentioned above, that the devotional Bhagavata religion canie 
into existence in India about 1400 year.s before Christ, and that 
the Gita written by Sri Krsna wa.s, according to the opinion 
of Buddhist writers themselves, re.spon;:ible for Activistic 
Devotional doctrines entering the original renunciatory 
Buddhistic religion promulgated before the date of Christ, the 
the argument advanced in certain Christian Missionary treatise.s> 
that, because many of the doctrines of the Gita are to be found 
in the Christian Bible, that is, in the New Tustamont, these 
doctrine.s must have been taken into the Gita from the Christian 
religion, and especially the statements made by Dr. Laurincer 
in his German translation of the Gita, published in 1869, will 
necessarily bo seen to be absolutely false. Dr, liauriiicer has 
shown at the end of his hook (that is, of his German translation 
of the Gita) more than a hundred cases of similarity of words 
between the Bhagavadgita and the Bible, and principally the 
New Testament. Eor instance, the sentence “ At that day, ye 
shall know that I am in my Rather, and ye in me, and I in 
you” (John. 14. 30), is not only similar in moaning but also 
almost word for word the same as the following sentences from 





VII -The GITA AND THE CHTIISTIAN'BIBLE 831 


tlie Gita, namely, “ !i(^nn Ithufanu drakf^yanj atmany aliio 

mayi” (i. e,, “by this Knowledge, you will realise ihat all beings 
are in you, and also in Me”—Trans.), (Gi, 4, 35), and “//o maw 
pasi/ati sarvufru fturvain m tttaiji piisnnti'', (i. e., “ h<' wlio sees that 
I, the Pai-am(!svara Parainatman am everywhevf , and sees all 
beings in Me ” —Trans,), Similarly, the sentence ‘ he that loveth 
me, .shall be loved of my ]<’'athpr and will love him ’ (John 14, 21) 
is in every way similar to the sentence “/ro/o hi jndnino 
'iyatihahi tihtii'n .s-a ca iiKiina pr/i/ah” (i. o„ “I am .m ich l)eluved of 
the Jhanin, and Itoo love (much) the Jnanin”—Ti'ans.), (Gl. 7', 87), 
B’rom this ;ind many other similar sentences. Dr, .jauriTicur has 
drawn the conclusion that the writer i,)f the Gita knew about 
the Bible; and he has said that the Gita must have been written 
about 50(1 years after the Bible. An English ;rans]ation of 
this portion of the work of Dr. Danrinccr had been published in 
Vol. IT. of the Indiim Anlviii.iiry, and the late ]V r. Telang has, 
in the introduction to his versified translation of he Bhagaviid- 
gltS, fully refuted that argument'’’. Dr. laui dncer is not 
looked upon as a Western Hanskritist, and hi.s Imowledge and 
pride of the (.Jiristian redigion was more than his knowledge (,)f 
the Gita, Therefore, his opinions Imve not been accepted not 
only by the late Mr. Telatig, but also l)y impt): tant Western 
Sanskritists like 'Max Muller and others. That all the state¬ 
ments made by him, showing hundreds of sim il irities of idea.s 
and words lic^tween the Gita and the Bible, would turn round on 
him like ghosts, when once it was proved that the Gita was 
earlier than (fhrist, had possibly never ethered ih.; head of poor 
Lauriiicer ! But the saying that, things which one does ni.>t 
see even in one’s dreams, .sometimes actually h.ippen, is true ; 
and, really speaking, it is not even necessary now to give any 
reply to the arguments of Dr. lauirincor. Yet, as these false 
opinions of Dr. i jauriiicer are seen i)eing repeated in authorita¬ 
tive Engl ish works, it is necessayy to mention hero iti short 
what has now been found, after modern re.’-e;ircli.es in this 
matter. It must first be borne in mind that from the mere fact 
bee ]!haijavad(jlfd translated into English b ank verso, with 
notes ( tc. by K. T. Tolang 1875 (Bombay). Th is boolt is different 
from tire translation in tho Hacred Books of the Eaa Scries by the 
same author. 




833 


GITA-RAHASYA OR KARMA-YOGA 


that there are similar doctrines in two different books, one cannot 
definitely determine which' book was written first and which 
afterwards. Because, there arise the two po.ssibilities that 
(1) the ideas in the first book, may have been taken from the 
second book, or (3) the ideas, in the second book may have been 
taken from the first book. 'rherefore, after one has first 
independently determined the dates of two books, one has to 
subsequently decide who has taken from whom. Besides, as it 
is not impossiblo that similar thoughts should strike two writers 
in two different countries independently of each other, whether 
at the same time or at different times, one has, in considering 
■the similarity between the two books also to consider w'hether 
or not that similarity could have arisen in an independent way; 
and whether or not there was any mutual intercourse between 
the two countries in which these two books were written, and, on 
that account, a chance of these ideas having gone from one 
country to the other. When once the inatter has been considered 
from all points of view, it is not only impossible that anything 
should have been taken int(J the Gita from the Bible, but on the 
other hand, it will be seen to be perfectly possible that such of 
the doctrines enunciated in the Ghristia]i Bible as are similar 
to those in the Gita, must have been taken into the Bible from 
Buddhism-—that is, ultimately from the Gita, or from the Vedic 
religion—by Christ or by His disciples; and some Western 
scholars have now begun even to openly say so. When in this 
way, orthodox Christians saw that the scales were turned 
against them, it is no wonder that they wore greatly surprised 
about the matter, and felt inclined to flatly deny this fact. 
But all that I have to say to such per.'^ons is that, as this 
question is not religious, but historical, the only logical and 
honest thing which every one—-and especially those who have 
themselves raised the (luostion of the similarity of ideas—can 
do, is to joyfully and impartially accept all the inferences which 
can be drawn according to ordinary historical methods from the 
material which has ikiw become available to us. 

The New Testament has been written as an improvement 
on the Jewish religion propounded in the Jewish Bible, tbat is 
to say, in the Old Testament of the Bible. God is known in 
the Jewi.sh language as ‘ lioha ’ (Ilaha, in Arabic); but accord- 





VII - The GITA and the CHRISTIAN 3RBLE 823 


ing t(:> the rales made by Moses, the principal deity of worship in 
the Jewisli religion has beeti given the ,si)ecial name of ‘Jehovah’. 
Westi^rn scholars themselves have now proved that the word 
‘Jehovah' i.s not an original Jewish word, but has come from 
the Chaldean word 'yavhe (in Hanskrit, yavJut). Jews are not 
idolaters. Tiie principal observance of their religion consists in 
pleasing the Jehovali by sacrificing animals or other things into 
the fire, and following the code of religion and morality 
laid dowm by God, and thereby obtaining tbo happiness 
of themselves and of their community in this world. To 
mention the matter in short, the Jewish religion is Activistic 
and rituaji.stic like the Vedic Kanna-kanda. .'Ihrist has, on 
the other hasid, preac.hod ii\ iutmf.m)us places tha'i, “I will have 
mercy, and not sacrifice” (Matthew t). 13); “ Ye cannot servo 
God and Mammon” (Matthew'(). 24); “ If thou wilt be perfect, 

go and sell that thou ha,st.ai\d come ai d follow ine” 

(Matthew 19. 21); and when Ho sent, His disciples to different 
countries for propagating His religion. Ho told 1h )m: “Provide 
neither grid, nor silver, nor Imiss in your purses, nor scrip for 
your journey, neither two coats, iicdther shoos, n )r yet staves” 
etc., (Matihow 10, i)--13), and a.skod them to follow other similar 
rales of Renunciation. It is true that the modern Christian 
countries ha\'c coolly shelved this preaching o' Christ. But, 
just as the cult of Samkaracarya doo.s not heome a cult of 
royal plea,sure, because, the present Samka'acarya owns 
elephants and, horses, so also can we not, on account of this 
behaviour of the Western Christian countries say that the 
original Christian religion supported Activism. Just as, 
though the original Vedic religion was ba,sed on ritualistic 
performance,s (Karraa-kanda), the i:’ath of Kno\/ledge (Jnana- 
kanda) later on sprang out of it, so also are the Jewish and the 
Christian religions mutually inter-related. But, the Christian 
religion did not gradually come out of the Jewish religion, 
as the Jilana-kanda, and later on, the Devotional Bhagavata 
religion, came out of the original ritualistic Ke,rma-kanda in 
hundreds of years. History tells us that a sect of ascetics 
called ESI or ESIN suddenly came from somewhere ii]to 
the Jewish countries about 200 years at most before Christ. 
Although these Esis belonged to the Jowi.s'h religion, yet, 



824 


GlTi-RAHASYA OR KARMA-YOGA 


they had given up sacrifical ritual, and used to spend their 
lives in a peaceful place in contemplation of the Almighty, 
and they used at most to take part in harmless occupations 
like agriculture etc. for maintaining themselves. The most 
prominent principles of this sect were to remain celibates, to 
eschew meat and litpior, not to kill animals, not to take oaths, 
and to live together socially in monasteries; and, if any one of 
them ac(iuired any property, to look upon that property as the 
common property of the society; and if any one had a desire 
to enter their sect, it was necessary for him to serve as an 
apprentice for at least three years, and after that to consent 
to observe certain juries. Their monastery was at Endgi on the 
western coast of the Dead Sea, and they used to live there 
peacefully and as ascetics. The respectful references made by 
Christ Himself and His disciples in the New Testament to the 
opinions of the Esi sect (Matthew 5. 34 ; 19. 12 ; James 5. 12 ; 
The Acts 4. 32-35), clearly show that Jesus Christ was a follower 
of this sect, and Ho has to a great extent furthered the 
renunciatory religion of this sect. But though the renuncia¬ 
tory devotional path of Christ is in this way traced to the Esi 
sect, still it is necessary to give some satisfactory explanation 
from the historical point of view, as to how the renunciatory 
Esi path suddenly came into existence out of the original 
Activistic Jewish religion. Some answer this question by 
saying that Christ did not belong to the Esi sect. But though 
this statement is taken as correct, one cannot in that way 
escape the questions, (i) what was the origin of the renunciatory 
religion preached in the New Testament of the Bible, and 
(ii) how such a religion suddenly entered the Activistic Jewish 
religion; for, the only difference is, that instead of having to 
explain the origin of the Esi sect, one has to answer these 
two questions ; because, nothing comes into existence anywhere 
suddenly. It grows gradually, and the growth starts from a 
much earlier period; and it is a well-established rule of 
Sociology, that where such a growth is not noticed, the matter is 
usually found to have been adopted from a foreign country or 
from a foreign people. It is not that the former Christian 
writers had not realised this difficulty ; but before Europeans had 
come to know about Buddhism, that is to say, upto the 18th cen- 



VI [ - I’liE GITA an I) THE CHRISTIAN BIBLE 825 


tiii-y (if the Cliristian era, Christian research scholars were of the 
opinhin that the rennnclatory doctrines of the Esi sect must 
have entered tho! A.ctivistic Jewish reliKioii, at ^ result of the 
philosophy of the Oroeks, and cf;j)ecially of I^j thagoras, after 
an iritiinato reiatioiisliip liad boon (jstahlished betvmen the Greeks 
and tlio Jews. Recent roseardies pr(.)ve this inference to be false. 
Yet, this sh<.iws that the idea, that it was not nalurally possible 
for the Esi or Christian renunciatory religion to have come 
out of the ritualistic Jewish religion, and that there must have 
been some reason for it which wa.s outside the .i ewish religion, 
is not a new idea; and tliat this idea had luen accepted as 
correct by Christian scholars before the 18th century. 

Colelu'ocjJce ha.s said that there is a great deal of similarity 
•between tile philosophy of Bythagora.s and that if Buddhism*; 
.and theretore, if the above theory is accepted, tie parentage of 
the Esi sect naturally comes to lie traced to India ; but it is also 
not now necessary to mince matters about this iiu-istion, It will 
be seen liy a comparison of the Buddhistic religiius works with 
■the New Testament of the Bible that the similarity between 
not only tho E.si religion Init also the life of Christ and the 
preachings of Christ t.m the one hand and the Buddhism on the 
other hand, is a hundred time.s groafcer than the similarity 
between the Esi or tho Christian religion am:. Pythagorian 
philosupher.s. Just as the Devil truui to tempt Christ, and just 
as Christ fasted for forty days when He acipiirid the state of 
a Siddha (perfect man), so also did Mara temit Buddha, and 
Buddha on that occasion fasted fur forty-nine dayi (seven weeks) 
as has beisn stated in the liiography of Buddha In the same 
way, performing by tho force (.)f Faith alone .such thing.s as 
walking on water, making one’s face or body .suddenly appear 
.brilliant like the Sun, or redeeming even thieves or prostitutes, 
who liad surrendered themselves, are similar in the case of 
Buddha and of Christ; and the principal moral precepts of 
Christ, such as, “Love thy ncighhour”, or “ Love thy enemies” 
etc. will somjgtimes be found to have been given word for word, 
before the date of Christ, in tho Buddhistic religion. The 
philosophy of Devotion did not originally form part of 
Buddhism But, as has been stated above, that principle had 

* See Colebrooko's Misccllitneous Esiays, Vol. I. pp. 399, 400. 





836 


GITA-RA.HASYA OR KARMA-YOGA 


been adopted by the Mabayaiia Buddhist sect at least 300 
to 300 years before Christ, from the Bhagavadgita. But 
Mr. Arthur Lilly has authoritatively .shown in his books that 
this similarity does not exist only as regards these things, 
but that there are hundrods of othcsr snuill and big incidents, 
in which there is a similar similarity between the Christian 
and the Buddhist religions. Nay, the symbol of the Cross, 
which has become sacred to Chri.stians on account of the fact 
that Christ was crucified on a Cross, had also become a holy 
symbol in the Vodic and Buddhistic religions in the shape 
of a ‘.s7;u.s’//Am’, hundreds of years before Christ; and modern 
research scholars have proved that not only in Egypt and other 
countries in the ancient continents of tire earth, but even in 
Peru and Mexico in America, the .sata/iJca was looked upon a.s 
an auspicious sign .many ceTituries before Columbus"’, hr’om 
this one has to draw the conclusion, t)\at tlie fsmMika sign, 
which had become a matter of regard and reverence long 
before the date of Christ, was made use of in one particular 
way by the devotc'os, of Christ. There is also a great deal 
of similarity between the .Buddliist monks and the old Christian 
niissi(.)naries (specially the earliest preachers) so far as their 
dress and religious observances are concerned. For instance,, 
the ceremony of initiation after a bath, that is to .say ‘ baptism ’, 
wa.s in vogue long before the date of Christ; and it ha.s now 
been proved that Buddhist monks had wholly adopted the 
procedure of sending religious preachers to different countrie.s 
and thus propagating their religion, long before the date of 
Christian inis,sionarie,s. 

It i.s quite natural for a thinking person to ask himself why 
there should be such a strange and comprehensive similarity 
between the lives and the moral preachings of Buddha and Christ, 
and also between the religiou.s observairces of both these religionst. 

* See The Secret of the Pacific by 0, Iloginald Enoch, 1912 
pp. 248-252. 

t Mr. Arthur Lily has written a separate book on this subject 
called Buddhism in 0hristendim ; and he has also briefly expressed 
his opinion in the last four chapters of his book, Buddha and 
Buddhism. The exposition made by me in this part of the Appendix 
has been made principally on the authority of this book. The 






VII - The GITA AND THE CHRISTIAN BIBLE 827 


When this similarity first came to the n(jtioo of Western 
scholars by the study of Buddhistic treatises, some Christian 
scholars l)egan to say that Buddhists must have adopted these 
principles from the Asiatic Christian sect known as the 
‘ Nestorian ’ sect. But such a thing is absolutely impossible; 
because, the founder of the Nestorian sect himself came into 
existence about 425 years iiftor Christ, where is Buddha was 
horn about 500 years before Christ,, that is to say, nearly 900 
years before Nestor; ;ind it lias now Iioen established beyond 
doubt from the stone inscriptions of Asoka tliat in his times, 
that is to say, at least 250 years before the Christian era, 
Buddism was followed to a very large extent in India and in 
the surrounding countries, and works containing the life of 
Buddha etc. had also been written. The incientness of 
of the Buddhistic religion being in this way undouhtable, there 
remain ordy two possible conclusions regarding the similarity 
to be seen between the Christian and the Buddhistic religions, 
namely, that (1) this similarity must have arisen in the two 
place.s independently of each other, or that (2) these principles 
must have been taken by Olirist or 1 lis disciples from Buddhism. 
Prof. Rhys-Davids says that this similarity has arisen as a 
result of the similarity lietween the circumstances of both 
Christ and Buddha, and that it has arisen in both the places 
naturally and independentlyBut any one will realise after 
a little consideration that this solution is ne t satisfactory; 
because, when anything comes into exi,ste ice anywhere 
independently, it grows very gradually, and we can also 
see the course of the growth. For instance, we can logically 
show the gradual growth of the Jnana-kanla out of the 
Karma-kanda, and also how the iihilosophy of Devotion, 
the Patahjala-Yoga, and ultimately the Buddhistic religion 
grew gradually out of the Jnaiia-kanda, that is, from the 
Upanisads. But the renunciatory Esi or Christian religions 
have not grown in the same way from the Activistic Jewish 

book i)wdri/^a and iJadJAism was pubUshed in 1900 in The World’s 
Epoch Makers Series ; and in the tenth part of that book, about 
60 similaritieH between the Buddhist and the Christian religions 
have been shown. 

♦ See Buddhist Sums, S. B. E. Series, Yol. SI, p. 163. 



S28 


GITA-RAHASYA OR KARMA-YOGA 


Teligion. And I have stated above that modern Christian 
scholars have now admitted the position that the Christian 
religion came into existence suddenly, and that there was some 
cause outside the Jewish religion which was responsible for its 
having done so. Besides, the similarity between the Christian 
and the Buddhistic religions is so strange and so complete, that 
it is impossible for such a similarity to arise in an independent 
way. It would be different if it could be proved that it was 
totally impossible for Jewish people to have come to know 
anything about Buddhism. But history clearly proves that 
after the date of Alexander—and certainly at the date of Asoka 
fthat is, at least 250 years before Christ)—Buddhist monks had 
found their way to Alexandria in Egypt, and Greece, in the east 
of Europe, It is stated in one Asokan stone inscription itself that 
Asoka had entered into a treaty with Antiochus, who was a 
Greek king ruling over the Jewish and the surrounding countries. 
In the same way, there is a statement in the Bible itself, that 
learned persons had travelled into Jerusalem from the East when 
Christ was born (Matthew 2. 1). Christians say that these sages 
were Magis, belonging to the Iranian religion, and not from 
India. But whatever is said, the meaning is the same. Because, 
history clearly tells us that long before this date. Buddhism had 
spread to Kashmir and Kabul, and that it had travelled to the East 
of Europe as far as Iran and Turkey. Besides, Plutarch himself 
has clearly recorded * that a monk from India used to come every 

* See Plutarch’s Morals—Theosojihical Essays, translated by 
C. N. King (George Bull & Sons), pp, 96 and 97. There is a 
reference in the Mahavarhsa written in the Pali language (29, 39) to 
a Greek, that is, yavana town named Alasonda ( yona-nagara ’lasanda) ; 
and it is stated there that some years before the Christian era, while the 
work of building a temple was going on in Ceylon, many Buddhist 
monks had gone from that jdace to Ceylon for the celebration. The 
English translator of the Mahavarhsa says that a town named 
Alosanda established by Alexander in Kabul is meant in this 
place, and not Alexandria in Egypt. But this is not correct ; 
because, this small place would not have been referred to by anybody 
as a city of yavanae. Besides, the stone inscription of Asoka 
mentioned above, itself contains a clear reference to Buddhist monks 
having been sent to the kingdom of the yavami. 



VII - The GITA and the CHRISTIAN BIBLE 829 


■year to the shore of the Red Sea, that is to say, scinewhere near 
Alexandria during the life of Christ. In short, t rere is now no 
doubt whatsoever that Buddhist monks had started entering 
Jewish countries two or three hundred years befor j Christ; and 
once the fact of this intercourse is admitted, it naturally 
follows that Buddhism was principally respon-dble for the 
renunciatory Esi religion, and later on, for the renunciatory 
and devotional Christian religion finding entry into the 
Jewish countries. The English writer .Lilly has drawn this 
very inference; and he has mentioned in his hooic the similar 
opinions of the French scholars E'lnile Bournoulf and Rosni in 
support of his opinion * ; and I’rof. Sedan, who was the 
Professor of Philosophy at Leipzig University in Germany, 
has also expros.sed the same opinion in his books or: this subject. 
The German Professor Schroeder has said in one of his Essays 
that the Christian religion is not exactly similar t) Buddhism ; 
that, though tluire may be a similarity between the two in some 
matters, there i.s a groat deal of dissimilarity in other matters; 
and that, thereft^re, the opinion that the Christian religion was 
derived from the Buddhistic religion cannot be accepted. But, 
as this statement is irrelevant, it does not carry any weight 
whatsoever. It is nobody’s case that the Christian and 
Buddhistic religions are similar to each other in ill respects; 
because, if such were the case, nobody would ha^"e said that 
these two religions are different from each other. The principal 
question is, what was the reason for the renunciatory devotional 
Christian religion being promulgated a.s an imp •ovoment on 
the fundamentally purely Activistic Jewish religion; and 
when one thinks of the history of the Buddhist religion, which 
was undoubtedly more ancient than the Christian religion, it 
does not appear liistorically logical to say that the renunciatory 
principles of Ethics and Devotion in Christi.inity were 
discovered by Clirist independently. There is no information 
to be found in the Bible as to what Christ was doing from the 
12th to the 3()th year of His life, or where He was during that 
period. And it is quite clear that He must have spent this 
time in the acquisition of knowledge, in religious meditation, 
and in travol. Therefore, it is impossible to sa:' definitely 
* See Lilly’s Buddha and Buddhinm pp. 158 fi. 






830 


gita-rahasya or karma-yoga 


that He could not have come into contact, directly or indirectly, 
with Buddhist monks during this period of His-life; because, 
the activities of Buddhist monks had at that date gone as far 
as Greece. There is a dear statement in a book to be found 
in a Buddhist monastary in Nepal that Jesus Christ had at 
that time come to India, and that He there acquired the 
knowledge of Buddhi.sm, This book was found by a Russian 
named Nicholas Notovisch, and he published a translation of 
it into the French language in 1894. Many Christian ,scholar,s 
say, that though the translation of Notovisch may be correct, 
the original book itself is a fraud written by some one; and I 
too am not very emxihatic on the position that these scholars 
should accept that book as authentic. Whether the book found 
by Notovisch was relial)]e or not, it will be quite clear from 
the dissertati(.)n made by me above that, from the purely liistorical 
point of view, it was not impossible, at least for the 
disciples of Christ who wrote His life in the New Testament, 
if not for Christ Himself, to have become acquainted with 
Buddhism; and if this position is not improbable, it does not 
appear logical to say that the strange similarity to be found 
between the lives or the preachings of Christ and Buddha, was 
something which came into existence independently In short, 
the purely ritualistic path of the Mimarhsaka.s, the Knowledge- 
Action (M/'s/carmy/a ) path of Janaka and others, the Path of 
Knowledge and Renunciation of the writers Of the Upanisad.s 
and the Samkhya philosophers, the Patanjala Yoga in the shape 
of ‘Concentration of the Mind’, and the Pancaratra or the 
Bhagavata religion, that is, the Philosophy of Devotion, are all 
religious paths which grew originally from the ancient Vedic 
religion. Leaving aside, out of these, the Path of the Knowledge of 
the Brahman, the Path of Energism, and the Path of Devotion, 
Buddha has preached his renunciatory religion to the four castes 
on the basis of the philosophy of (i) Yoga in the form 
of ‘Concentration of the Mind’, and (ii) Karma-Sarfanyasa 


* The same is the opitiion of Mr. Rameshchandra Dutt, and 
he has expressed it in detail in his book. See Rameshchandra 
DmWs, History of Civilisation in Ancient India Yol. II, Chapter SX 
iq). 828-340. 





VII - The GiTA AND THE CHRISTIAN BIBLE 831 


<( Abandonment of Action); but the supporters and followers of 
Buddha, later on added to his religion the principles of Devotion 
and of Desireless Action, and spread this reformed Buddhistic 
religion on all sides. After the Buddhistic religirnhad in this 
way spread everywhere at the date of Asoka, tb( principles of 
RGnunciaiion began to find a way into the pu -ely Activistic 
Jewish religion; and Christ ultimately added to it the Philosophy 
of Devotion, and established His own religion. V/hen one gives 
proper wtight to this gradual growth, which is established by 
historical facts, one comes to the definite concl ision that far 
from the Gita having taken .something from the Christian 
religion, us suggested by Dr. Laurincer, there i.s a very strong 
probability, and almost a certainty, that the principles of Self- 
Identification, Renunciation, Non-Enmity, and l evotion, to be 
found in the New Testament of the Hiblo, must have been taken 
into the Christian religion from Buddhism, and therefore, 
indirectly from the Vodic religion; and that, Indians had no 
need to look to other people for finding tliese religious principles* 
I have in this way consid^sred the seven (luestmiis mentioned 
by me at the beginning of this .Vppendix. Other important 
questions such as, what was the effect of the Bhagtivadglta on the 
Path of Diivotion now followed in India etc., arise in the train 
of these questions. But, instead of saying that these questions 
have a bearing on the Gita, (jne mirst say that the;r deal with the 
ancient history of the Hindu religion. For this reason, and 
principally because this Appendix has been lengthened out 
beyond my expectations, although 1 have attempted to make it 
iis shoi-t as possible, I shall now iinish this External Examination 
of the Gitu. 




THE ORIGINAL STANZAS 
OF THE 

t . . 

QiTn 


WITH 


TRANSLATION and COMMENTARY, 




AUTHOR’S PRES’ACE. 


I ]iavc exjjlained in detail in the various cliapters of the 
Gita-Rahasya, that (i) the highest benefit of evei-y human l)eing 
in this woi'ld and in the next, lies in first acqur-ing as much 
Equability of Reason () as [wssible by k nowledge and 
Eaith, but witlial and principally, by the easy and royal road 
of Devotion, and thereafter doing his duties till death, desire- 
lessly, according to his own religion, in tiie interests of 
universal welfare; that (ii) it is not necessary, to give up 
Action or to practise any religions austerities for attaining 
Release; and that (iii) this is the sum and sulstance of the 
Gita-Religion. In the saiuo way, I have shown in the fourteenth 
chapter of this hook the clear continuity of the eighteen 
chapters <d' the Gita from this point of vieyq as also wiiich 
parts of the other methods of attaining Releese have been 
included in the Activistic religion of the Gita, and how. When 
tlio wliole matter lias been thrasliod out in this way, there 
remains really nothing to be doni? beyond giving the plain 
translation, of the stanzas in the Gita, according to my 
rendering of them, in their projicr order, in the Marathi 
vernacular. I!ut, it was not possible for me t( show in the 
general Exposition in the G it.a-Raha,sya how the subject-matter 
of each, chapter of the Gita has been divided, or how commen¬ 
tator's have 'Stretched the meanings of certain words in the 
itanzas f'ji- supporting their particular doctriu'i. Therefore, 
taking botli these matters into consideration, f h ive thought it 
necessary to give some note.s, in the shape of a commentary, 
immediately after the translation of each stanza, in order that 
the prior and subsequent context should be understood on the 
spot. .Nevertheless, in these commentaries, I have only touched 
in passing on those matters, which have been fully dealt with 
in the Gltii-Rahasya, and I have given the reference to the parti¬ 
cular chajiter of the Glta-Rahasya in which that particular 
subject-maiter has been dealt with. In order io enable the 
reader to distinguish these commentaries from the original 
matter, I have enclosed them within square brackets, thus, I ], 



836 


GiTA-RAHASYA OR KARMA-YOGA 


and put a dotted line by the side. * I have translated the stanzas 
as far as possible literally, and in several places I have retained 
the original word in the translation, and given after it its 
meaning in Marathi, saying ‘ that is, so and so ’; t and I have 
thus included in the translation itself, what would otherwise 
have to be given as small foot-notes. Even though this has been 
done, it has also become necessary to add some words here and 
there in the translation, in order to give the complete meaning of 
the original Sanskrit stanza in Marathi, on account of the differ¬ 
ence between the Sanskrit and the Marathi idiom; and very often, 
the word used in the original has also to be given in the translation 
by way of reference. In order to distinguish these additional 
words, I have placed them within round brackets, thus, ( ). 

In Sanskrit books, the number of the stanza is always given at 
the end. But, in the translation I have given it in the beginning. 
So that, if some one wants to find out the translation of a particular 
stanza, he must refer to what follows the figure showing the 
number of the stanza. I have arranged the translation in such 
a way that, if one reads only the translation, omitting the 
commentaries, there is no break in the sense. Similarity, where a 
sentence has been finished in the original in more than one 
stanza, I have completed its purport in the translation of the 
same number of stanzas. Therefore, the translation of some of 
the stanzas has to be read in continuity. Where such stanzas 
occur, I have not placed a full stop at the end of the translation 
of the stanza. Still, it must not be forgotten that a translation 
will be a translation in any case. It is true that I have attempted 
to bring out the plain, broad, and principal meaning of the Gita 
in the translation; yet, it is impossible to transport into the 
translation, by means of other words, and just as it is, the power 
of metaphorically creating numerous figurative meanings, which 
exists in Sanskrit words, and especially in the loving, sweet, and 

* Instead of using a dotted margin for distinguishing the 
commentary, as was done by the author, I have made the distinction 
by putting the commentary within square brackets, and using a 
different type—Translator. 

f This, too, hns been placed by me within round brackets, 
thus, ( ), though in the original author’s text, it is not within 

bracke ts—^Tran s. 



AUTHOR’S PREFACE 


837 


exhaustive speech of the Blessed Lord, “giving new pleasures 
at every step”. Evidently, one who merely reads the 
Marathi translation cannot make a metaphori( al use of the 
stanzas in the Gita on various occasions, as can be done by 
a person who understands the Sanskrit language. Nay, there 
is very often a chance of such a person making mistakes. It 
is, therefore, my earnest entreaty to everybody that, whoever 
can do so, should not fail to study the original Clii.a in Sanskrit; 
and that is one of the reasons why I ha\ e given the 
original stanza side by side with the translation. In order 
that it should be convenient to grasp the subject-i natter of each 
chapter of the Gita, I have given separately, in the beginning, 
the contents .showing all these subjects, according to stanzas, 
and in the order of the chapters, on the basis of the groups 
of sections adopted in the Vedanta-Sfitras. If one does not 
read each stanza separately, but reads the groups of stanzas 
as a whole by reference to this index, the present misunderstand¬ 
ing about the import of the Gita will to a considerable extent 
bo reduced; because, the different meanings of some stanzas 
which have been given by doctrimvsupporting commentators, 
who have stretched the meaning of the stanzas for proving 
their doctrines, have been usually given, disregarding this 
previous and subsequent context. (For example see my com¬ 
mentary on Gl, 3, 19; 6. 3; and 18. 3). Considering the matter 
from this point of view, it may well be said that this translation 
of the Gita and the Glta-Rahasya are jnutually ctmplementary. 
And he who wishes to fully understand what I want to say, 
must read both these parts. As it is usual to learn by heart 
the wliole of the Gita, one does not come across important 
variant readings in it. Nevertheless, I must state here that 
I have accepted as genuine the text of the Gita as given in the 
Samkarabhasya, which is the most ancient of Bhasyas on the 
Gita now available. 



Detailed contents showing the subjects mentioned 
in the various chapters of the Gita, according 
to the stanzas. 

Note :—The divisions of the various subjects in the different 
chapters of the Gita, which have been made in these contents 
according to the stanzas, have been shown in the original 
stanzas printed further on by the sign printed at the begin¬ 
ning of the stanza ; and, in the translation, a separate paragraph 
has been started from that stanza. 

CHAPTER I—ARJUNA-VISADA YOGA. 

(The Yoga of the Dejection of Arjuna). 

1. The question of Dhrtarastra to Sanjaya. 2-11. The 
description given by Duryodhana to Dronacarya of the armies 
on either side. 12—19. The blowing of conches by way of 
greetings to each other in the beginning of the war. 20-27. 
The survey of the array after the chariot of Arjuna has been 
brought forward. 28-37. The dejection of Arjuna at seeing his 
own relatives in both the armies, and realising that the 
generation will become extinct by their being killed. 38-44. 
The results of sins like extinction of the kiila (family). 45-47. 
The decision of Arjuna not to fight, and his throwing away his 
how and arrows. 

CHAPTER H—SAMKHYA YOGA. 

(The Yoga according to the Saihkhya system). 

1-3. The encouragement given by Sri Krsna. 4-10. The 
reply of Arjuna, his doubt as to his own duty, and his surrender¬ 
ing himself to Sri Krsna for an elucidation of what his dhurma 
(duty) was. 11-13. The non-lamentabiiity of the Atman. 14-15. 
The inconstancy of the Body ; and, of pain and happiness. 16-25. 
The discernment between the Real (sat) and the Unreal (amt), and 
the justification of the non-lamentability of the Atman by the 
description of the immortality, and other features, of the Atman. 
26, 27. The reply, on the basis of the immortality of the 
Atman. 28. The inconstaHcy and non-lamentability of the 
perceptible creation according to the Sarhkhya system. 29, 30. 
It is true that the Atman is difficult to Realise, but you .should 



CONTENTS OF THE SUBJECTS IN THE GITA 839 


acquire true Knowledge, and give up lamentation. 31-38„ 
The nocensity of warfare according to the rdigion of the 
Ksatriya.s, 39. The conclusion of the argument on the basis 
of the Samkliya system, and the l)eginning of the argument 
on th<! bitsis of Karma-Yoga. 40. Even a little observance 
of Karm.'i-Yoga Is beneficial. 44. The steidying of the 
Discerning ( vijaraHut/ufiiiika) Iteason. 42-44. A descriptioTi 
of the unsteadiness of Mind of the followers of the Mimamsa 
school, who aj'e engrossed in the K arma-kanda (ritual). 45, 46. 
The advice t(.i perform Action with a steady ai d concentrated 
i noiUKtha) Ihiason. 47, 'L'he four canons {(;alu;i~su/ri) of the 
Karma-Ycga. 48-50. The nature of Karma-Yoga, and the 
superiority of the Reason of the Doer ( kartn) o^'er the Action 
(kartm). 51-53. Rclca.se, by following the Karma-Yoga. 54-70 
A dcscriptjion of the ((ualitio.s of t!ie Stliitaprajim in reply to 
the question of Arjuna., inclnditig, as occa,sii.m arises, a des¬ 
cription ol' the growth of Desire ( kUtna ), Anger ( krodha ), and 
other emotjons, as a result of Attachment ( nsakli) to the objects 
of pleasure. 71,72. The Brrihmi .state. 

CHARTER lll-KARMA-YOGA, 

(The Yoga of Right Action ). 

1, 2. “Should Action (ritual) be abandoned or performed; 
what is the truth?”, being the((noBtion askedby A'juna. 3-8. The 
definite advice to Arjuna tluit, although there are the two i)ath.s 
( niMhu), (i) Saihkhya {kiinmi-iMininiitim or Abandonment of 
Action ) and (ii) Karma-Yoga, yet, as nobody car escape Karma 
( Action ), Karma-Yirga is superior, and the path to he followed. 
9-16, The advice to perform even the sacrificial ritual of the 
Mimamsa school after abandoning Attachment; t le antiquity of 
the Yajna-oakra (cycle of sacrificial ritual), and ihe necessity of 
it, for the continuance and maintetiance of the wcrld. 17-19. In 
as much as the Jnaiiin (one wdio has acquired K nowledge) has 
no more any self-interest left, he must peri'orm all Action, 
which befalls him, with a disinterested, that is, desireless frame 
of mind; because, no one can escape Karma (action or ritual). 
20-24. I’be illustration of Janaka and others ; jhe importance 
of universal welfare (lokawrKjrahit), and the illustration of the 
Blessed laird Himself. 25-29. 'Ihe difference between the 




840 


GlTA-RAHASYA OB KARMA-YOGA 


Actions of the Jnaniii and the Ajnanin (one who is ignorant); and, 
the necessity for one, who has acquired Knowledge, to give an 
illustration of righteous action, to the one who has not acquired 
Knowledge, by his own conduct in performing Action desire- 
lessly. 30. The advice to Arjuna to perform warfare like a 
Jhanin, that is, with the intention of dedicating it to the 
Paramesvara, 31, 32. The result of performingAction, by B’aith, 
according to this advice of the Blessed Lord, and of not 
doing so. 33, 34. The overpowering influence of Prakrti, and 
the control of the organs. 35. The Desireless Action to be 
performed, should be according to the duty prescribed for the 
doer, even if one meets his death in the performance of such 
Action. 36-41. Desire (kunia) compels a man to commit sin 
in spite of his Will; and, the destruction of that Desire by the 
•control of the organs. 42, 43. The order of superiority among 
the organs; and, the control of the organs by means of the 
Knowledge of the Atman. 

CHAPTER IV—JSANA-KARMA-S.AMNYASA YOGA. 

( The Yoga of Jnana, and Abandonment of Action). 

1-3. The doctrinal tradition of Karma-Yoga. 4-8, An 
explanation of why, when, and how the Paramesvara, Who is 
free from birth, takes transcendental births or incarnations by 
Maya. 9,10. Reincarnation is escaped from, and the Blessed 
Lord is reached, by understanding the principle underlying these 
transcendental births and Karina. 11, 12. If the worship is 
performed in some other way, the JTuit obtained, is relative 
to the worship; e. g. worship of deities for obtaining Fruit 
relating to this life. 13-15. The unbinding {nirlepa) Action of 
the Blessed Lord relating to the four castes; the destruction 
of the bond of Action by understanding the underlying 
principle; and the advice to perform Action (Icarrm) accordingly. ' 
16-23. The difference between ‘ Icarma' (Action), ‘ akarma' 
(Non-Action), and ‘ vikarma’ (Wrong Action); akarma means 
unattached-Action; that, is the correct Karma; and, the bond 
of Karma is destroyed only by such Action. 24-33. Description 
of various kinds of Metaphorical Yajnas (sacrifices); and the 
superiority of the Sacrifice performed with the ‘ brahma-buddhi ’; 
that is, of the Jnana-Yajna ’. 34-37. Advice about -Knowledge 






CONTENTS OF THE SUBJECTS IN THE GITA 841 


'from one who has acquired Knowledge; Self-Identification ; and, 
the annihilation of sin or merit hy Knowledge. 38-40. The 
means of acquiring Knowledge; hiuklhi (-Yoga) and sraddhu 
(Faith); ruin, in the absence of these. 41, 42. A description of 
the individual uses of (Karma ) Yoga and Jnana (Knowledge), 
and the advice to engage in warfare with the help of both. 

CHAPT RR V—S.AMN YASA-YOG A . 

(The Yoga of Renunciation). 

The direct question of Arjuna whether Sarin yasa (Renun¬ 
ciation) or Karma-Yoga is superior. The definite answer of the 
Blessed Lord, that though both lead to Release, F arma-Yoga is 
superior. 3'6. By giving up Desire, the Karma-^rngin becomes 
a rutya-mihni/UHin {a perpetual a.scetic); and Sairnyasa (renun¬ 
ciation) itself is not successful without Karma (Action); 
therefore, iioth are the same in principle. 7-13. As the mind 
of the Karma-Yogin is always in a state of Ren inciation and 
his Actions are only the actions of the organs, he is always 
unattached, peaceful, and Released. 14, 15. The real Activity, 
and Enjoyment is of Matter {prakrli), but an a result of 
ignorance, it is supposed to be that of the Atman or of the 
Paramesva:i.'a. 16, 17. Release from re-birth as a result of the 
annihilation of this ignorance. 18- 23. A descr iption of the 
Equability of vision, the steadiness of the Rea,son, and the 
indifference towards pain or happiness, resulting from 
'hrahinajfidna (Knowledge of the Brahman). 24-28. The 
Karma-Yogiii is alway.s hrahina-bhutu (merged in t le Brahman), 
^ainadJ/islha (mentally absorbed) and mulda (Released) in this 
very life, though he may be performing Action for the benefit 
of the entire creation. 2i). The result of Realising that the 
Paramesvara is the recipient of all Yajfia (sacrificial ritual) and 
lapa (austerities), (though He does not take on Himself the 
Doership), and that He is the friend of the whole cre ation. 

CHAPTER VI—DHYANA-YOGA. 

( The Yoga of Meditation ). 

1, 2. 'I'he one who perf’orms Action without entertaining 
any Hope of Fruit (jp/ia/usd) is the true Sarhnyasin or Yogin; 




842 


GITA-RAHASYA OR KARMA-YOGA 


‘Samnyasin’ does not mean one who is niragni (one who does 
not perform Fire-Worship, or other ritualistic Action), and akriija 
(one who performs no Action at all). 3,4, The mutual interchange 
of of karija (Result), and karana (Cause) of sairia (Abandonment) 
and karma (Action) in the \%ddhumsthu' (perfect state), and 
the mdhandvuntha (preparatory stage) of the Karma-Yogin; andr 
the characteristic feature of the Yogarudha ((me who is 
installed in Yoga). 5, 6. The freedom of the Atman to .success¬ 
fully acquire Yoga. 7-9. Even among the jiM!inan-ijoganukla 
(those who have conquered Self and are steeped in Yoga), the 
one who ha,s attained Ecjnahility (.tf Rsa.son is the best. 10-17. 
A. description of the bodily posture.s {umnu), and food, and 
recreation, necessary for ijoga-sudhtma (the successful practice 
of Yoga). 18-23. A description of the Yogin, and of the beatific 
happiness of the yoija-minUiUil (mental absorption resulting 
from Yoga). 24-26. How to gradually make the Mind, Absorbed 
(mmudlmlha), Peaceful (suniu), and Self-devoted [dhuani^tha). 
27, 28. The Yogin alone is 'M erged in the Brahman’ {bmhinabhuta) 
and intensely happy. 29-32. The Self-Identification of the 
Yogin with the entire creation, 33-36. The control of the restless 
Mind by Practice (abliijasa), and by Indifference to worldly affairs 
(vairagya). 37-45. A description of how the yoga-bhrasta (one 
who has abandoned the practice of Karma-Yoga), or the jijnam 
(one who has got the desire to understand what the Karma- 
Yoga is) acquires growing merit, birth after birth, and ultimately 
complete Release, given in reply to the question of Arjuna. 46, 47. 
The Karma-Yogins, and among them those who are Devout, 
are better than the tapusuins (those who perform religious 
austerities), the Jnanins (the scients), and mere Karmins (those 
who merely perform Action or Ritual); and, the advice to Arjuna 
to become a (Karma-) Yogin. 

CHAPTER VII—TNAHA-VUNANA YOGA. 

(The Yoga of Spiritual and Worldly Knowledge). 

1—3. The beginning of the disquisition on Jnana (Spiritual 
Knowledge) and Vijnana (worldly knowledge), for the attainment 
of Karma-Yoga; the rarity of persons who make an effort to 
attain Karma-Yoga. 4-7, Consideration of the km?'a 
(perishable) and the afcwa (imperishable); the eight-fold 





C.'ONTENTS OF THE SUBJECTS IN THE GITA 843 


a^mrci-'prakrU (inferior material manifestation), and the ( ixira- 
prakrti (superior material tuanifestation), in the shape of Jiva, of 
the Blessed liOrd; and the further development of everything 
out of it. 8-13. A brief survey of the form of tha Paramesvara, 
■which pervades the sattvika (equable) and other divisions of that 
development, 13-15, This is the qualityful (pivanutyi) and 
insuperable (diis/aru) Maya (Illusion) of the Paramesvara; and 
the overcoming of that Maya by surrendering oneself to the 
Paramesvara. 16-19, Devotees are of four k nds; and the 
Jiianin is the most superior among them. The completion of 
Jnana (Knowledge) after innumerable births, and the permanent 
fruit in the shape of assimilation with the Blessed l^ord, 
20-33. Tlie wor.ship of deities in the hope t)f obtaining non¬ 
permanent ob.iects of Desire; but even there, th( Blessed Lord 
wields the power to give fruit or benefit according to one’s Faith 
in the Blessed Lord. 34-38. The real form of tht Blessed Lord 
is imijerceptible (atyakia); but that form becomes difficult of 
Realisation on account of ‘ Maya ’ (Illusion); the mental 
confusion about the couples of oj)posites (dvu/hclm); and the 
Realisation of the true form of the Paramosvara by the 
destruction of the confusion created by Maya. 39, 30. Ultimate 
Acquisition of Knowledge by Realising that the Brahman, the 
adhijdtnui (Ah,solute Self), karma (Action), tie udhi-bhUfu 
(absolute Matter), ad/it-cfaim (the highest Deity), and adhi-yajria 
(the highest sacrifice) are all Parame.svara. 

CHAPTER VIII—AKSARA-BRAHMA YOGA. 

(The Yoga of the Imperishable Brahjn.in) 

1-4. The definitions of the terms 'brahma', 'adhyabm', 
'udhi-bhutu', 'adhi-daira', '’adhi-tjajTui, and 'adld-dehiC, in reply to the 
question of Arjuna; all of the.se contain the same Isvara. 5-8. 
Release by thinking of the Blessed Lord at the moment of 
death; but, that which is always in the mind, is also in the mind 
at the moment of death; therefore, the advice to always think 
of the Blessed Lord; and, to fight. 9“13. The concentrated 
meditation on the Om-kara, that is, on the Parami3svara at the 
moment of death; and the result of it. 14-16, The annihilation 
of re-birth as a result of constant thinking of the Ble.ssed Lord, 
the states of Brahma-loka etc., are not permanent, 17-19. The 





844 


aiTA-RAHASYA OB KARMA-YOGA 


day and night of Brahmadeva, the creation of the Cosmos from 
the Imperceptible in the beginning of his day, and the merging 
of it, in that same Imperceptible, in the beginning of his night. 
20-22. The Imperceptible (avyakta) and Imperishable (alcsara) 
Spirit ( purusa) is even beyond that Imperceptible; the possibility 
of attaining the Ultimate Imperceptible, by means of Devotion; 
and, the end of re-birth as a result of such attainment. 23-26. 
The paths of Devayana and Pitryana; the first puts an end to 
re-hirth, the second is just the opposite. 27-28. The result which 
is obtained by the Yogin who understands the principle 
underlying these two paths is the highest, and therefore, the 
advice to act accordingly. 

CHAPTER IX—RAJAVIDYA-RAJAGUHYA YOGA. 

<The Yoga of the ‘King of Cults’ and the ‘King of Mysticisms’), 

1-3. The Path of Devotion, which includes Spiritual 
Knowledge (jrlaria) and Worldly Knowledge {vijnam), is 
productive of Release and is nevertheless easy and realisable; 
therefore, it is the King of Paths (ruja-marga). 4-6. The 
unintelligible Yogic activity of the Paramesvara; being in the 
entire creation. He is nevertheless, not in it; and the entire 
creation being in Him, is yet not in Him. 7-10, He makes use 
of the illusory Prakrti for the construction and destruction of 
the Cosmos, and the creation and destruction of created beings 
(bhuta); and in spite of all this. He is untouched by Desire, that 
is to say. Unattached (alipta). 11,12. Those who do not realise 
this, and defy the Paramesvara, Who has taken a hmuan form, 
are fools, and Uauri (ungodly). 13-15. On the other hand, those 
who go in for various other devotional practices by means of 
the Jnana-yajna are daivi (godly). 16-19. The Isvara is All- 
pervading, and He is the parent, the owner, and the maintainer 
of the universe, and the doer of whatever is good or bad. 20-22. 
Although the paraphernalia of Yajnas and Yagas according to 
the Srutis may be productive of heaven, yet, that fruit is 
non-permanent; if it is said that the same is necessary for 
‘ yoga-kmna' (maintenance and protection), then, that can be 
obtained even by Devotion. 23-25. Devotion to other 
deities is indirectly Devotion to the Paramesvara, but the 
fruit is consistent with the deity and the mental belief, 26. If 



CONt:I!;NTS of the BUBJEGTS in the GJITA S45 


there is Devotion, the Parainesvarn is satisfied even by the 
oft’eriiig of a petal of a flower. 27, 28. The advice 1o dedicate all 
acts to the Ls'vara; escape from the bonds of Karma, and Release 
by doing so. 29-33. The Paramesvara is equal to all; whether 
one is a sinner, or born in a low caste, or a woman, a Vaisya, 
or a Sudra, all attain the same end, if they become unlimited 
Devotees. 34. The advice to Ai-juna to adopt this path. 

CHAPTER X. VIBHUTI-YOGA. 

(The Yoga of Manifo.stations) 

1-3. The destruction of sin by realising thi t the unborn 
Paramesvara is prior to the gods and the Rsis. 4-(.. Manifesta¬ 
tions of the isvara, and Yoga; the origin of .Reason (/radd/ri), 
and other (jualities (h/iarn), the origin of the seven Rsis and of 
Manu, and of everything in order of succe,ssion frem the Isvara. 
7-11. The Acquisition of Knowledge by the Devotees of the 
Blessed .Lord, who have Realised this; but to thestHoo, ‘buddhi- 
s-iddhi' (the success of hiiddhi) is given by tht3 Blessed Lord. 
12-18. The reipiest of Arjuna to the Blessed Lord to describe to 
him, His manifestations and Yoga. 19-40. A description of the 
most important out of the innumerable raanifeslations of the 
Blessed Lord. 41, 42. All that which i.s ‘/vYdoid'/nar (manifested), 

■ sri-ma/’(illustrious) and ‘///-j/Vn ’ (elevated) is the effulgence of 
the Paramesvara, hut only in part. 

CHAPTER XI—VISVA-BUPA-DARSAISIA YOGA, 

(The Yoga of the Showing of the Cosmic 1 'orm) 

1-4. '[’hc! request of Arjuna to the Blessed Lord to show to 
him His Isvaric form, as described in the previoi s chapter. 5-8. 
The giving to Arjuna of transcendental vision to enable him to 
see this wonderful and transcendental form 9-14. The 
de.scription of the Cosmic Form {visra-ra/ia) by Hinjaya. 15-31. 
The praise of the Cosmic Form by Arjuna, who had become 
humble as a result of surprise and terror; and, his request to the 
Cosmic Fonn-ed Tmrd to become pr(.>i)itiou8 and explain who He 
was. 32-34. The reply that: “I am‘Time’or ‘I)eath’ (/«//«)”; 
and the encouraging advice to Arjuna to become tlie instrument 
for killing those w'arriors, who had already become engulfed in 



846 GITA-RAHASYA OR KARMA-YOGA 


that ‘Time’ or ‘Death’, The praise, the beseeching for for¬ 
giveness, and the request to resume the former form made by 
Arjuna to the Cosmic h’orm-ed Lord. 47-51, Impossibility of 
visualising the Cosmic Form otherwise than by exclusive 
worship; resuming by the Blessed I,iord of His former form. 
52-54, A vision of the Cosmic Form impossible even to gods in 
the absence of Devotion, 55, Therefore, the final advice, in the 
form of a general summary, to Arjuna to perform Action after 
becoming ‘ ■iuhsah(/u ’ (unattached) and ‘ nirvaira ’ (non-inimical), 
with the intention of dedicating everything to the Paramesvara. 

CHAPTER Xn—BHAKTI-YOGA, 

(The Yoga of Devotion) 

1, The question of Arjuna, with reference to the summari¬ 
sing advice given at the end of the last chapter, as to whether 
the ‘ worship of the Perceptible ’ {ruakfopumna), ov, the ‘wonship 
of the Imperceptible’ (aiwiktopUmna) was superior, ‘2-8, The 
end of both is the same; but, the worship of the Imperceptible is 
arduous, whereas, the worship of the Perceptible is easy and 
speedily successful; the advice, thefefore, to worship the 
Perceptible with a desireless frame of mind. 9-12, The various 
devices, such as. Practice (ahhijasa), Knowledge (jflUna), 
Meditation (dhuava) etc., for concentrating one’s attention 
on the Blessed Lord; and the best path, in any ca,se, is the 
‘Abandonment of the Fruit of Action’ { karma-phaladyaya). 
13-19. A description of the mental condition of the Devotee 
and the love of the Blessed Lord for him. 20. Those believing 
Devotees, who live according to this religion, are most beloved 
of the Blessed Lord, 

CHAPTER XIII—KSETRA-KSETRAJNA-VIBHAGA YOGA 

(The Yoga of the Division of the Cosmos into the 
Body and the Atman) 

1,2, Definitions of the terms 'ksetva' and ''ksetrajna'; 
acquaintance with them, means acquaintance with the 
Paramesvara. 3, 4. The consideration of the Body ( ksetra ) and 
the Atman {ksetrajna) according to the Upanisads, and according 
to the Brahma-Sutras. 5, 6, The nature of the form of the Body. 
7-11. The nature of the form of Knowledge {jnana); the 



CONTENTS OF THE SUBJECTS IN THE GiTA 847 


opposite of it, that is, Ignorance (ajilaiia). 12-17 The nature 
of the form of the Knowable (Jtwm). 18. The result of Realising 
all this. 19-21. The consideration of Matter (prakrti) and 
Spirit ipiirum). Prakrti is the active agent, and Purusa is 
inactive, hut is the one who deriv'es the benefit, sees, etc. 
22, 23. The Purusa is the Parainatman within the Body; 
the end '.f re-birth as a result of the Idealisation of 
this Prakrti and Purusa. 24, 25, The ways of acquiring the 
KnowledgiD of the iVtman, namely, meditation (dhumm), the 
Sarnkhya-’ih)g;i, the Karma-Yoga, -ind Devotion by hearing 
sermons with a believing frame of mind. 26-28. The birth of 
the jiiuvealdo and immoveable creation from the union between 
the Body and the Atman; that which Is imperishable in it, is 
the Paramesvara; reaching the Paramesvara by one's own 
efforts. 29, 30. Prakrti is the active agent, 'ihe Atman is 
inactive; all created things are contained in One, and they all 
spring from One; attainment of the Brahman by Realising this. 
31-33. The Atman is eternal and <|ualityless, tl at is to say, 
though it enliglitcns the Body, it is unattached (■nirlepa). 34, 
The highest Perfection as a result of Realising this difference 
between the Body and the Atman. 

CHAPTER XIV—GUNATRAYA-VIBHAGA YOGA. 

(The Yoga of the division of Matter into three cc nstituents.) 

1, 2. A consideration of the diver,sity of created beings 
included in Sj)iritual Knowledge and Worldly Knowledge, 
having regard to the different constituents; this tot is productive 
of Release, 3, 4. The ParameWara is the father tf all created 
beings; and, Prakrti, which is dependent on the Paramesvara, 
is their mtithor. 5-9. The influence of the saftia, rajas, and 
tanuis consliitiients oil the created universe. 10-13. Irnpo.ssibility 
of tliere being only one constituent; the growth of the third 
constituent by the defeat of the other two; and, ihe nature of 
the growth of each. 14-18. The result of Action, according to 
the predominance of any particular constituent, and the state 
whicii is obtained after death. 19-20. The ai.tainmeiit of 
Release by going beyond the three constituents. 21-25. A 
description of the nature and the mode of iviiig of the 
Trigunatita (one who has gone beyond the three constituents) 





848 


GITA-RAHASYA OB KARMA-YOGA 


given in answer to the question of Arjuna. 36, 27. The acquiring 
of the Trigunatita state by solitudinal (ekantika) Devotion, and 
the attainment thereafter of the Paraniesvara, Who is the 
ultimate resolution of all Release, all religion, and all 
happiness. 

CHAPTER XV—PURUSOTTAMA-YOGA. 

(The Yoga of the most Excellent Spirit). 

1, 3. The similarity between the Vedic and the Sarakhya 
descriptions of the Go.smic Tree {bruhnia-vrksa) in the form of 
the ‘ aivattha ' (pippala) tree. 3-6. The'cutting of that tree by 
‘ asanga' (unattachment) is the only way for the attainment of 
the Immutable State {avuaga-jxula), which is beyond it; a 
description of thi.s Immutable State. 7-11, The forms of the 
‘jiva’ and the 'linga-Sarlm' (Subtle Body), and their mutual 
relationship, which can bo realised l>y scients. 12-15. The 
all-pervasiveness of the Paramesvara. 16-18. The nature of the 
/csara (perishable) and the aksam (imperishable); the Purusottama 
is beyond both. 19, 20. By the Relisation of this jnystic 
Purusottama, one acquires All-Knowledge {mnajnata) and 
Acciomplishment {krlakrtijttfd). 

CHAPTER XVI—DAI VASURA-SAMPAT-VIBHAGA YOGA. 
(The Yoga of the division into godly and ungodly endowment), 

1-3. The 26 qualitius of godly (daid) endowment. 4. The 
nature of ungodly {dsiiri) endowment. 5, Godly endowment is 
productive of Release, and ungodly endowment is productive of 
bondage. 6-20. A detailed description of the ungodly; they 
are destined to perdition, birth after birth. 21, 22. The three- 
folded door of Hell—Desire {kUntu), Anger {krodha), and Avarice 
{ld>ha) —bliss, as a result of giving these up. 23, 24. The advice 
to Arjuna to decide about the Doable and the Not-Doable 
consistently with the Sastras, and to act accm-dingly. 

CHAPTER XVII—SRADDHA-TRAYA-VIBHAGA YOGA. 

(The Yoga of the Division into three kinds of Faith) 

1-4. A description of three kinds of Faith, such as, the 
sdttviha etc., according to the inherent nature of Prakrti, in 
reply to the question of Arjuna; as the Faith, so the man. 5, 6 



CCJNl'ENTS OF THE SUBJECTS IN THE GITA 849 


The asara is differant from this. 7-10. The saltv ka, rajasa, and 
lamasa kinds of food. 11-13. The three kinds of Yajna. 14-16. 
The three divisions of Austerity (ta/m) namely, iUrira (bodily), 
vucika (vocal) and inihiam (mental). 17-19. Each of these is 
again of three kinds, by a division according as it is alittviku 
etc. 20-23. The three kinds of gifts, namely, tallrika etc. 23* 
The ‘ bra/n/(n-//jrdo:'Sa ’ (syndiol of the Brahman) ‘OM-TAT-SAT’ 
24-27. Out (jf these, the word OM is indicative oi the beginning 
of Action, the word TAT refer.s to Desireless Action, and the 
word SAl’ refers to Proper Action. 28. That which remains, 
namely, the Unreal {asat), is fruitless, whether in this life or in 
the next. 

CHAPTER XVIH--MOKSA-SAMNYASA YOGA. 

(The Yi)ga of Release by Renunciation ). 

1, 2. The definitions of Saihnyasa (Renu iciation) and 
Tyaga (Abandonment) according to the doctrine of Karma-Yoga 
in reply ti) the question of Arjuna. 3-6. The explanation about 
the eligibility and non-eligibility of Action; oven actions 
(or ritual) like Yajnas and Yagas must be perftrmed, with a 
Desireless frame of mind, just like other Actions. 7-9. 
The sUtIvika, rajasa, and lamasa varieties of Abandonment 
of Action; out of these, performing one’s duty, abandoning 
the Hope of b’ruit (phalaia) is tho only sattvika-tyaga 
(equable Abandoninont). 10, 11. The one vho abandons 

the Fruit of Action is the \saltiika-tyagin' because, no 
one escapes mere Action, 12. The throe-fold I'h'ait of Action 
does not become a source of bondage to the 'sattvika tyagin'. 
13-15. There are live reasons for any Action taking place; 
man is irot the only reason. 16, 17. Therefort;, when a man 
has got rid of tho egotistical feeling {ahamkara-b iddhi) that ‘1 
ani the doer’, he remains unattached, though he performs 
Action. 1819. The three-fold nature of, and the Samkhya form 
of " karma-codana' (the inspiration to perform Action), and 
‘ kaiarut-samjralui’ (the periormance of Action). 20-22. The 
three kinds of Jnana according to the three qualities sdttiika 
etc.; the Realisation that ^avibltaklath vi.hhaktesi<' is sattvika. 
23-25. The three kinds of Karma (Action); of these, that in 
w'hich the Hope for Fruit is absent is sallrika. 26--2S. The three 




rTfT: I I! II 

• I-.- ’■T35?P^?T 'TF^^; II ’vO II Fsrn^Ws^FT II ^ =1 II 3T. 



The sacred haitle-jield of Kuru-Kshetra. 




850 


GiTA-RAHASYA OR KARMA-YOGA 


kinds of Doers ( karta ); the Unattached (nihsaiiga) Doer is 
sathika. 29-32. The three kinds of Reason (huddhi). SO-SS. 
The three kinds of Perseverance (dhrti). 36-39. The three kinds 
of Happiness; that which arises ont of Self-Identification is 
suttvika. 40. The three divisions of the entire universe according 
to different constituents. 41-44. The justification of the four 
castes on the basis of the three different constituents; the 
inherent Actions of Ksatriyas, Vaisyas, and Sudras. 45, 46> 
Ultimate Perfection by doing one’s own duties, as prescribed for 
the four castes. 47-49. liiving according to another’s religion 
is fraught with danger; Action according to one’s own religion, 
though faulty, ought not to be abandoned; and w'hen all Actions 
are done according to one’s own religion (dharina), with a 
desireiess frame of mind, one attains the ' mukaniuja-mldhi’ 
(The Perfection of Desireiess. Action). 50-56. An explanation 
of how this Perfection ( dddlil) is obtained, even after performing 
all Actions. 57, 58. The advice to Arjuna to follow this Path. 
59-63. Individuation ( uhumkura) is helpless before the inherent 
nature of Prakrti; one must surrender one.self to the Isvara; the 
advice to Arjuna that he .should realise this mystic secret, and 
then do whatever he wants, 64-66. The final promise of the 
Blessed Lord that if Arjuna surrendered himself to Him, giving 
up all other Paths of Religion, He would redeem him from all 
sins. 67-69. The benefit to be derived by maintaining the 
tradition of the Path of Karma-Yoga. 70, 71. A description of 
the results thereof, 72, 73. Arjuna becomes ready to fight, 
after the clearing of his doubts as to what he ought to do. 74-78. 
The summing up by Sanjaya after he had told this story to 
Dhrtarastra. 





S'RIMAD BHAGAVADGIl'A 


I 

juw: 'Tru^^rrtm u i n 

CHAPTER I. 

I In tho present Maliabharata, the tradition is to how the 
Gita preached to Arjnna by S'ri Krsna in the beginning of 
th(! Bharati war, was subsequently pronmlgi ted, has been 
described as follows; Bi tho l)eginning of thn war, Vyasa 
went t ) Dlirturastra and said to him, “ If you desire to see 
the war, I will give you your eye-sight ”. * Ih t, Dhrtarastra 
said that lie did not wish to see the destruction of his own 
clan (l-iild). Thereupon, Vyasa gave to a bare (nu/a) named 
Sanjaya such spiritual oye-sight as would mable him to 
actually see everything that w’as taking place on the 
battle-field, while sitting where he as, and made arrange¬ 
ments that he should relate to Dhrtarastra what was 
happening in the war, and then went away. (Ma. Bha. 
Bhlsma. i). When, according to this arrangement, Sanlaya 
first went to give to Dhrtarastra the news of the fall of 
Bhlsma in the war, Dhrtarastra lamented the death of 
Bhisma and comniaiidod Sanjaya to relate to him the entire 
history of the war. Sanjaya has first described the armies 
on both sides, and then .started to recite tho (llta in answer 
to the question of Dhrtarastra. The same hislory was later 
on related by Vyasa to his disciples, and thereafter, by 
Vaisaihpayana, one of those disciples, to .Janamejaya, and 
finally by Sauti to Saunaka; and the Gita is comprised in 
all the printed editions of the Mahabharata, from the 25th 
to the 42 lid chapters of the Bhismaparva. According to 
this tradition—] 

Dhrtarastra said: (1) O Stinjaya, wlial did my sons 

Dhrtarastra was totally blind, having lost both his eyes—Trans. 




852 


GiTA-RAHASYA OR KARMA-YOG A 


§§ ^fT 5 rMiT^rTfT I 

3n^7%’TOIT^?T TniT II ^ II 

'Tiu^'i^roTwr^R jT^ffr i 
-^ fTrfTr II ^ II 

and the sons of Panclu, desirous of war, do, when they 
assembled together, on the sacred held, the Kuruksetra ? 

[The Kuruksetra is an open space of ground surrounding 
the city of Hastinapura. The present city of Delhi stands on 
this field. Kuril, the common ancestor of the Kanrava.s and 
the Pandavas, wa.s ploughing this held lalioriously by his 
own hands. That is why it is calJial ‘ A-schu' (or, field). It 
is said in the Bharata, that, when I ndra thereafter gave 
to Kuril the blessing that all those who would die on that 
field in war or while performing religious austerities, 
would obtain Heaven, Kuru stopped ploughing the field. 
(Ma. Bha, Salya. 53). As a re.sult of this ble.s.sing, this field 
came to be called ‘ <lli<tr)nal>fi<-lrii' or ‘r.acred groundThere 
is also a story that Parasurama killed all the Ksatriyas on 
twenty-one successive occasions on thi;; field, and in that 
way offered a pious oblation to the manes of his deceased 
ancestors (made a ptiT-larinmi ); and there liave been big 
wars, oven in modern times, on tliis field, | 

Sanjaya said : *(2) Thereupon, seeing that the army of 

the Pandavas was (standing) drawn up in l)attle-a^ra^■, the 
prince Duryodhaua went to the Prccejitor (Drona), and said— 
I ft is stated in the chapters of tiie Mahaiiharata liefore 
the Gits that wlien Bhisma had first arranged the 
array of the Kaurava army, the Pandavas, in accordance 
with the rules of war, arranged their army in an array 
( vi/a/w) called the‘Vajra’. (Ma. Bha, Bhi. 19. 4-7; Manu. 

7.191). During the cour.se of the war, these military arrays 
used to be changed every day. ] 

(3) O Acarya! behold this mighty host of the sons of 
Pandu, of wdiich the array has been arranged by your 

* The words ‘ Ulirlarastra said ‘ Bafijayn said ’ etc. have been 
underlined by me, for distinction, though in the author’s text they 
have not been so underlined—Trans. 





GITA, TRANSLATION & COMMENTARY, CHAP. I 853 


^ TTt'SSTRTr I 

Nil5»T?SI JT^R^: ll 8 li 
^S'ftsJsrf^cIT'T: efi4'mn. i 

^r%r^l^W5T3I !T?^*1^T: II II 

f^RcT i 

'#*TEft ^rq%«irsr u ^ n 

3R»Tt% g lyf^igr % f g:^l T^*^ i 

JR RfrT-4 ^ ii ^ ii 

talented pupil, the sou of Dnipiida (Olnstadyumiui), (4) In 
it there are heroes, mighty bowmen, the equals of Bhima 
and Arjuiia in battle, (namely) Y’uyudluna (Satyaki) 
Virata, and the jnahamthi Drupadu, (5) aud Dhrstaketu,. 
Cekitana, and the valiant king of Kasi, Pnru it Kuntibhoja, 
and that eminent man named Saibya, (6i as also the 
heroic Yudhamanyu, and the valiant Uttan auja, and the 
son of Subhadra (Abhimanyii), and the I'fivc) sons of 
Draupadi all of whom arc holders of great chariots. 

[That warrior who conld tight single-hamled with ton 
thousand archers was known as ‘ nuthilruJil', that is, 

‘ holdei' of a great chariot’. A description ha.s been 
given in the 8 chapters (164th to 171st) of the Udyoga- 
parva, stating which warrior in both the armies was 
a ‘ rafhi \ or a ‘ muhdmlhi ’, or an ‘ uHrathl Thi a-e it is stated 
that Dhrstakotn wasthoson of Sisnpfda; similarly, Purujit 
Kuntibhoja. are not the names of two persons. It is 
stated there that Purujit wa.s the legitinuite son of the 
king Kuntibhoja, to whom Kunti had lieni given in 
adoption; that, Kuntilihoja was Ids farrdly-iia ne; and that, 
he was the maternal uncle of Dharma, Bhima and Arjuna 
(Ma. Bha. U. 171. S ). Yudhamanyu and flttarirauja were 
both from the Pancala country, and Cekitana \vas a 
Y'adava. Yudhamanyn and Httamauja were too protectors 
of the wheids of Arjuiia’s chariot. Ha.ihya was the king of 
the Slid country. ] 

(7) O best of the twice*born ! I shall now mention to 
you the names of the most distinguished on our side. 



854 


GITA-EAHASYA or karma-yoga 


aP^'^WT ^ U C U 

3T7^ ^ ^ 7T?^ c^ifrf^: I 

sTPTT^T^rT^Ton; ^ u % n 

3T^H ^ >nc47rfim%cR I 

q^rhr ^ ^TT^nf^'^*?»^o » 

who are the leaders of my army, for your information ; learn, 
who they are. (8) They are yourself and Bhisma, and Karna, 
aiKl Krpa, the victorious in battle, Asvatthama, and Vikarna 
(one of the hundred brothers of Duryodhana), as also the 
son of Somadatta (Bhurisrava); (9) and there are besides 
several other valiant men, who are ready to to sacrifice their 
lives for me, and all of them can fight with various weapons, 
and are proficient in the art of war. (10) This our army, 
which is protected by Bhisma is aparyapia* (that is, 
unlimited or boundless), whereas that their army, protected 
by Bhima, is paryapta, (that is, parimita, or limited). 

[There is a difference of opinion as to how the words 
‘paryapta’ and ‘aparyapta’ are to be understood, 'paryapta' 
ordinarily means ‘ suflficient Therefore, some interpret 
this stanza as meaning, “ the army of the Pandavas is 
sufficient, and our army is insufficient (aparyapta) But, 
this interpretation is not correct. In the foregoing chapters 
of the Udyogaparva, Duryodhana, while describing their 
army to Dhrtarastra has given the names of the above- 
mentioned commanders of his army, and has said : “As my 
army is very large and well-trained, I am bound to win the 
war” (U. 54. 60-70); similarly, when Duryodhana again 
describes his army to Dronacarya, further on in the 
Bhismaparva, he has uttered the words of the above stanzas 

* Dr. Annie Besant translates ‘aparyapta^ as ‘insufficient’ (See 
The Bhagavadglta translated by Annie Besant and Bhagvandas. 
Theo. Pub. House, 1926 p. 5 ). But Telang translates it as 
'‘unlimited’ (See. 8. B. E. Series Yol. VIII p. 38)—Trans. 





GITA, TRANSLATION & COMMENTARY, CHAP. L 855 


of the Gita (Bhfema. 51.4-6); and as this description has 
been given in a joyful frame of mind, in order to encourage 
the whole army, the word 'aixmjCipta , cannot possibly be 
interpreted otherwise than as meaning ‘unlimited’, ‘bound¬ 
less’, or ‘ innumerable ’. The root meaning’ of the word 
‘paryupfa' is ‘that which is capable of being .surrounded, 
(Upa=^io occupy), on all sides (/wr/)But, when the word 
‘panjllpUi, is used after .some word in the fourth (dative) 
case, as in ‘for a particular purpose, parijupti', or 'to some 
person (oi’ thing), jHirijUpta, then the word ‘‘parynpta’, means 
‘that which Is sufficient for, or capable of performing that 
particulai’ purpo.so’; and if there; is no word bjfore the word 
'paryilpta', it, by itself, means ‘.sufficient’, ‘limited’, or 
‘countable’. For instance, take the woials ^ jrasun tahiyya 
sTtrakhein' (that which is capable of ovor-wl elming) in the 
Marathi language, which are synonymous with the Sanskrit 
word ‘paryupta. When you say \iniahjald panun takanya 
surakhem', (that which is capable of overw helming some 
thing or some one), it means that it is ‘suffici nit for him or 
it’, and remains over; but, if you .simply say ‘grasun 
.s'draA:/n;wi', it means that‘some one ilse can over¬ 
whelm it’. In the pre.sent stanza, as there is no word 
before the word 'paryupta, this latter mianing is the 
correct meaning; and the Brahmanandagiri commentary 
gives illustrations of the word being used in that sense in 
books other than the Bharata. The explan.ition given by 
some, that Duryodhana, getting frightened says that his 
army is 'aparydpta’, that is, ‘insufficient', is not correct; 
because, there is no description anywhere jf Duryodhana 
having got frightened ; on the other hand, it is .stated that 
the Pandavas arranged their army in the military array 
knowm as Vajravyuha, liecause the army of Duryodhana 
was large ; and that, Yudhisthira was dejected at seeing the 
huge army of the Kauravas (Ma. Bha. Bhisma, 19. 5 and 
21). The reason for saying that the Pandava army was 
‘protected by Bhinia’, although Dhrstadyu nna was the 
(jimeruiisshno, is that Bhima had been posted in the front of 
of the Vajravyuha, in which the Pandavas had arranged 
their arinv on the first day of the war, fof protectinar it: 





856 GiTA-RAHASYA OR KARMA-YOGA 


^ ^5iiT?nwrft«JcTr. i 
wGfT^cmw:^ ifR^cT. ^ a:?! n i< 

§§ #5R^5i: ^ : IMdm^ *• I 

RSTEfrt: ^ SfrTm^rR: II II 

and because ho was the only person whom Diiryodhana 
could see in the forefront as the protector of the army. 
(Ma. Bha. Bhisma. 19. 4-11, 33 and 34); and that is why 
these two armies have been respectively described as 
‘bhimanelra’ (of which, Bhlma is the eye) and ‘bhisrnanetra' 

( of which, Bhisma is the eye ) in the chapters of the 
Mahabharata prior to the Gita (Ma. Bha. Bhisma. 20. 1). ] 

(11) (And therefore) Do you all respectively stand in all 
the various ‘ ay anas', (that is, 'openings in the army'), as you 
have been directed to do, and do you all protect Bhisma 
on all sides. 

[ Duryodhana has elsewhere (Ma. Bha. BhI. 15.1-20 ; 99. 
40, 41) given his reasons for directing that Bhisma, who was 
himself a powerful warrior, and who could not be defeated 
by anybody, should bo protected on all sides, by saying 
that it was necessary for all to be careful, because Bhisma 
had resolved not to fight with Sikhandi, and was liable to 
be killed by him. 

cf- 

aralcsyamanam hi vrko hunyut simhu fn mahabalam I 
ma simham jafnbukemva ghatayefhah siMmri^vm li 

that is, “If the extremely powerful Lion is not protected, 
even a wolf will kill him; therefore, do not allow the Lion 
to be destroyed by a fox like Sikhandi”. Bhisma was 
capable of dealing single-handed with any person whosoever 
except Sikhandi; and, he did not look for help from anybody 
else. ] 

(12) (At this moment), The oldest of the Kauravas, the 
(powerful) grand-sire (the generalissmo Bhisma ) roared 
aloud like a lion in order to engladden him. (Duryodhana), 
and blew his conch (as a sign of readiness for battle). 



GiTA, TRANSLATION &COMMENTABA, CHAP. I 857 

cTTT'. q«lcJR<f;JTTg?3T *• I 

PTH: I 

TTR?n i^ir ; n n 

qT?a^I=4 I 

H^nrr^- J n V^ ii 

3TJTf frf^4 Tr^r ; i 

?T^: <1 » 

“ijs^gw f ^ T g^ ^Tf?IT%arNHf^?T i\\\^ 11 

^^rr^ ^5Tf R T*^5: ii Ic ii 

(13) Thereupon, conclies, kcttlc-drums, taoors, drums, 

cowhorns, these (martiiil musical instrumeats ) suddenly 
blared forth; and that sound was tumultuous, (that is to 
say, saturating all the four sides). (14) Thereupon, 

Madhava ( Sri Krsna ), and ihe sou of Pandu (.Arjuna), who 
were seated in a large chariot, to which pure white horses 
were yoked, also blew their divine conches (in order to 
say by way of reply that their side was also ready). 
(15) Hrsll cesa, (that is, Sri Krsna), (blew) the (conch called) 
Pahcajanya; .\rjuna (blew) the Devadatta ; ITkodara, the 
doer of terrible; deeds (that is, Bhimasena) blew- the mighty 
conch named Paundra; (16) king Yudhisthira, the son of 

Kunti, blew the Anantavijaya ; and Nakula and Sahadeva blew 
the Sughosu and the Manipuspaka. (17) Similarly, Ka&aja, 
holder of an excellent bow, Sikhandi, the mighty car-warrior, 
and Dhrstadyumna, Virata, and Satyaki, the unconquered, 
(IS) Diupada, and the (five) sons of Draupadi, and the mighty- 
armed Saubhadra (Abhimanyu), all these, O King (Dhrta- 
rastra )! blew severally tlieir respective conches on all sides. 




858 


GITA-RAHASYA OR KARMA-YOGA 


srsra %q 5g^r sqgqrqqq n 1% u 

§§ arq sqqRqcTTq ^fT i 

^l^^qici qniqq: li li 


cTqr 



I 


3T^H ^rq I 

%qqiq^?fT^-q r4 ^'-orqq JTS^gcT l» H 

qj4?cTlf^<r^? qt^qn^TRqR-qmq I 
%ifqT ^ qt^5eqjTr%Tq TPT^§ a<H n n 



qmcil^q fqqfqqft^q; II u 

3?fq 1 

oqjg^ l<fr%«n TfnrcT i 

%qqt^^qq 1 ^vq ^qrqfqrqi Tqrfnrq ii ^8 n 

(19) That tumultuous din, which shook the earth and the 
firmament, rent the hearts of Kauravas. 

(20) Then, seeing that the Kauravas were properly 
arrayed, and when the attack by weapons was about to 
start, the Pandava, on whose standard is depicted Maruti^ 
(that is to say, Arjuna), took up his bow, and spoke thus, 

(21) O king Dhrtarastra, to Sri Krsna,—Arjuna said;— 
(Please) station my chariot between the two armies, 

(22) so that I will, in the meantime, observe these people 
who stand here desirous to engage in battle ; and I shall 
also see those persons with whom I have to fight in this 
war, and (23) gaze on those fighters who have collected 
here with the intention of helping the cause of the evil- 
minded Duryodhana. Sanjajm said:—(24)0 Dhrtarastra! 
when Gudakesa, (that is, the conquerer of idleness, namely, 
Arjuna), had spoken thus to Him, Hrsikesa, (that is, the 
Conqueror of the organs, namely, Sri Krsna), drove and 



GiTA, TRANSLATION & COMMENTARY, CHAP. I 859 


placed the splendid chariot (of Arjuna) bet'veen the two 
armies; and— 

[The meaning,s given by me above to the two woi’ds 
^hri^lkesa’ and ‘ (ju^akt'Ui’ are consistent wi Ji the inter¬ 
pretations of the camnientators. In the Narada-Pancai'atra, 
the etymology of ‘Hrsikesa’ has been given a,s: ‘ hrsika’ 
means ' the oi-gan.sand tlioir 'isa\ that is, ‘the Lord’, 
is the ' hrMkvsa'. (Na. Pafica. 5.8. 17), Audit i,s stated 
in Kshira.svami’.s commentary on the Annrakosa that 
the w(jrd‘Ansi/cw’, that Is,‘tlie organ,s’, isderi/ed from the 
root —‘to give plea.snre’; and that the organs are 

called 'hralka', because they give pleasure to the human 
being. Nevertheles.s, there is a doubt whethe r the meanings 
of the words ‘/(r.si/rcsn’ and ' (indah'Sa.’ giv .m above are 
correct; because, the word ‘krAka' as meaning ‘the organs’, 
and the w<'rd ‘ <jii.ddkd\ as meaning ‘ idlones.s’ t)r ‘ sleep’ are 
not in common use; and the w'orJs ‘ firslkesa ’ ind 'ejudaketa* 
can be etymologically derived in another waj . Instead of 
bresaking up the word‘/(fsi/resa’ into ‘ hr A hi'' + ‘is«’, and 
the word ‘ yiidakoid' inti> ‘ (inddku’ + Asi’, they can 
respectively be br(jken up a-j, hr-Akvki, aud, (juda + kesa\ 
and then ‘/ir.s;/rcS(P will mean “one who,5e hair (kesd) are 
standing up ‘as a result of joy’ (Ar.s'i)’’, and avi flowing, tliat 
is to say, Sri Krsua; and ‘‘(judUkesa will mean, “ Jiie whose hair 
{kesd) are [judd or ijUdha, that is, closely growi ig or matted”, 
that is to say, Arjuna. Nilakantha, w'ho has written a com- 
mentiiry on the Bharata, has .suggested this alternative 
meaning of the svord ' <iiidakesit’ in his connnimtary on Gita 
10. 20; and having regard to the naino Romaharsana, of the 
father of Silta, thi,s second interpretation of the word 
‘ ArsiA'csa ’ can also not be .said to be improbable. Nay, in 
the Narayanopakhyana in the Santiparva of the Maha- 
bharata, in giving the etymological meaning.s of the 
principal name,s of Visnu, ‘ hrst’ has been interpreted as 
meaning ‘joy-giving’ and ‘‘krsu’ has been interpreted as 
meaning ‘rays’; and the word ‘ hrtiikesa ’ has been interpreted 
as meaning “One who fills the world with joy by means of 
the rays of His incarnations, the Sun and the Moon"; and [ 




860 


GiTA-RAHASYA OR KARMA-YOGA 


=5 ®r#r%ciT*3[ i 

trr4 tT#?Tr:5[ ii n 

cTsrnr^^ra; 'rvj: ;T'a fqcTT?rf tji: i 

^:jTr^nff?JTrg^r?¥rn|sj: ^3R?qrqr5^<!#^?T5ar n n 
%5T^reM^r?:fq I 

cTT^^qr^^r ^ u n 

»TC3irR?f T%^r?r%q*T^jrf?i i 

§§ ^f*T ^soT 33?^ ^gqrlHiqq n »c n 

^i?r-fT ^^ iTTSTTf^ 9?q ^ i 

%q3^ ^ i> II 

it is stated that He is on that account called ‘hrfikesa' 
{San. 345, 47 and 342. 64, 65; Udyo, 69. 9). And it i,s 
similarly stated in the; previoiv; stanzas that the word 
‘/ccsana’ is derived from ‘fesa’, i, o,, 'rays’ (San. 341. 47). 
Whichever of the.se ineanina.s is taken, it is impossible to 
give a fully satisfactory reason a.", to why Sri Krsna and 
Arjuna got these names. But this is not the fault of the 
etymologists. When it conies to defining proper names 
which have become very common, the.se kinds of difficulties 
or differences of opinion are quite likely to arise.] 

(25) HE said, in the presence of Bhisma and Drona, and 
all other kings: “O Arjuna! look at these Kauravas 
assembled (here)”. (26) Then Arjuna noticed that all who 
were assembled there, were (his own) elders, ancestors, 
preceptors, maternal-uncles, brothers, sons, grand-sons, and 
friends, (27) and fathers in-law, and dear ones in both the 
armies ; (and, in this way) when he had seen that all who 
had assembled there were his binsmem, Arjuna, the son of 
Kunti, (28) being filled with intense pity and despair, 
began to say as follows: 

Arjuna said : “ O Krsna ! seeing these my kinsmen, 
assembled (here) desirous of engaging in battle, (29) my 
limbs droop down, my mouth is parched up, my body 



GITA, TRANSLATION &COMMENTARY, C3.IAP. I 861 

I 

7[ ^ ^ ^ jtst. w^o » 

f^^rT% ^ Rq^mT% i 

Jf ^ ^^S5iT25?rn% >1 V. '> 

?r ^1 ^T ^ TT^?T ^ I 

^ ITI TT^$5T nlf% ^ II II 

<T sft w»n: ^if% ^ I 

rT NTOfT^rW^IT v:Rn% ^ H II 

fqrTC: ^ ftTcrmfi: I 

ITT^^r: 'Tf^: H ^8 H 

0:cTT5T I 

3Tf^ %m: ^ g h h 

1%^ NTcftr^rsi: ^T sftf^: ^rSRTtJl I 
tTTqit^^T^^TirsT ^/^fflHTcrrrrfNJT: II II 

slavers, und my hairs stand on eiul, (30) the Giindiva (bow) 
slips from my hand, and the whole of my body is hot; I 
cannot also stand, and my mind is ;i\vhirl; (31) similarly, 
O Kesuva ! all omens appear adverse (to me), and I do not 
perceive (that) any good will come from kihing ray own 
kinsmen in war. (32) O Krsna ! 1 have no desiie for victory, 
nor for sovereignty, nor for pleasures. O Govinda ! of what 
use is having sovereignty or enjoyment or life itself to us ? 
(33) (Even) those for whose sak<‘. we desire kingdom, or 
enjoyments and pleasures, are standing here for battle, 
having given up (the hope of) life or wealtJi; (34) though 
preceptors, fathers, sous, as well as grand-fat hi jrs, maternal- 
uncles, fathers-in-law, grand sons, brotliers-in-law, as also 
relatives (35) have all uprisen to kill (us), yet, I do not 
wish to kill (them), O Madhusudana, even for obtaining the 
kingdom of the three worlds ; then, why (talk) of the earth ? 
(36) O Janardana ! what pleasure may be ours by killing 
these Kauravas ? Although they are felons, yet, by killing 
them, sin will but attach (itself) to us. 



862 


GiTA-RAHASYA OR KARMA-YOGA 


^^rSR f| H H 

§§ JT 5?t^TM?fP%?T^ ; I 

^^fKT ^ qTcT^R: >i n 

^'4 5T Ir^ir^iTTf^r *• q'nTr^wri^^g^j; i 

\\^%n 

[ agnido garadas caiva sastrapayir dlianupahah I 
ksetradardliaras caiva md. ete atatuyinah il 

{ Vasistha-Smr. 3. 16 ), 

that is, “he who has conic to bum one’s house, he who' 
administers poison, he who comes to kill with a weapon in 
liis hand, he who robs one of one’s money, or of one’s wife, 
or of one’s field, these six are ‘felons’ (dtatdyinah,)”. Even 
Manu has said that such felons should be killed without 
any qualm of conscience, and that there is no sin in doing 
so (Manu, 8, 350, 351).] 

(37) Therefore, it is not proper that we ourselves should kill 
the Kauravas, who are our kinsmen ; for how, O Madhava ! 
can we become happy by killing our own kinsmen ? 

(38) Although these, whose minds have been over¬ 
powered by greed, do not see the guilt resulting from the 
extinction of a family, and the sin of treachery towards a 
friend, (39) yet, O Janardana ! when we clearly see the guilt 
of the extinction of a family, how can it not enter our minds 
to turn away from this sin ? 

[See my disquisition in the first, and again in the 
fourteenth chapters of the Glta-Rahasya, on the questions : 
(i) what is the import of the fact that Arjuna became doubt¬ 
ful regarding his own duty to fight, when he saw in 
advance with his own eyes that the war would entail the 
killing of elders, the death of relatives, and the 
extinction of families; (ii) what is the relation between 
that fact and the subsequent argument in the Gita, and 
(iii) what is the importance of the first chapter of the Gita 
from this point of view, etc. To what extent the argument 
that, those who are wise should follow the doctrine;“rta pdpe 
pratipdpah syFd” (i. e,, ‘Do not commit a sin in retaliation of 



GITA,TRANSLATION feTOMMENTARY, CHAP. I 863 


^TTicRT *• 

■(ilTf 5Ti t>r«:W'^STVnfraf3?T n 8o n 

sr|5?JRfT i:65I^ *• I 

^r!{ isrg ?ir<stn?i itr^ •. ii 8^ ii 

?f^fT 5T?:^SI ^^5TRT R 1 

tTHf^rT ^ H 8^ » 

lUUjUicr’s sill’—Trans.), and should remain inactive, but 
should not become wicked tor punishing the evil-minded, 
though tl (! latter might not realise their own wickedness as 
a result '.f tlieir minds having been over-powered by avarice, 
and the ether common arguments mentioned ii this place, 
are applicable or should bo nuidt.' api>licable to the present 
circumstance's, is a question as important n.s the ones 
mentionod above ; and I have explained in the Chapter XII 
of th.e (;lita-Rahasya at pages 544 to 554 w!iat, in my 
opinion, is the answer of the Gita to these (luestions. If 
one bear- in mind the fact that th(-' exposition 1.0 be found 
in the subsequent chapters of the Gita has been made in 
order to solve the doubt which hud ari.son in tie mind of 
Arjuna as shown in the first chapter, one can no more have 
any doubt about the Import of the Gita. Tiese doubts 
arose in the mind of Arjnna, because the Bharatl war was a 
civil war, due to a split lietween persons belonging to the 
same kingdom and the same religion, who had come 
forward to kill each other. Whenever siinilar circumstances 
have arisen in modern history, similar dovdits have also 
arisen. Arjuna now clearly specifies the evils which flow 
from the extinction of a family.] 

(40) On tlie extinction of a family, the eternal rkes of families 
arc destroyed ; and when these rites (of the family) have 
perished, lawlessness predominates over the whole family. 

(41) When lawlessness prevails, O Krsna, the women of the 
family become corrupt; and when they have become corrupt, 
then, O Varsneya! (‘descendant of Vrsni’—Trans.), there fol¬ 
lows caste-confusion. (42) And when there is caste-confusion, 




864 


QlTA-EAHASYA OR KARMA-YOGA. 


?TT»^T 5 U 8^ l> 
Hg^^rroTT \ 

5T?:% f^cf ^TT^r TfTSTrflr^g^^ » 88 II 

§§ 3T^ WrT JTfrqnT ^ 5?H%cn W? I 

1^3 ^^r3R5^rTT‘* U 8*^ « 

^ ^^qroRT: I 

i:oi ^JT?Tt >' 8^ 11 

3WI=^ I 

trerg^rclT^Jr: ?:«jnT?5a I 

^sm ^ II 8^ II 

it (necessarily) leads the destroyer of the family and the 
(entire) family to hell; and as a result of the cessation of the 
ritual of offering rice-balls and water, their ancestors also fall 
down (to hell—Trans.). (‘13) By these sins of the destroyers 
of families, which result in caste-confusion, the eternal caste- 
rites and family-rites are abolished ; (<14) and O Janardana I 
we have heard that persons whose family rites arc abolished, 
must necessarily undergo residence in hell. 

(45) Alas ! we are engaged in committing a heinous sin 
in that we have uprisen to kill our own kinsmen out of 
greed of the pleasures of sovereignty. (46) If, rather 
than this, (these) Kauravas, bearing arms slay me in the 
battle, I having become unarmed and having given up 
retaliation in return, that would be happier for me. 
Safijaya said : (47) Having spoken thus on the battle-field, 

Arjuna, whose mind was agitated by grief, casting aside the 
bow and arrows (in his hands), sat down (quiet) on his seat 
in the chariot. 

[As it was customary to fight standing in the chariot, the 
words ‘‘sat down on his seat in the chariot” more clearly 
bring out the idea that he had no desire to fight, as a result 
of his dejection. It would appear from the descriptions of 




GITA, TRANSLATION & COMMENTARY, CHAP. I 865 


^grf%?Trqt 

^ nvjmrs’i^im: It t « 


chariots given in ;u)ine place;;, in the Maluihharata that in 
the tinieK of tlie Mubabliaruta theno chariots wore ordinarily 
two-wheeled, and that larger charioLs were son'!etimes drawn 
by four hor;ie;i, and that l)()th the nia.ster o;’ the chariot 
(thti ra/Zii) ajul the charioteer (sUra//ti) u.sed to sit in the 
unteri"]- part of the chariot, side by .side. la order that it 
should he possible to find (.ut whoso the chaiiot was, they 
used to erect a particular en.sign (dhvaja) oi the chariot. 

It is a well-known tradition that Maruti himself used to sit 
on the ensign of Arjuna.i 

Thus ends the first chfipter entitled The Dejection of 
Arjuna in the dialogue between SrT Krsnii and Arjuna on 
the Yoga included in the Science of the llrahman that is^ 
on the Karnui-Yoga, in the U])anisad sung, (that is, told) by 
the Hlessed Lord, 

11 have interpreted these concluding lines as showing that 
the GitiS, does not deal only with the Science of the Brahman 
(brahtiia-vidjid), but contains an exposition of the Karma- 
Yoga c.onsistently with the Science of the Ihalunan. See 
Chap. I (page 4), Chapt. Ill (page 82) and Chaix XI (page 
489) of the Gita-Rahasya. Although these concluding lines 
are not to be found in the Mahahharuta, yet, t ley must have 
come into existence before the date of the commentaries in 
.support of Renunciation (sainaudsti); becam.e, no scholar,, 
who i.s a follower of the doctrine of Renunciai.ion, will give 
the concluding line.s a,s above. This clearly show’s that the 
Gita tjoes not support the doctrine of Renunciation, but 
contains an exposition of Karma-Yoga, as a science, in the 
form of a conversation. I have shown the diffijrence between 
the scientific method and the eatochismal method in the 
heginiiing of Chap. Xf V of the Glta-Rahasya. ] 



^ rT'<£n i 

Rr^^rrm? ^» 

'-ifriTlNl^J^^?! I 

^^^f5rt TWi Hg^'-ong i 

^ ti 

|:«?T JTT »Tii: qT'-4 %ffTciTgtpra^ ' 

^ r?T5Fr^n%g «TtrT<7 H ^ » 

CHAPTER II. 

Sanjiiyn siiicl; (1) To him, (A,rjun;i., who was) thus filled 
with pity, aud whose eyes were filled with tears and turbid, and 
who was dejected, Madhusudaua (SriKrsna) spoke these words: 
The Bh'sscd Lord said: (2) O Arjuna ! how has this 
infamous conduct (hamalai'n) not practised (at anytime) 
by the Aryas, (that is, by good iiion), which leads to licll, and 
which brings one into disrepute, entered your mind, in this 
time of peril 1 {3) O Tartha ! be not effeminate (like tliis) : 
this is not worthy of you. O, (thou) harasser of foes, casting 
off this base weakness of heart, stand up (to fight). 

[ It Is truG that I have in this ijlace given tho literal 
moaning of tho v'ord ‘ paranlapa ’ as ’luu'asser of foes’. But 
I do not consider logical, the theory of most of the comment¬ 
ators, that these oft-recurring adjectival epithets, or names of 
Krsna and Arjuna, have been used in the Gita in a hidden 
meaning, or with a partic.nlar intention. In my opinion, those 
names have been used as was convenient for prosody, and do 
not convey any intentional moaning; and, therefore, I have 
on many occasions not reprodmiod in the translation, the 
name used in the stanza, but have generally translated 
them as ‘ Arjuna ’ or ‘ Sri Krsna ] 



GiTA, 'I'KANSLATION & COMM ENTARY, CI[AP. II 867 

^3^^ I 

3TT%3lTf^^ II S II 

j p: Hgrc» ft KirgiTPTH; ^ ;?!% i 

H ^fKlWr JTfl?IT ^ ^*T ^lit ^ 5T%g: I 

m^5T 5T r^irfRrqTfr^ts^Rv-im: !7g% ^r^T^r: ii ^ n 

Ai juu;i siiid : (4) O Miidhusudiina ! how sh dl 1 counter- 

uttack in battle with arrows, Blilsma utid Droiia, who, O 
Destroyer of enemies, arc entitled to (liigh) reverence ? 

(5) It is meritorious to live in this world even bj' begging, 
without killing one’s reverend elders; for Ir) killing such 
elders, (though they might be) abashed by monetary consi 
derations* I shall have to enjoy in this world blood-tainted 
enjoyments. 

[Tlio plural word '<jurun' must bi) taken here as meaning 
‘ elders ’ and not as ‘ preceptors ’; for there was no precep¬ 
tor in the army other than Dronacarya, who taught the 
martial art.s. When, before the commencement of the 
war, yudhisthira took off Ids shield on the battle-field, 
and went in all humility to such ‘elders’, that is, to 
Bhlsma, Dr(jna, and Salya in order to place 1 is head on 
their feet, and to be.seech their blessings, the;/ gave due 
praise to liim, who had followed the course of c mduct laid 
down by propriety, and they all explained t( him their 
reason for fighting on the side of Duryodhana tu follows:—■ 
K/f/ursya jjiiruso dfiHO diisaslv artho na kasijacdi 
ifi maharaja baddho 'sinij arfhena kauravuihW 

that is, “ Man is the slave of wealth, wealth is the slave of 
nobody; this being the true state of things, O Maharaja 
Yudliisthira, the Kauravas liave tied me by tuo bonds of 
wealth” (Ma, Bha, Bhi. 43. 35. 50 and 76). The words 
‘abashed by monetary considerations ’ used above signify 
the moaning conveyed in this stanza.] 

(6) Nor do we know which of the two is morci meritorious 

♦ Dr. Besant & Bhagvandas translate ‘ arthakurmn ’ as ' well- 
wishers ’ (see footnote on p. 24, The Bhagmdglta, l‘.i26)—Trans. 




868 


gIta-rahasya or karma-yoga 


f^TT ^W^T^%rTT: I 

^n%%rT ff| ^ W rcjf ITT^n^ wm 

qr f? inTr^fft »witrgsrr?T=^'tw^5^rwon%f^2TTorr*3[ i 
3T^?I ^fJTI^CTrJT^ ^rormm ^Tfw4 II <1 II 

3^1^ I 

rSTT ^T^cTq I 

^ 3ftr??T fm TfrT % ?g 4r ^ ctKoff ^ II ^ II 

tTgcH^ l^f%^: ^ntrT I 

II ?0 II 

for us, whether we should vanquish, or that wc should be 
vanquished (by them). To live by killing whom, wc have 
no desire, tliose very Kauravas arc standing here in front 
(to fight). 

f This stanza refers to a test of the respective merits of 
Action or Inaction, which is similar to the theory of ‘ the 
greatest good of the greatest numher ’; and its net import 
is that it is impossible to decide by that test whose victory 
is better (See Gita-Rahasya, p, 115 and 116). 

(7) As, on account of my natural temperament having been 
destroyed by adverse circumstances, my mind is in dcubt as 
to (my) 'dharmd (that is, my duty), I am asking You. Tell 
me that which is assuredly meritorious. 1 am your disciple,, 
instruct me, who liavc surrendered myself to You. 

(8) For, though I might win a prosperous kingdom on the 

earth free from foes, or even the sovereignty of the gods 
(of heaven), yet, I do not see aught (any means) whicli will 
remove this my grief, which is drying up my organs. 
Safijaya said : (9) After Gudakesa, the harasser of enemies,, 
(that is, Arjuna), had spoken thus to Hvsikesa (Sri Krsna), he 
became quiet after saying to Govinda : “ I shall not fight ”. 

(10) ( Thereafter ) O Bharata ( Dhrtarastra ) !, Sri Krsna,. 
smiling as it w'ere, spoke thus to Arjuna, who was sitting 
dejected between the two armies. 



GITA, 1:RANSLATI0N & COMMENTARY, CHAP. H 869 


[ The Blessed I jord is now going to give advice on the 
question of one’s duty in this world, to Arjuna, who 
was ])ulled on one side hy the inherent duty of the 
Ksatriyas, and on the other side by the fear of the sin of 
killing one’s elders, and causing the extinction of families; 
and who was engulfed in the doubt whether he should ‘ kill 
or be killed’, and was prepared to give up the fight and 
live the life of a mendicant. Arjuna’s objection was that 
his Atman would not be benefited by a terrible act like 
war. Therefore, the advice in the Gita starts by showing 
how those great men, who have attained the t ullost bliss of 
their Atmans by Realising the Parabrahman, live in this 
world. The Blessed Lord says that if one scrutinises the 
affairs of the world, one sees that from times immemorial 
there are two ways in which i)ersons, who have acquired 
the Knowledge of the Brahman, have been leading 
their lives. (See Gita, 3. 3; and Gita-Raha,sya, Chap, XI). 
After acquiring the Knowledge of the Self, ii en like Suka, 
gave up worldly life and led the lives ol mendicants, 
whereas, other men like Jaiiaka, who had also acquired the 
Knowledge of the Seif, spent their time in numerous 
worldly activities according to their own dharma, even 
after the Acquisition of Knowledge, for the i niversal good. 
The first mode of life is known as the ‘ San khya ’, or the 
Sainkhya-nistha, and the other is known as Karma-Yoga’ 
or‘Yoga’(G-stanza 39). But the Gita lias laid down the 
doctrine that though both these modes of life were in vogue, 
the Karma-Yoga was the superior mode, as will be shown 
later on ((ji. 5. 3). Out of these two Nisthas, the mind of 
Arjuna was inclined towards the Sarimyasa ,Renunciation) 
-Nistha. Therefore, the Blessed Lord has first brought home to 
him Ills mistake, on the basis of the philosophy relating to 
that path of life; and then, froTvi the 39th siaiiza onwards. 
He has started the exposition of Kanna-Yuga, Though the 
follow'ers of the Saihkhya path do not take part in Action 
after the Acquisition of Knowledge, yet, there is no 
difference between the Knowledge of the Brahman according 
to the Samkhya path and according to Karin a-Yoga. There¬ 
fore, the Blessed Ijord has first explained :o Arjuna in a 



870 


GiTA-RAHASYA OR KARMA-YOGA 


1 

§§ H^TRT^ ITR# I 

»TrnfJ^^»TfTT^^ 5TTg#^'^ II ?? 0 

5T ITTl 5T r4 %?r ^Rtfw: I 
rT #cr 5T ^ WTfT: qT*3[ II II 

ridiculing way that if the Atman is indestructible and 
permanent, even according to the Saihkhya system, then 
his question, “How shall I kill so and so” was mere worth¬ 
less talk. ] 

The Blessed Lord said :- (11) You are lamenting for 
those, for whom you should not lament, tmd yet talk about 
Knowledge ! Knowers do not lament (wliether) the dead or 
the uot-dead. 

[ In this stanza it is stated that one should not lament 
whether life continues or has beconre extinct. Out of these, 
lamenting over one who i.s dead, is only natural; and 
it is proper to give advice not to do so. But a doubt having 
arisen as to why and in what manner it is possible to lament 
the fact of some one not being dead, commentators have 
indulged in a considerable amount of discussion on this 
point; and many have said that it is a matter of lamenta¬ 
tion that the lives of fools and ignorant people should be 
spared. But, instead of hair-splitting in this way, we 
should interpret the word ‘ lament ’ in a broad way, as 
meaning ‘ to feel happy or unhappy’, or ‘ to mind’. All that 
is intended here is, that the Jnanin looks upon both these 
matters as one and the same. J 

(12) Just realise that not only is it not that I was not (in 
the irast), but it is not that you and these kings were not 
(in the past); nor is it that all of us will not be again in 
the future. 

[ In commenting on this stanza, it is stated in the 
Ramanu,iabhasya that, if both T’, that is, the Supreme Being, 
and ‘ you and these kings that is, the other Atmans, 
existed in the past and will be born again in the future, 
then, according to this stanza, the Supreme Being, and the 



GiTA, TRANSLATION & COMMENTARY, CHAP. II 871 

?T«rT !T 5?lf^ II II 

Atraaii both become separate, independent, and permanent 
entities. But, this argument is not correct. It is a 

partisan argument in support of a particular doctrine; 
because, thi.s stanza is intended to explain only that both 
are permanent; and their mutual inter-relation is not stated 
here, nor was there any occasion for doing s('. When that 
occasion arose later on, we find .stated in cleai terms in the 
Gita itself, the Non-Dualistic (udvdi/a.) doctrine that the 
Paramesvara, that is, the Blessed Lord, is the embodied 
Atman in the bodies of all created beings (Gl. 8. 4 ; 13. 31).] 
(13) Just as, for the One Whicii assumes a corporeal form, 
there is (acquired) infancy, youth, and old age, in this Body, 
90 also, is another Body (later on) acquired ; (i herefore) tliose 
who have acquired Knowledge, do not suffer from any 
ignorance in this matter. 

[Th(! great ignorance or fear in the mind of Arjuna was 
“How shall I kill a particular person?” Therefore, in 
order to dispel that ignorance, the Ble.s.sed Imrd first 
philosophically examines the (lucstions ‘whaf i.s death’, and 
‘what is killing’ (Stanzas 11 to 30). Man is not merely .some¬ 
thing encased in a body, but an aggregate of tht Body and the 
Atman. Gut of these, the Atman, which beco nes percepti¬ 
ble as ‘P, as a result of Individuation (ihanikdrn), m 
permanent and immortal. It is to-day, it was yesterday, 
and it will also be to-morrow. Therofi.)re, the wairds ‘to kill’ or 
‘to die’ cannot be properly applied to the Atman, and there 
is no room for lamentation in that matter, h’hen remains 
the Body. That, of course, is admittedly n Dii-permanent 
and destructible, and will come to an end, if not to-day or to¬ 
morrow, at least after a 100 years. Of. “adya m 'hdasutdnte va 
mrfmr wd prdninam dliruvah (that is, “Death is certain for 
living beings, whether to day, or after a hxindred years”— 
Trans.), ( Bhag, 10. 1. 38 ); and as the Atman definitely 
acquires later on another body in accordance with the 
previous Action {karma), though it gets out of (me body, it is 
also not proper to lament over the loss of that body. In short. 



872 


GiTA-RAHASYA OR KARMA-YOGA 


BTTITWiTTT^STTSf^JIRrlTRcTT'^^Er ^rT U H 

?T ft ST c?T5SnTTr^t 3^»T^¥r I 

^S^cTr^?^ II II 

it iH definitoly proved, that whether one looks at the matter 
from the point of view of the Body or of the Atman, 
lamentation on account of death is foolish. But, though 
this fact is thus proved, yet, it is necessary to explain why 
one should not lament, on account of the suffering which 
one goes through while the existing life is being destroyed. 
Therefore, the Blessed Lord now deals with the form of this 
bodily happine.ss and unhappiness, and shows that it is not 
proper to lament on account of that suffering.] 

(14) O Son of Kunti ! these contacts (with bodily organs) 
of ‘matrn’, (that is, of things in the external world), which 
produce cold and heat, or happiness and unhappiness, come 
into existence and die out; (therefore) they are non-per¬ 
manent (that is, destructible). O Bharuta ! do you bear these 
(without lamentation); (15) because, O, pre-eminent among 
men 1 it is the Jnanin alone, (who is) equal towards happiness 
and unhappiness, who (on that account) is not affected by 
them, that becomes capable of attaining immortality, (that is 
to say, the state of the Immortal Brahman). 

[The man who has not Realised that the Name-d and 
Form-ed Cosmos is illusory, by Realising the identity of the 
Brahman and the Atman, looks upon as real, the happiness 
and unhappiness or the cold and heat arising from the 
contact of the physical organs with the external world, and 
wrongly attributes those properties to the Atman ; and, on 
that account, suffers grief. But the man who has realised 
that all the emotions are of the Prakrti, and that the 
Atman (Self) is a Non-doer and Unattached, looks upon 
happinesss and unhappiness as alike ; and the Blessed 
Lord is now telling Arjuna, that he (Arjuna) should bear 
unhappiness and happiness with such an equable frame of 
Mind ; and the same import has been explained in a more 




GiTA, TRANSLATION &CX)MMENTARY, OJIAP. 11 873 


§§ 


STI^r 5TP3irtT w. I 

^ITS^rT^rcprat^rTr^I^ftTf^; II ;l 


exhaustive manner in this subsequent chapters. The word 
‘ iiinlra' has i)een interpreted in the Samkaraidiasya as 
meaning ‘the organs, by which external tiiii gs can be 
measured or known’, V/,^ ' nmjale (‘bivlnti mafj-a’. 

But, some c.ommentators interpret ' ina/ra’ as meaning 
‘the external objects, such as, sound, touch, (tc., which 
can be measured by means ol the physical organs’; and 
they intei’pret 'nialran/xirsa' as meaning ‘the contact of those 
external objects with the physical organs’; and that is the 
interpretation which has been accepted by mi ; because, 
where the ideas appearing iu this stanza, apoear again 
later on in the Gita (Gl. 5. SI, ‘13), the word ‘ hdi>ua-f<parsa ' 
has been used ; and if the word ‘ nialrU-xpursu ’ is interpreted 
in the way in which 1 have interpreted it, both these words 
become consistent with each other. But, thougji these two 
words can be made consistent with each other i-i this way, 
the word ‘ inlilfa-sjuirsn. ’ seems to be the more ancient of 
the two ; because, the word ‘ inillra-sd/K/n ’ has been used in 
the Manu-snirti in the same .sense (6. 57); and it is stated 
in the Brhadaranyakopanisad, that the Atman of a Jhanin 
becomes ‘(is(n'n,s((rij!i ’ {€/. ina/ra ’m/iLxdrgtih), that is, de¬ 
tached from the Matras, that is to say, that he becomes free; 
and there is no connotation (saiiiji'id) for him after his death 
(Br. Madhyan. 4. 5. 14; Ve. Su. Sam. Bha. 1, 4. 23). The 
words ‘ heat and cold ’, or, ‘ happiness and unhappiness ’ are 
synecdochial, and include the op])osito couples \{<Iamdra) 
of ‘ love and hostility ’, ‘ real and unreal ’, ‘ death and im¬ 
mortality ’ etc. As these opposite couples belong to the 
Maya-world and the true Parabrahman is, as ('escribed in 
the Nasadiya-Sukta, beyond this duality, one cannot attain 
the Brahman, otherwise than by peacefully bearing these 
opposite couples and releasing the Reason from the grip of 
thesocou])les (Gl.2. 45; 7. 28 and Gi. Ra. Gh. IX p. 314 and 
351). Tire same meaning is now made clear from the 
point of view of the Philosophy of the Absolute Self—^]. 

(16) Tlrat which is not (asat), cannot be as if it i.s ; and 




874 


gIta-rahasya or karma-yoga 


that which is (sat), cannot be as if it is not; in this way, the 
see-ers of the Essence of things have perceived the truth 
about ‘is’ and ‘is not’ (sal and asal), (that is to say, they 
have defined their connotation, after having perceived the 
truth). 


[The word ‘ ant a ' in this stanza has the same meaning as 
in the compounds ‘ rnddhanta ‘ skldhdida ’, or ‘ krldnfa ’, 
(Gi. 18,13); and the Sasvatakosa defines the various mean¬ 
ings of the word'nnVff.’ as “siurujxipmitai/or anfatn antoke 
'pi prauujyule" {Sa. 381) (that is," the border of a form 
( body ), or of a region, as also Death—Trans.).According 
to this stanza‘m/’means the ‘Brahman’, and, means 

the Name-d and Form-od visible world (Seo Gl Ra. Ch. IX, 
p. 307 and pp. 335 to 339). Although the doctrine "that 
which is, cannot cease to be”, looks like the SatkaryavSda 
theory, (See Gita-Rahasya Ch, Vil, p. 310 and Ch. IX. pp. 3‘35 
and 335—Trans.), one must bear in mind that its meaning 
is slightly different. Where one thing is produced out of 
another thing, e. g., the tree from the seed, the only 
principle which can be applied is that of the Satkaryavada. 
That i.s not the idea to be conveyed in the present stanza; 
and, all that is being said is that, the existence ((istdrn or 
hhdvu) of 'sat', that is, of ‘that which exists’, and the ‘non- 
existence’ {abliava) of ‘asat', that is, of ‘that which does not 
exist’, are both permanent, that is, ever-lasting. When we 
thus loolr upon the respective existence and non-existence 
of the,se two as permanent, it follows as a matter of course 
that ‘<t.saf’ is not the result of the destruction of that which 
was 'sat'. But this doctrine is not the same as the 
Batkaryavada doctrine, which initially takes for granted the 
coming into existence of one thing from another thing, as 
an effect from a cause (Gl.Ra. Ch. VII, p. 211). The Madhva- 
bhasya reads the words “vidi/nte hhuvah" out of “ndmto 
vidijate b/iuvah", which is the first quarter of this stanza, as 
'mdyate-i-abhavah'; and it has interpreted these words as 
meaning that “there is no ‘ahhara that is, ‘destruction’ of 
the 'usat' (unreal), that is, ‘amjukla (imperceptible) Prakrti; 





GITA, TRANSLATION & COMMENTARY, CHAP. II 875 


and, as it has been stated in the second quarter of the 
stanza tliat the ‘sa/’ too is not destroyed, Madhvacarya has, 
according to his Dualistic doctrine, interpreted the entire 
stanza as meaning that both the \isat' and the 'sat' are 
permanent. But, this nieaning is not the straight-forward 
meaning of the stanza. It is a stretched moaning; for, it 
can be seen that the two mutually opposite words 'abhava' 
and 'bhava' have been used in this place in the same way as 
the mutually opposite words, 'asat' and 'sat'-, and if the word 
‘abhUm’ has heed used in the seoond line of the st anza, name¬ 
ly, in the phrase, ‘ 'nablihvo vidijate sal ah' ’, it is qu i te clear that 
the word intended to be used in the first lino c f the stanza 
must have been ‘ bhava ' and not ‘ abfiava ' ; besides, it was 
not necessary at all to use the w'ords ‘ ahhliva ’ mid ‘ vidijale ’ 
twice, in order to say that both ‘ asat' and ‘ sat' are per¬ 
manent. But, even if this repetition is looked upon 
as a respectful repetition, as suggested by IVI adhvacarya^ 
it has been clearly stated later on in the 18th 
stanza, that the human body to be seen in the percepti¬ 
ble or \-isible world is destructible, that is to say, non- 
permanent. It, thorofore, clearly follows that recording to 
the Bhagavadgita, the Body cannot be boked upon as 
permanent, in tho same way as the Atman, Whereas the 
latter is permanent, the former is non-pormauent. Never¬ 
theless, I have given here tho meaning of this stanza 
according to Madhvacarya, by way of exami le, in order 
to show my readers how the meanings or words are 
stretched by doctrine-supporting commentators with the 
intention of supporting their own doctrine. However, as that 
which is ‘ sat' can never cease to exist, it is no uso lament¬ 
ing over the .s'a/-fornied {satsmrTLpa) Atman; and as the 
Name-d and Eorm-ed Body etc., as also the emotions of 
pleasure or displeasure, are essentially da.structihle from 
the philosophical point of view, it is also not proper to 
lam(3nt their loss. This ju.stifios tho words " you arc lament¬ 
ing that over which you should not bim.3nt” us.'d in sp lak- 
ing to Arjuna. The Blessed Lord now further explains the 
meanings of the words ‘ sal' and ‘ asat in the next two 
stanzas—J 



876 


GiTA-RAHASyA OR KARMA-YOGA 


Srf^ITTRl 3 %5T cTrT^ I 

3T7cl^rT ‘^T Rr^T^r^i: ^TT^OT. I 
ST^RT^nSSI^f?! WTrT •» \C II 

^ ^ ^ lrre[ I 

^ W W^HRfr ?TI^ ^RcT 5T 11 \% II 

(17) Know that That (fundamental Atman-formed Brahman) 
Which has pervaded or occupied tlris whole (world) is 
indestructible. The destruction of this Inexhaustible 
(Principle), none can bring about. 

[This is the description of what has been referred to as 
‘ ',sa/: ’ in the last stanza. R ow, the Blessed Lord says, that 
the Atman, which is the Owmer of the Body, falls into this 
category of the Permanent, and He goef, on to explain what 
is to be called ‘Non-permanent’ or ‘ andl ’—j 

(18) These bodies acquired by the eternal, indestructible, 
and unimaginable Owner of the Body (Atman) are said to 
be perishable, (that is uon-cternalj. Therefore, fight! O 
Bharata 1 

[In short, if one thus discriminates between what i.s 
eternal and what non-eternal, the idea that ‘I am killing a 
particular person’ i,s proved to be false; and the reason 
given by Arjuna for not fighting falls to the ground. Thi.s 
conclusion is now made more clear -] 

(19) He who thinks that It (the Owner of the Body or the 
Atman) is the killer, or, who thinks that It is slain, both 
these do not possess true Knowledge ; (because) this (Atman) 
does not kill, and is not killed. 

[Because, the Atman i,s permanent and itself a Non-Doer, 
and the whole activity is of Prakrti, This and the 
next stanza appear in the Kathopanisad (Katha. 2. 

18,19). It is also stated in several places in the Maha- 
bharata that everything is swallowed up by 'Mi'a ’ (Time, 
or Death); and that ‘kills’ or ‘is killed’ are worldly names 
for this pastime of Death (San. 25. 15). The Blessed Lord 
has again explained to Arjuna later on (11. 33) this very 






GITA, TRANSLATION & COMMENTARY, CHAP. II 877 


^rr cir it i 

ani'l IT 1I=ITH ^?IT*TT% ?Tff^ II ^0 11 

%?[f%^n'tTIT l%r?T u tr;TIT5TTTHW3[ I 

^■'4 ^ qi'-a ^ grrriim ^f^ff ^ u '’X » 

ifroftR ijvjr fIririT ir^rf^ gfrrm iTfrsqrrfw i 
cTstrr ^fknwr t%t^ ir^rrm inrTR n n 

%IT %I^'?fT 5TWnOT %IT qr^: I 

IT %4 If ^yqqf^ ht^-. ii ii 


principle in terms of the l^hilosophy of Devotion when He 
says that lie hini.self has already killed Bhluna, Drona, 
and the others in His form of Death, and that Arjuna should 
now become only the nominal implement {idin/lf ;). ] 

(20) Tins (Atman) is never born nor docs li ever die; nor 
is it that It, having (once) e.vistcd, will not be again; It is 
unborn, ever-lasting, immutable, and primeval ; and it is 
not killed, though the Body is killed, (dl) O Partha! 
that man who has Realised tiuil It is i idestructible, 
ever-lasting, unborn, atui inc.vliaustible, how iind whom can 
he cause to be killed, and how and wliom can Ire kill ? 

(22) Just as a mat', casting off old clothes puts on others 
and new ones, so the deJii, (that is to say, the Atman, which 
owns the Body), casting off old bodies, becomes united with 
others :i.nd new bodies. 

[This simile of clothes is hi ordinary uso. In another 
place in the M ahabharata, the illu.stratioii has been given 
of leaving one house (snla), and going to another house 
(San. 1,5. 56); and one American writer ha.s exiiressed the 
same idea by giving the illuBtration of putting on a new 
cover on a book, 'fhe same argument is here applied to the 
Body, which wars applied above in the 13th st mr.a to tlio 
states of infancy, youth, and old age. 1 

(23) Weapons do not cut It (that is, the Atman) ; fire does 
not burn It; so also does water not moisten It; the wind 




878 


GlTA-RAHASYA OR KARMA-YOGA 


f^r^: ^JTIcTJT* » ^8 II 


3<e^Thrs^i'%vr?frs?r»TR'ifr^Tfsjig'ciji 
M?f%T 5ngi^rf^gii^T% n n 

§§ 3T?I %5T f^f7|5TRT I 

cT«iTFr JT^rwrtr %# ^rf^girtm n ii 

^TRT^ ft 3^1 ^ I 

fi^r«f<TR^ras?l 5T ft ^if^gJTlrtr n n 


does not dry It up. (24) This (Atmsin), which is uncleave- 
able, uncombustible, not-to-be-moistened, and not-to-be- 
dried up, is permanent, all-pervading, stable, immoveable, 
and, eternal (that is, everlasting). (25) This (Atman) is 
said to be imperceptible (that is, not perceptible by the 
organs), unthinkable (that is, impossible of being under¬ 
stood even by the Mind), and immutable (that is, such as is 
not subject to the attribute of any modification). Therefore, 
knowing this (Atman) to be such, it is not proper that you 
should grieve over It. 

[This description has been taken from the Upanisads, and 
is of the qualityless Atman, and not of a qualityful Atman; 
because, the adjectives ^ttikarya' (immutable), oi'^acintya’ 
(unthinkable) cannot be applied to the Qualityful. This 
reason for not grieving has been given on the authority of 
that description. Now, some one may advance the argu¬ 
ment that, as he does not accept the Atman as eternal, this 
argument is not acceptable to him. Therefore, the Blessed 
Lord first mentions this assumptive propo.sition (purva- 
paksa ) and replies to it as follows— ] 


(36) Or, even if you believe that this Atman, (is not 
permanent, but with the Body) is constantly born, and 
constantly dies, even then, O Mahabaho ! (mighty-armed—■ 
Trans.), it is not proper that you should grieve over It; 
(27) because, to one that is born, death is certain, and to 
one that dies, birth is certain ; tlierefore, about an (this) 



GITA, TKANSLATION & COMMENTARY, (^HAP. II 879 


§§ c<jTh«H<iiR ^rrccT i 

cT^ ^ qf^sTT l> H 

unavoidable (according to your ubovementioned opinion) 
matter, you ought not to grieve. 

[The argument, mentioned in the two above stanzas 26 and 
27, is not tV)r supporting the doctrine of the Giti. It must be 
rememiiered that this is a reply to the assumptiv e proposition, 
raised by the words ‘ allui ca * = ‘ or The only thing to be 
shown is; whether one looks upon the Atman as permanent, 
or as non-permanent, there is no room for lamentation in 
either case. I have already mentioned above that the doctrine 
advanced by the Gita is, that the Atman is existent ( sat ), 
unborn, immutable, and un-imaginable, or qualityless. The 
Blessed Lord now gives another argument, on the basis of the 
Sarhkhya system, in support of the theory that there should 
bo no lamentation over the Body, as it is non-permanent—]. 

(28) All created beings are itnperceptible in the beginn¬ 
ing, perceptible in the middle, and imperceptible again in 
deatli ; (if this is the case with every being) then, O Bharata I 
where is (there room for) lamentation ? 

[The word ‘ avyakUi' moans ‘ that w'hich is not perceiva¬ 
ble by the organs ’; the argument advanced i n this stanza 
is based on the Sarhkhya doctrine that the entire percep¬ 
tible universe has come out of One original imperceptible 
Substance by gradual degrees, and that in the end, that is, 
at the time of the final Dissolution {pralaya), the entire 
perceptible universe is again dissolved into the same Im¬ 
perceptible (Gi. 8. 18). See the explanation of this Sarhkhya 
doctrine in the seventh and the eighth chapters of the 
Gita-Rahasya. If the perceptible form of anything soever 
is, in this way, going to be destroyed sometime or other, 
there remains no cause at all for lamenting over some¬ 
thing, which, by its very nature, is liable to destruction. 
This same stanza appears in the Strlparva of the Maha- 
barata (Ma. Bha. Strl. 3. 6), where the word ‘ abhuva ' (non¬ 
existent) has been used instead of ‘ avyakta Also, later on, 
the word ‘ adarsana i. e., ‘ to go out of sight ’, has been 




880 


GITA-RAHASYA OB KARMA-YOGA 


§§ aTT^cTcj: q^r% cT%t i 

3Tra^eit!T*T^?P ^ ^ II II 

T%rir»r^‘^ts?T ^ ^rrcrr i 

cT^Jir^ ^ ^ n n 

used with reference to death in the stanza: '^idarsanad 
apatituh pumis cadarsamtn yatdh l m te lava na tesdfn tva'tn 
laira kd purkiemna II ” (Stri. 'Z. 13), (that is, “emerged from 
the Itivisible, and returning into the (same) Invisible, 
these are ncjt thine, nor art thou theirs; wherefore, then 
(any) lamentation (for them)?”—Trans.). If lamentation 
is futile both according to the Bamkhya and the Vedanta 
philosophies, and if the same conclusion is reached, even 
looking upon the Atman as non-permanent, why do people 
lament over death ? The reply is : thi.s is due to ignorance 
of the nature of the Atman, because-— ] 

(29) Some look at this (Atman—Trans.) as a wonder 
(wonderful thing), others speak of It as a wonder, and some 
others (than them) hear (of It—Trans.) as a wonder; but 
even after (seeing and describing in this way, and) hearingr 
no one (out of these) Knows It (really). 

[Though learned people enter into di.scu.ssions about the 
Atman, a.s a wonder, yet, a.s very few person.s ever realise 
the true nature of It, many people lament over death. Do 
not you do likewi.se, but Realise the true nature of the 
Atman after mature deliberation, and cease to lament; that 
is what this .stanza means. Tire Atman has been described 
in the same way in the Kathopanisad (Katha. 2. 7).] 

(30) The Owner of the Body, (that is, the Atman), (wliicli is) 
in every Body, is always unkillable, (that is, never liable 
to destruction); therefore, O Bharata (Arjuna) ! it is not 
proper that you should lament about all (i. e., any) created 
things. 

[It has thu,s far been proved that there is no reason to 
‘ lament ’ if some one kills or is killed, becamse according 
to the Bamkhya philo.sophy, or the philosophy of the Path 
of Renunciation, the Atman is immortal, and the Body 




GlTA, TRANSLATION & COMMENTARY, CHAP. 11 881 


sr f^sra' it n 

i.':i inherently niortah But if, on that account, some one 
draws the conchudon that there i:; no ‘sin' in somebody 
killing someone else, that will be a very serious mistake. 
Only the meaning of the words ‘dying’ and ‘killing’ 
has been analysed hero, and this explanaiicn has been 
given only for the purpose of first removing the fear 
attendant on. death, or on killing. Man is a combination 
of the Body and the Atman. As. the Atman, o,it of these, 
is immortal, the word;; ‘ d.ying ’ <ir ‘killing’ (c> not apply 
to It. Then remains the Body; but as the Body is 
naturally mortal, there is no reason fur lamentation if it is 
destroyed. But, even accepting the position that one 
shonld not lament over death, or become happy or unhappy 
if some one dies or is killed accidentally or in counse of 
time, one does not thereby solve the question, why a person, 
should (inter upon such a terrible act as war and destroy 
the bodies of others. Because, although the Bc dy is mortal, 
yet, as the Body is the only means by v hich one can 
attain the permanent benefit of the Atman or obtaixr 
Release, both suicide and the un.justitied killing of another 
person are looked upon as grave sins by religion. There¬ 
fore, though it is not proper to lament over death, yet, it is 
necessary to give some other satisfactory reason why one 
person shonld kill another. This is known as the discri¬ 
mination between ‘dharrna (Right) and 'adJiann.a (Wrong); 
and this i.s the subject-matter really propounded in the 
Oita. The Blessed Lord, therefore, first tell:; Arjuna that 
as fighting is the duty of all Ksatriyas acc irdiiig to the 
arrangement of four castes accepted even in the Baihkhya 
philosophy, not only should ho not lament ovei‘ the fact of 
death or of killing, but that both dying or being killed in 
war wore things which were his lot according i o the religion 
of Ksatriyas— 1 

(31) Besides, even if you consider your own duty, you 
ought not to falter (on this occasion); because, there is 




882 


GlTA-EAIIASYA OR KARMA-YOGA 


^%5t: : qm qj^ n » 

3T5!i ^Trsrf^rR ^irnr i 

?rt: 5esnim ^ ffr^rr n n 

ar^i^ i 

ii ^8 ii 

nothing more meritorious to a Ksatriya than warfare enjoined 
by duty. 

[This argumont about “one’s own duty" (smdharma) 
appears twice later on (Gi. 3. 35 and 18. 47). This and the 
subsequent stanza say, that although the fourth stage 
(Hirariia) in the shape of Renunciation of Action {karma- 
mmnijdsa), is the last step according to the Path of 
Renunciation or the Samkhya philosophy, yet, as it had 
been enjoined by Manu and other writers of the Smrtis that 
before reaching that stage. Brahmins had to follow the 
duties of Brahmins, and Ksatriyas, the duties of Ksatriyas, 
and in that way to complete the state of a householder 
(gThusihasrama), it was the duty of Arjuna, who was in the 
state of a householder, to fight. ] 

(32) And O Partha ! this war, which is indeed a door of 
Heaven, found open without effort, falls to the lot of only 
those Ksatriyas, who are fortunate. (33) But, if you will 
not carry on this (for you) righteous warfare, then you will 
have abandoned your duty and lost your honour, and 
incurred sin ; (34) (not only that, but) also (all) men will 
tell of your everlasting infamy ! And to one who has been 
honoured, infamy is (a) greater (death) than death. 

[This same principle has been explained by Sri Krsna to 
Yudhisthira in the Udyogaparva (Ma. Bha. U. 72. 24). The 
stanza there is as follows: "kuliruisya ca yd minda vadho 
vd 'mitrakarsava \ imhdguno mdho rUjan na tu rtindd 
kujivikd” (that is, ‘ill-fame of a well born ( person ) is (his) 
murder; it is not only an ill-fame which spoils life, but 
indeed the highest form of murder’—Trans.). But, as this 
idea has been conveyed in the Gita in a shorter form, and 





GITA, TRANSLATION & COMMENTARY, OHAP. II 883 


W?aTTl«TKrT ^ JT?tT5aT; I 

^ WlJTcTt II II 

ddil^di I I 

cTfit f-13rTt g H II 
^ ?n srr:^i% ^ i%fm ?rT ?t#j: i 
cT^Jirff^ g^ni ^crPraiT t n n 

^ fff^T ^IM155r4> ^iniTSnfT I 
fT^ 3^ M qTwn^% II n 


also as tho Gita is moro in vogue, the line, ^anibhavitasya" 
etc;., fi-om the Gita gets easily fixed in tlie memory, and 
peophi use it as a inoverb. Many other stanzas from the 
Gita are similarly to he heard quoted everywhere. The 
Blessed Ijord now explains what the form of ihe infamy is, 
on the present occasion— ] 

(35) (All I Masters of great chariots will think that you with- 
drew from the battle on account of fear ; and those by whom 
you arc highly thought of (to-day ), will hold you in less 
esteem. (36) Also, your enemies, decrying your power, will 
speak raucli (about you) that should not be spoken; and 
what indeed more painful than that? (37) Killed, you will 
go to heaven ; victorious, you will enjoy the earth ; therefore, 
arise, O Arjuna ! determined on battle. 


[Though the above exposition has shown that, according 
to tho Sarhkhya philosophy, not only should one not lament 
the fact of death or of killing, but that fighting according 
to the rules laid down for one’s own caste is a duty, yet, 
the Blessed Lord now answers the doubt whether the killer 
is responsible for the ‘sin’ of the deaths caused in 
warfare. Strictly speaking, the argument in reply to this 
question pertains to the Path of Karma-Yoga, and the 
introduction to that doctrine starts here. ] 

(38 i Looking upon happiness and unhappiness, gain and 
loss, victory and defeat, as alike, then start the battle ; acting 
thus you will not incur (any) sin. 

[There are two paths of leading one’s life in the world; 
the one is the Samkhya, and the other is the Yoga. Out of 




884 


GiTA-RAHASYA OR KARMA-YOGA 


»tt' 4 n h 

these two, it is not proper to lament over the Atman or the 
Body according to the philosophy of that very Samkhya 
Path, or the Path of Renunciation, by considering the 
doctrines of which, Arjuna had come to the point of giving 
up warfare and starting begging. The Blessed Lord has 
proved to Arjuna, that hapiriness and pain have to be boime 
with an equable frame of mind; that, warfare was the only 
proper thing to do for Ksatriyas having regard to the rules 
of conduct applying to them; and that, if warfare was 
carried on with an equable frame of mind, a man incurs no 
sin whatsoever. But as Saiiikliya philosophy is of the 
opinion that it is the highest duty ivf everyone in thi.s 
world, under any circumstances, to give up worldly life 
and take up Saiiinyasa (Renunciation), that philosophy 
does not solve the questions: (i) why Arjuna should not 
take up Sairmyasu at that very moment, giving up warfare; 
or, (ii) why he should follow the rules of conduct laid down 
for hi.s own caste; and then, the original objection of 
Arjuna may be said to remain unanswered. Therefore, the 
Blessed Lord now say.s as follow.s—] 

(39) Tin's buddhi Ghat is, Kuowlcge, or argument) 
stated to you is according to the Samkliya (that is, the 
Sarhnyasa)-Nistha. Xow hear that buddhi (that is, Knowledge) 
according to the (Karma-) Yoga, (which I am describing to 
you), being possessed of wTricli, O Partha, you will (even 
without giving up Action) cast off the bonds of Action. 

[This stanza is of very great importance in order to 
understand the import of the Bhagavadgita. The word 
‘ Samkhya ’ is not to be understood here as meaning 
‘ Kapila-Saihkhya ’, or only ‘ Vedanta nor is the word 
‘ Yoga ’ to be understood as meaning ‘ Patahjala-Yoga ’; 
but, Samkhya ’ must be taken here as meaning the 
‘ Sarhnyasa-marga ’ (Path of Renunciation) and ‘ Yoga ’ as 
meaning the ‘ Karma-Yoga ’ (Path of Proper Action), as is 
clear from Gita 3. 3. These two paths are independent (jf 



GITA, TRANSLATION & COMMENTARY, CHAR II 885 


§§ %?Tf^?F?r?rT^’tsf^rT siRr^^rr ^ i 

unm *T^ ^T(5[ II y:o H 

each other, and the followevB of these paths are known respect¬ 
ively as ‘ Samkhya’=‘Saihnyasa-margin ’ and ‘Yoga’ = 

■ Karma-Yoga-margin ’ (Gi. 5. 5). As the folhwers of the 
Samkhya-nistha out of these consider it more meritorious to 
give up Action in the end completely some time or other, the 
philosopliy of this path does not completely answer 
Ar.iuna’s question“ Why should I fight'?”. Therefore, the 
Blessed Lord now starts to impart the Knowledge pertain¬ 
ing to the Niatha of Karma-Yoga, or sh irtly Yoga, 
according to which true manhood consists in continuing to 
perform Action lifelong, with a disiaterestei frame of 
mind, and without adopting Wamnyasa, even after the 
acquisition of true Knowledge ; and this Rath (, f A.ction has 
been emi)iia,sised from now on right to the last chapter of 
the Gita, by showitig jnany reasons for followiiig that path 
and by giving satisfactory explanations of many doubt'i. 
When one bears in mind this explanation of the exposition 
of the subject-matter of the Gita, given by the Blessed Lord 
Himself, there remains no doubt any mi.)re t]i,at the Gita 
supports the patli of Karma-Yoga, The Blest ed Lord first 
states the most impurtaut propositions of Karma-Yoga-J 

(40) Here, (that is, in this path of Karma-Yoga), Action 
(once) commenced is not destroyed, (and afterwards) 
obstacles do not arise; even a little (practice) of this 
religion protects (one) from great danger. 

[The importance of this doctrine has been shown in 
Chapter X of the Gita-Raha.sya (p. 392, hot tom); and a 
fuller explanation is also given later on in the Gita 
(Gl. (i, 40-46). This stanza means that according to the 
path of Karma-Yoga, even if perfection is not reached in 
one life, the Action performed is not wasted, h Jt comes in 
useful in the .suVisequent births, and the imaat being thus 
accumulated from birth to birth, true Release is reached 
vdtimately, .somotinie or other. The Blessed fjord now 
propounis the second important doctrine of Karma-Yoga—] 



886 


GiTA-RAHASYA OR KARMA-YOGA 


W «? II 

(41) O Kumiiandana, (that is, descendant of Kuru, or 
Arjuna—-Trans.), in this (path) the (mental organ in the 
shape of) Reason, which performs the vyavasfiya, (that is, the 
discernment between the Doable and the Not-Doable), has 
got to be one, (that is, concentrated); but, the buddhayah (that 
is, the Desires) of those whose Reason is not (in this way) 
concentrated, are many-branchcd and (of) endless (kinds). 

[The word ‘ huddhi ’ has many meanings in Sanskrit. Of 
these, it has been used in the moaning of ‘Knowledge’ in 
the 39th stanza; and later on in the 49th stanza, ‘ buddhi' is 
to be interpreted as meaning ‘ understanding ’, ‘ desire 
‘ wish or ‘ motive But as the adjective ‘ vyavasayatmikd ’ 
precedes the word ‘ buddhi ’ in the first lino of this stanza, 
it there means the “ organ of Reason which performs 
‘ vyatasdya', that is, which discerns between the Doable and 
the Not-Doable” (Oita-Raha. Ch. VI, pp. 179 to 187). 
When this organ of Reason has first decided whether any 
matter is good or evil, the Mind conceives the desire or 
wish to act accordingly; therefore, this Desire or wish is 
also called ‘ buddhi \ But the adjective ‘ vyavasuyufmika' 
does not in the latter case precede that word. If it becomes 
necessary to show the difference, the phrase ‘ vasanututnica ’ 
huddhi is used. In the second line of this stanza, the word 
‘ buddhi ’ has been used by itself. It is not preceded by the 
adjective ‘ uyavamyriftniku ’. Therefore, the word ‘ buddhayah ' 
in the plural form means ‘ desires ’ or ‘ flights of imagina¬ 
tion ’; and the second lino of this stanza means; “ Those 
whose ‘ vyavasUyatmikd buddhi', that is to say, the discerning 
mental organ of Reason, is not steady, (that is, the 
umjamsayinah —Trans.) conceive ever new waves of imagi¬ 
nation or desires every moment”. Unless one keeps in 
mind these two meanings of the word ‘ buddhi ’, namely, 

( i ) the discerning and deciding mental organ, and 
(ii) Desire, it will not be possible to clearly understand the 
true import of the exposition of the word ‘ buddhi' in the 






GITA, TRANSLATION & COMMENTARY, C SAP. II 887 


§§ 5f5«irTr i 

trr^ grri^sr; i» » 

gimTriTrJT: I 

%qrfq^qqf5yr ii 8^ u 

^nfh^^JrarTfRT cT q r q i d^cGSR I 

s^T^FrnimJTqiT if^: ^?ir^ ^ u 88 ii 

doctrine of Karma-Yogu. The Blessed Lord now shows 
how when the Discerning Reason is not steady or con¬ 
centrated, the Mind is continually disintegrated by 
different desires, and the man runs after different pursuits, 
wishing to-day to do something for getting a son, and 
to-morrow something else for attaining heaven, etc.—] 

(42) 0 Partlui! (those) fools who rejoice in the words 
(showing the gain to be made) appearing n the Vedas 
(Karma-kandu), and who say tliat nothing else is of 
importance, say in a flowery way that; (43) ''By means of 
many Actions (such as, Yajhas, Yagas, etc.), one obtains the 
fruit of (re-)birth, and (birth after birth) pleiisures and 
prosperity anj obtained”; and these (people) witli a desire- 
filled Mind, who run after heaven, (''4) are attracted by 
those words, and become immersed in ])leasures and 
prosperity, and thereby their vyavasnyatmika buddhi (that 
is, their Reason which decides between the Doable and the 
Not-Doable) cannot (ever) be concentrated (thai is, fixed on 
one point). 

[The above three stanzas make up only one sentence, and 
contain a description of Jnana-less ritualists following 
the Mimaihsa path, who are continually engrossed in the 
performance of sacrificial rites in the shape of Yajnas or 
Yogas solely for the selfish purposes of attaining one object 
to-day and another object to-morrow according to the 
Karma-kanda prescribad by the Srutis and the Smrtis ; and 
this description has been made on the basis of the. 




888 


GlTA-RAHASYA OE KARMA-YOGA 


§§ %5n?Tf|r^«ir w#t i 

f^RT^cT^'-ar fir^r»T^*T srrfWJ^« » 

Upanisads. For instance, it is stated in the Mundako- 
panisad that; 

istapUrtath niamjavuina mrislham liainjac chreijo vedayante 

prattULdhah I 

ndkaifiia pTSpie h' sukrte 'nuhlmtventafn lokam hlnataravi 

vd visanti li 
{Mun. 1. 2.10). 

that is, “these fools, who believe that only the ‘performance 
of sacrificial ritual’ (istdpurlai'n) is meritorious and that 
nothing else is meritoriou.s, come hack to this mortal 
world after having enjoyed happiness in heaven ’’; 
and similar statements, derogative of Jhana-less Karma 
(ritual) are also to he found in the Isavasya and Katha 
Upanisads (Katha. 2. 5; Isa. 9. 12). It is true that these 
people, who, without awiuiring the Knowledge of the 
Paraniesvara, are steeped in the performance of Karma 
(ritual), obtain the fruits of their re,spective ritual in the 
shape of heaven etc. But, as their Desire is entangled to-day 
in this ritual and the next day in some other ritual, and is 
straying about in all directions, they never attain Release, 
how many soever times they may have gone to heaven. In 
order to obtain Release, the organ of Reason must be 
steady or concentrated on a single point. For the present, 
the Blessed Lord says only as follows—] 

(45) O Arjuna ! as the Vedas (consisting of the Karma- 
kandii) deal (in this way) only witli the subject-matter of tlie 
three constituents, do you become ‘nistraigunya’ (that is, 
trigundtUa), (that is, ‘beyond the reach of the three consti¬ 
tuents’—I’rans.'', ‘nitya-saUvaslkd (that is, abiding in eternal 
Truth—Trans.*), and free from the Opposites (of happiness and 
unhappiness etc.); and without being steeped in the selfish 
interests of ‘yogakf^cma’ etc., become Self-devoted {dtmavdn). 

* The author hns retained in his Marathi translation, the word 
‘nityaiattvastha’ from the original, and in the commentary he has 
explained it as being synonymous with ‘niatrtiiytinya ’ or ‘trigiinuiltid ; 





G ITA, TRANSLATION & COMM ENTARY, C HAP. II 889 


[‘Inuijunijii the ‘worldly life {s(mitiilro) of Prakrti 

made up of the three con.stituents Ndtha, rajas, and lamas’; 
and it hay been clearly shown in the Gita-Rah isya (p. 314 
and 353,1 that the true Brahmana is beyond that, and that 
worldly life is made up of the perishable Opposites of happi¬ 
ness and unhappiness, life and death etc. It has been 
stated in tlu! 43rd stanza of this very chapter, that people, 
W'ho follow tho Miniaibsa doctrine, perform the Yajnas etc. 
prescribed by the Srutis, in order to obtain the happiness 
pertaining to this worldly life of Prakrti or Maya, and that 
they are entirely steeped in these practices ; son e perform a 
sacrificial ritual in order to obtain a son, whereas others 
perform some other sacrilicial rite iri order that rain should 
fall. All this ritual is necessary for ‘the maintenance of 
worldly lii'e , that is, fur‘.yof/n/.'.smri’. It is, therefore, clear 
that on(j who wishes to attain Release, must go iieycjnd these 
ritualistic practices, which are the result of tlie saliva, rajas 
and lamas constituents, and which bring about only l/oga- 
L-sama, and muyt concentrate his attention oji tlie Parabrah- 
nian, Which is beyond all this. And the words ‘nirdvamdva’ 
(beyond the Opposites- -Tran:!.) and 'idruofjaksima' (beyond 
the anxiety for new acquisitions and the proteRion of old 
acqui,sitions--Trans.) have been used above to c(.)nvey this 
idea. In this place, a doubt is likely to arise as to how yoc/a,- 
ksema will be carried on, if thes(! desire-promi ted (kUmya) 
but this is difficult to undoratand, as there seems no reason for 
repeating tho idea. The late Mr. Telaiig, therefore, translates ‘sattva’ 
here as 'courage’ ; and Dr. Besaiit as ‘purity’. As is one of the 

three constituents, and as the Blessed Lord has jnsf asked Arjuna 
to be ‘be)'ond the three constituents’, ‘nityamtlva.tka’ cannot be 
understood as referring to the ‘satlra’ constituenc. Therefore, 
Prof, W. D. P. Hill {BhucjamdguTi^ Ox. Univ. Press, 1928, p. 120) 
has translated tho word 'saliva’ in its more general sense of ‘Truth’, 
which hag been adopted by me. Sadiishiva Shaslii Bhida has got 
over the difficulty by explaining ‘nislraiyunya’ as ‘free from the 
desires to enjoy pleasures arising from the three coi'stituents’, and 
by then explaining ‘nityasattvastha’ as meaning ‘possessing tho 
sattvika qualities of equability, perseverance, enthusiasm’ etc,— 
Translator. 




890 


GiTA-EAHASYA. OR KAEMA-YOGA 


ritualistic performances prescribed in the Karma-kanda are 
not carried on (Gl. Ea. pages 405 and 535). The reply to 
that question is not given here; but when this subject 
comes again later on in Chapter IX, it is stated that the 
Blessed Lord looks after this yoqaksema {i. e., ‘bestows the 
things wanted and preserves the security of the things 
possessed’—Trans.); and it is only in these two places that 
the word 'yoqaksema appears in the Gita (See Gi. 9. 23, and 
my commentary thereon). The word 'nityasaUvastha means 
the same as 'Irigunatita’ (beyond the three constituents); 
because, it is stated later on that by the continual growth 
of the saflm constituent, one acquires the ‘frigunufltavastha' 
(the state of being beyond the three constituents—Trans.), 
and that that is the true ‘siddhuoasiliu’ (the state of Perfec¬ 
tion—Trans.), (Gi. 14.14 and 20, Gi. Ea. pp. 226 and 227). In 
short, the advice given here is that one should give up the 
desire-prompted ritual prescribed by the Mimamsa school for 
obtaining yogaksema, which is based on the three consti¬ 
tuents, and go beyond the Opposites of happiness and 
unhappiness etc., and become hrahnia-nistha (devoted to the. 
Brahman) or dtma~nisthu (devoted to the Atman). But, it 
must be borne in mind at the same time that the injunction 
to become dtma-nis^ia does not mean that all this ritual 
should totally and for all intents and purposes be given up. 
The adverse criticism made in the above stanza of the 
desire-prompted ritual prescribed by the Vedas, or the 
inferiority which is shown of that ritual, is not the 
inferiority of the ritual itself, but of the desire-prompted 
Eeason behind it. If this desire-prompted Eeason does not 
govern the Mind, mere sacrificial ritual does not in any 
way close the door to Release (Gl. Ea, pp. 404 to 408). That 
is why the Blessed Lord has given it as Ilis definite and 
most valuable opinion later on in the beginning of the 18th 
chapter (Gi. 18. 6), that these very ritualistic performances 
prescribed by the Mimamsa writers should certainly be 
performed, for the purification of the Mind {ciltusuddhi), and 
for public welfare {lohisaiuqraha), giving up the Hope for 
Fruit ( phaLdsd ) and Attachment (saiiqa). When you take 
together these two statements made in two different places. 



GlT5, TRANSLATION & COMMENTARY, CHAP, H 891 


rlRT^^% WlSPn^^T fq^nsTfl*. 11 I 

in the Oita, it heuomea quite clear that the 'inferiority of 
the Miuiam:;aka Karina-kaiida shown in tlie iticuazan in this 
chapter ha;' reference to tlio desire-promptoil Reason, and 
not onl> to the ritual. With thii; object in mind, it has 
iieeii stated in the Bhagavata that; 

tviiokfam <uxi kiirvnnu nih^iiiiKjo ’rjHlaiu Ismie I 
iiau'ikaniiija/h lablialr snidhii'u r(HV)iarUia i>htlairulih ii 

(Bhag. 11. ;i. 46 ), 

that i.s, “the ‘recital of friiit:.: { plialasrii i. )' to be 
obtained by the perforiruvnoe of Vedic ritual, which hair 
been given in tb.o Yedas, luc. boon given ‘ rocaiiariha’, 
that i,';’, only in order tliat the -porson w'lo performs 
the ritual should find it agreeable: and therefore, that^ 
man wfio, instead of performing such ritual for obtain¬ 
ing tlm promised fruit, performs it unattachally (with a 
nihsahfjtt Roa.son), that is to say, after giving up the Hope 
for Erui'-, and with the sole intention of dedicating it to the 
Isvara, attains the ‘ iKiitiktinnija-Khlilld' (the Perfection 
of 'Desireless Action)”, In short, the Bummar;v )f the advice 
in the Cita is, that althoiigli it has been stated n the Vodas 
that a xiarticular sacrificial ritual slioiild he performed for 
a particular pni'i)Ose, yet, orio should not fio taken in by 
that Desire, hut should perform the ritual 1 ecauso it is 
‘ naiilarii i fhat is, becamso the i)erformance of the ritual is a 
duty ; ihat, one should give up the desirt-x romptedness 
of one’s Reason, but not the ritualistic sacrifices (G'i. 17, 11); 
and that tire other rites should also be x^^ufcirmed in the 
same way. And tbe same meaning has been expro.ssed in 
the subseriuent stanzas, ] 

(46) To that extent to whicli there is :i use (tliat is, 
necessity) for a well when there is a flood oAvater every¬ 
where (clearly, there is no necessity whatscever), to the 
same extent is there :i,ny necessity of the Ved is (containing 
the rifualistic Kanna-kanda) for tlie enlightericd Biahmana 
(that is to say, for him, there is no more any necessity of the 
Vedic Kanna-kanda which describes desire-fulliking ritual). 




892 


GITA-RAHASYA OR KARMA-YOGA 


[ There is no difference of opinion as to the broad meaning 
(phalitartha) of this stanza; but, commentators have entered 
into a useless hair-splitting discussion about the terms used 
in it. mruaiahsaiuplutodake'' is a compound phrase in the 
seventh case (locative case); but if it is looked upon not 
merely as the locative case, nor as an adjectival phrase 
<iualifying the word ‘ udapUmi ’, but as the ‘ mti sapfami ’ 
(locative absolute), one can syntactically work out the 
sentence in a simple way as; sarvaldhf<a?'nplutvdake sati 
udapaiw. yuvun arlhah (m sralpatr' api prayajanafn vidyafe) 
tuvan vijanatah hrahmanattija surm&u vrdem urlliah ”, 
without taking any outside words as implied; and this also 
gives the following clear and simple meaning:—“Just as 
no one cares for wells when there is water everywhere, 
(because drinking-water can be had atiywhere without 
difficulty and sumptuously), so has the man, who has 
attained Knowledge, no more any use for mere ‘ Vedic ’ 
ritual like sacrificial Yajnas etc ”, The Vedic ritual has 
to be performed for obtaining the final Release-giving 
Knowledge, and not merely for obtaining heaven ; and that 
man who has already obtained this Knowledge, has nothing 
new to learn by performing Vedic ritual. That is why it is 
stated later on in the 3rd chapter of the Gita (3. 17) that “to 
him who has acquired Know'ledge, there is no more any duty 
left in the world”. When one can without difficulty obtain 
as much pure water a,s desired from a large lake or from 
a river, who will even look at a well ? In such circum¬ 
stances, no one attaches the slightest importance to a well. 
In the last chapter of the Kanatsujatiya (Ma. Bha. 
IJdyo. 45. 26), this very stanza occui-s again with a slight 
verbal difference ; and the meaning of it has been given in 
the commentary on it by Madhvacarya in the same way 
as above; and in the Sukanuprasna, where the relative 
worth of Jhana (Knowledge) and Karma is being described, 
it is clearly stated that “ nu le. ( jnaninah) karma prasam- 
samti kupam nadyUm pihann iva”, that is, “ just as one who 
gets water from the river, does not attach any importance to 
a well, so do ‘they’, that is, the Jnanins, not attach the 
slightest importance to Karma” (Ma. Bha. San. 240. 10). 





GiTA, TRANSLATION & COMMENTARY, CHAP. II 893 


[ii the same way, ia the 17th stanza of tlie Pandavagita, 
the simile of a well is iised for saying that the 
man \vho, ignoring Vasudeva, worships other gods, is 
like a fool who, “trdto jaluiavUire kupnh vaficchati 
dwr/zia^jh”, that is, “ being thirsty, and being able to get 
drinking-water on the banks of the Bhagirethl (Ganges), 
still oriives for a wellIt is not tha^ this simile 
appears only in the Vedic Sanskrit texts: but it has 
been adopted even in tl\e Pali Buddhistic books. The 
dictum that tlie man who has destroyed Thirst does 
not have anything further to acquire, is a cceptable also 
to Buddhism; and in referring to it, it is called a 
'drs/anla\ and appear.^ in the Pali text called Udana 
(U. 7. 9) in the form of the stanza “ kiiii ht.y ra udupadena 
dpd C(’ .-^(ibbudd wuuui", which means, ‘ what is the use of a 
well after water can bo had in all places IVc experience 
it even now-a-days in ])ig towns, that when a person has 
taken a water-pipe in the house, he does not any more care 
for a well. Prom these facts, and especially from the 
exposition in the Sukanuprasna, the reader will realise the 
appropriateness of the simile used in the GiR, and see that 
the meaning of this stanza as given by me above is straight¬ 
forward and correct. But commoirtators on the Gita 
analyse the serrtonce in this stanza in a si if,'htly different 
way, whether because by acauqiting this nterpretation 
.some inferiority becomes attached b.) the Vedas, or because 
they wish to keep intact the doctrinal proposition, that ‘ a 
■Ihanin need no more perform Action, because Knowledge 
includes the performance of Action They t ike the word 
‘/awin' as implied in the first, and the wo’d 'yavan’as 
implied in the second part of the stanza, atu analyse the 
stanza as f(jll()ws ; “ ndapane yiivdn aiihah Idtmi eva sarvatah- 
sadiplutodakt'. yalha mnqxidyati' Idfha ydvan, mrvesu vedesu 
(uihuh Idvnn vijdnalah hruhniunasya m/hpadyate”, that is to 
say, “ to that extent to which wells can he put to use for 
the purpo.se of liathing and of drinking water, to the same 
extent can use be made of large lakes (mrvatahsafnplatu- 
duke) for the same purpose ; in the same way, Jnanins can, 
■by means of their Knowledge, obtain from the Vedas as 



894 


GlTA-RAHASYA OR KARMA-YOGA 


much benefit as it is possible to obtain ”, But as, accord¬ 
ing to this interpretation, the word ‘ lavlin ’ has to be taken 
as implied in the first part of the stanza, and the word 
‘ yuvan ’ in the second part of the stanza, I have not 
accepted it. The interpretation and working out (anvaya) 
of the stanza adopted by me is arrived at without taking 
any words as implied; and, as is quite clear from the 
previous stanzas, this stanza is intended to give expression 
to the inferiority of the pure (that is, Jnana-less) Karma- 
kanda in the Vedas. But, the inference that because a 
person who ha.s attained Knowledge ha.s no u.se for the 
ritual of Yajnas or Yagas, he need not perform them, and 
may give them up altogether, is not borne out by the Gita ; 
because, although a Jhaniu does not care for the fruit to be 
obtained by this ritual, yet, he must go on performing the 
ritual, if not for the fruit, at least because the performance of 
Yajfias and Yagas is his duty as laid down in the Sastras; 
and, therefore, ho can never give up the ritual. The Blessed 
Lord has given it as llis definite opinion in unmistakeable 
terms in the 18th chapter, that though a Jnanin may have 
no Hope for Fruit, yet,hc must desirelossly perform Ya,jnas 
and Yagas in the same way as ho desirelessly performs 
other acts (See my commentary on the previou.s .stanza and 
on Gl, 6. 19); and the Biassed Lord now further clearly 
states this version about Desireless Action in the next 
stanza- - 

■■■ Annie Bosant and BbiigvaudttS {JlhagavadfiUi, Theo. Pub. 
House, 19;i0, p 42) translate this stanza us : “ All the Vedas are 

as useful to an enlightened Brahinuoa as is a tank in a place covered 
all over with water”, which is similar to the interpretation, 
of the author. Telang translates it as; “To the instructed 
Brabuiatia, there is in all the Vodas as much utility as in a reservoir 
of water into which waters how from all side.s ” (B. B. E. Series, 
Vol VHl, p. 48); and W. D. P. Ilill’a translation is practically 
tho same (the JihagavadijUTi^ 0.\f. Univ. Press, 1928, p. 121), Both 
these latter authors have attached explanatory notes, to which the 
reader is referred. The divergence is based on the interpretation of 
‘sarvutah namplute^ which is translated by some as “ filled from all 
sides”, and by others as, "when there is a flood on all sides”—Trans. 



GlTA,TEANSI ATION & COMMENTARY, CHAP. 11 895 

§§ nr 'Tr%5 i 

ITT % ^rs^c^iffai i> n 

(47^ Your iiuthority extends only to the performanee of 
Action; (obtaining or not obtaining) the iYuit, is never 
withiir your authority (that is, never within your control); 
(therefore,) do not be one who performs Action with the 
(avaricious) motive (in the mind) that a particular fruit should 
be obtained (of his Action); nor do you also insist on not- 
performing .Vetion. 

i Tlie four quartor.s of tins sUiir/a are nml ually comple- 
mcintajy; and, therefore, without their oreidapping each 
other, the entire import of the Karma-Yoga is given in a 
short and beautiful form; nay, one may even safely say 
that these four parts of the staiiKa are the i^ihih-sulri of the 
Karma-Yoga, It is .stated to begin with, that “your 
authority extends only to the performance of Action”. But 
as the Emit (h an Action is iirseparahlo from the Action, 
there is room for the doubt that, ‘he who has the authority 
to perform the Action, has also the authority to take the 
fruit, since ho who t)wns the tree, also owns the fruit’; 
therefore, in order to solve that difficulty, the Blessed Lord 
has prononneed in a clear way in. the 2nd (luartcr of the 
stanza that, “your authority does not extend tr the Fruit” ; 
and then 1 le has pronounced the hrd proposition, which arises 
from that dictum, namely, “do not he O7io who performs 
Action having in mind the Hope f(7r Vnni’ . {kai-nuiphula- 
Iii’luh’, is a Bahuvritii-saniasa, thus, ‘ Javr ii.aphale hetur 
s(i kariiuip]ial(iheluh'), (ttiatis, ‘he is i kannaphala- 
heliih, whose motive is in the Fruit of the Action’—'Trans,). 
But someone may advance the argument that because 
an Action and the fruit of it are mutually interlinked, one 
must give up the fruit (Action V —Trans.) at the same time 
as giving up the Hope for Fruit. In order to make it clear 
that such an inference would not be correct, the clear advice 
has been given, that one should give up the Hope for Fruit 
hut, at the same time, “ one should not insist on not doing 
Action, that is, on giving up .Action”. In short, saying 
that one should perform Action, does not aim amt to saying 



896 


gTta-rahasya or karma-yoga 


§§ ^ r5TffSrT I 

^ II a<i n 

^or iicrt ^ f T%^mT:?ir3ni i 

l#r ?^?:arfTf?ET=Esj ^qorr: ’K^tcr^r*. n a*i n 
^5r?fr? i 

cT^JT^mr^ ^r'- n 'ao ii 

that one should entertain the Hope for Fruit; and con¬ 
versely, saying that one should give up the Hope for Fruit, 
does not amount to saying that one should eschew Action. 
The meaning of this stanza is, that one should necessarily 
perform one’s duty, having given up the ‘ Hope for Fruit 
and that, one should not he attached to the Action, and 
at the same time should not give up the Action— “fyatju 
na yukta ilia karruami najri ragah” (Yoga. 5. 5. 54); 
and the meaning has been emphasised again in the 
18th chapter, where it is stated that the obtaining of 
Fruit is not a matter within one’s own control, and that it 
is necessary to have the co-operation of many other things 
for that purpose (Gi. 18. 14-16 and Rahasya, Chapter V. 
p. 154 and Ch. XII). The Blessed Lord now clearly defines 
the characteristics of Karma-Yoga by saying that, such 
Action means ‘ Yoga ’ or ‘ Karma-Yoga —■ ] 

(48) O Dhananjaya 1 casting off Attachment and looking 
upon as alike the being fruitful and unfruitful ( of Action), 
perform Action being ‘yogastha' (that is, ‘steadfast in 
the path of Karma-Yoga’—Trans.); the (mental) state 
of being Equable (towards the Action being fruitful 
or unfruitful ) is known as (Karma-) Yoga. (49) For, 
(external) Karma is by far inferior to the Yoga (of the 
Equability ) of Reason; (therefore) surrender yourself 
to (this equable) Reason; the ‘phalahetavah' (that is, 
those, who perform Action only with an eye to the Fruit) 
are ^hrpana’ (that is, low, or on a lower level). (50) He, 
who is steeped in the (equable) Reason remains untouched 
both by sin or merit in this (world); therefore, take shelter 
in Yoga. The cleverness (skilfulness or trick) of performing 



GITA, TRANSLATION & COMMENTARY. CHAP. II 897 


Action ( without acquiring merit or sin ) is known as (Karma-) 
Yoga. 

I The description of the nature of Karma-Yoga given in 
these stanzas is very important, and I have to refer the 
reader to the fliscussion of that subject in Chapter III 
of the Grta-Rahasya (pp. 7(* to 87). But, the proposition 
of Karma-Yoga mentioned in the 49th stanza, namely that, 

‘ the Reason is superior to the Action is of utmost 
importance. As the word ' buddhi ' (RuasDn) in these 
stanzas is not preceded by the adjective ‘ vyuMimi/a/uiikd’, it 
must 1)0 understood in this stanza as meaning ‘desire’ or 
‘understanding’. Home persons try to interpret the word 
'hudd/ti ' liere us meaning ‘Jhaua’, and to interpret the 
stanza as moaning that ’ Karma is of less importance than 
Jnana ’; but this interpretation is nut correci,. Because, as 
the description of Eciuability given in the 48th stanza 
is continued in the 49th and the subsequent stanzas, the 
word 7)adi7/M ’ must be intorpretod as moaning an ‘equabi- 
lising huddhi’. The goodness or badness of an act does not 
depend on the act itself, and though the act may bo one and 
the same, it becomes good or had according to the good or 
evil intention of the doer; therefore, the Reason is superior 
to the Action. As this and other principles of morality 
have been dealt with in Chapters IV, XII, and XV 
of the Gita-Rahasya (p. 119; p. 530; and ]ip, 668 to 675), 

I do not propose to deal with them here in a more ex¬ 
haustive way. It has been stated above in the 41st 
stanza that in order that the Desiring Reason {vusanal- 
ma/ai buddhi) should remain equable and pui-e, the Discerning 
Reason {I’ljavasih/ulniuka biidd/u), which decides about the 
Doable and the Not-Doable must in the first instance become 
steady. This has boon already stated above in the 41st 
stanza. Therefore, the word 'mmijabuddhi' (Equable Reason) 
means and includes both the steady Discerning Reason 
{t'ycmu.'tdya/maku huddhi) and PureDesire (vdsai'd/nmlca huddhi)-y 
as this Equable Reason is the basic structure on which 
whether Pure Conduct or Karma-Yoga is based, the Blessed 
Lord has, with reference to His statement in the 39th stanza 
(that He would explain to Arjuna the ‘device’ or ‘Yoga’ by 



898 


GITA-RAHASYA OR KARMA-YOGA 


§§ lf%5=fRr t^fr^T TT^Tf^oi: l 

3TTiT^\^f^gTTrT: ^T=5gj;r^;?Tm?IH: II II 

cT?r 1T?CTTT% ^ II II 

meant! of which Arjuna would not ha affected by Action, 
though he might perform it), explained to Arjuna in this 
stanza that, that ‘device’ or ‘skill’ consists in ‘keeping 
one’s Reation, steady, holy, equahle, ;ind untainted’, and 
that it is known as ‘ Yoga’; and He has in this way defined 
the word ‘Yoga’ twice over. Although the words “yogah 
Jairimi.sii kausahini.'' a\i]ieiU'iuQ in the 50th stanza are thus 
■capable of being interpreted in a fttraightforward way, 
some conunentat(,)r;:i have attempted to sti'etoh the words, 
and to interpret them to mean that, ' karuiasu yogah 
hausalam', that is to say, kousala or skill, means the 
Yoga in the performance of Action”. But, as there was 
no occasion here to give a definition of the word ‘ kausala ’, 
and the matter in point was to show the meaning of the 
word ‘Yoga’, this interpretation camiot be looked upon as 
correct. Besides, w'hen it is possible to inter-relate the 
words in a simple and straightforward way as 'karmasu 
kausalam’, it is not proper to transpose the words so as to 
inter-relate them as ‘karmafoi, yogah’. The Blessed Lord now 
says that when a man perfinans Action in this way with an 
equable Reason, there is no neglect of worldly activities, 
and at the same time, one cannot but achieve complete 
Perfection or Release—] 

(51) Tlie Jfianins, when acting in union with (Equable) 
Reason, having abandoned the Fruit of Action, and becoming 
free from the shackles of births, reach the state (of the 
Paramesvara) w’here tliere is no unhappiness. (52) When 
your Reason shall have crossed the turgid enclosure of 
Ignorance, you will become indifferent towards whatever you 
may have heard or have to hear. 

[That is to say, yon will not desire to hear anything more; 
because, you will have already obtained the Fruit which 
can be obtained by hearing these things. The word ‘ nirveda' 
is primarily used to signify ‘being tired of worldly life’, or. 




GITA'TRANSLATION&CO.VIMENTARY. CliAP, II 899 


3T^JT 1 

§§ ^'r vfT^r i 

Tr-qrfTi^f: 1% sr»irq?r T^Jrra'irr a^fr t%^ 9 hs ti 

‘ ReimiKiiation’. In this Ktanza, it ordinai-ily means 
‘tiredness’ or ‘not wanting’. It will bo soni from the 
subsequent stanza.s that this ‘tiredness’ is only with 
refereiK-e t'j the ritual x)rescribed in the Srutis, which 
relato.s to tlio objects of the three constituents.] 

( 53 ) When your Reason, confused by ( all kinds of) 
sentences from the Vedas, will become fixed md immoveale 
in the state of nientid absorption, then will you attain this 
Yoga (in the shape of an Equable Reason). 

|In short, as ha,s been .stated alcove in i. 44, when a 
person, being taken in by the description of obtainable 
fruits given iti Vedic hymns, falls into the turmoil of 
performing a particular act for obtaining a particular fruit, 
his Reason gets all the more confused instead of becoming 
steady, Therefore, Arjnna is advised to give up paying 
attention to such statements of advice, and to attain a fixed 
concentration <4 the Mind, so that ho would attain the 
Karma-Yoga consisting of Equability of Reason, and be 
able to perform Action without incurriup: any sin, and 
without being in need of any further advicf. It is stated 
that the Karma-yogi n, whose Reason or j/rcjfla has become 
jstoady ( i. e., n!/uf(t ) in this way, i,s called a Sthitaprajha 
and Arjuna now asks how such a person acts or behaves.] 

Arjuna said ; (5^) O Kesava 1 who sliould be called a 

< sarnddhistha sthitaprajna ' ( that is, the Steady-in-Reason, 
steeped in Mental Absorption—Trans.) ? How does such a 
Sthitaprajna, speak, sit or walk f^tcll me that). 

[I n tliis staii'/a, the word " hhdsa' has been used in the 
meaning of ‘/u/c.sd'/ia ’ (charactoiistics) ; and I have trans¬ 
lated it as meaning ‘ who should he called ’, having regard 
to the root, ‘ hhof; of the word ‘ bhasa ’. If has boon made 



900 


GlTA-RAHASYA OR KARMA-YOGA 


?FT»Ti5i: ir^RTfTPi: i 

3TTfWf%erTfIRT 5SJ 11 li 

I:^^JgnTWT: fgiTrT^^^t I 

sfrcRPWT^r^: n '^5 n 

^^STRGl^l^ffrTrJrn:?! ) 

5rTfM5T??r^ 5T SIS rT^?T sTfir sTfcrfHarr n ii 
?r?r ^?;rr ^i?i ^sf pfR : i 

?f^^rafTf7^?iT^rV?T^^?T sTirr srmracfT n n 

^?Tr TfRi^n:^ tf|fr •• i 

T^ISC?T^«T II '^% II 

clear in Chapter XII of the Gita-Rahasya (p, 51CI 
to 527) that the mode of life of the Sthitaprajna iw the 
basis of the doctrine of Karma-Yoga, and from this fact 
the importance of the description which follows will 
become apparent.] 

The Blessed Lord said : (55) O Parthu ! when (a person) 

abandons all desires (that is, vnsmin) of his heart, and is 
pleased by himself in his own self, then he is called a 
Sthitapiajha. (56) He, whose heart is not agitated in the 
midst of calamities, who is void of longing in pleasures, and 
from whom affection, fear, and wrath have departed, is 
called a Steady-in-Reason sage (sthitaprajna muni —Trans.) 
(57) His Reason is (said to be) steady whose Mind is without 
Attachment in all things, and who feels no exultation 
or aversion about the agreeable or disagreeable which 
befalls him. (58) When a person draws in (his) senses from 
the objects (such as, sound, touch etc.) of tlie senses, as the 
tortoise draws in its limbs (such as, hands, feet, etc.) from 
all sides, then his Reason is (said to be) steady. (59) The 
objects of sense leave the foodless person, yet, the relish 
(that is, the sweetness) in them, does not leave him; but 
after he has experienced the Parabrahman, (all the objects 
together with) the relish also (in them), (that is, the objects 
of sense as also the relish in them) leaves him. 



GITA, TEANSLATION & ajMMENTAEY, CHAP. II 901 


[The senses are fed by food. Therefore, wlien a person 
does not take food, or fasts, the senses become weak, and 
incapable of enjoying their respective objects. But getting 
rid in this way of the enjoyment of objects of sense, is the 
external action of enforced weakness. The d jsire (relish) 
for the objects of sense is not thereby reduceil; therefoi-e, 
one should acquire that Knowledge of the Brahman, by 
which such Desire will be destroyed; when a person has thus 
experienced the Brahman, his Mind, and at the same time, 
his senses also come automatically under control; and it is 
not necessary to fast or do anything else in order to obtain 
control over the senses. That is what this stanza means. 
And the same meaning is clearly convoyed later on in 
the stanzas in Chapter VI (Bee Gl. 6, 16, 17; as 
also 3. 6, 7), where it is stated that the Yog in should eat 
moderately, and that he should not give up food or pastime 
altogether. In short, it must bo borne in mind that the 
Gita looks upon fasting and other practices, v/hich weaken 
the body, as one-sided, and therefore, eschewable; and lays 
down the doctrine that, moderate food and pastime, and 
the Knowledge of the Brahman, are the best means of 
controlling the senses. Home commentators interpret the 
word ‘ rasa ’ in the stanza as meaning ‘ the sweet, bitter, 
and other tastes experienced by the tongue rnd interpret 
the stanza to mean that though one can )vercorae the 
objects of the other senso,s by fasting, the -elish of the 
tongue, that is, the desire for food and drink, is intensified, 
instead of being destroyed, by fasting for many days; and, 
there is also a stanza to the same effect in tire Bhagavata 
(Bhag. 11. 8. 20). But in my opiniou, it is not correct to 
interpret this stanza in the Gita in that way ; because, that 
meaning becomes inconsistent with the seci,mii part of the 
stanza. Besides, the word used in the Bhagavata is not 
‘ra.sa’but ‘ rusaiiu>h’; and we also do not lind there the 
second part of the stanza in the Gita. It is. therefore, not 
proper to consider the stanza in the Gita, as meaning the 
same thing a,s the stanza in the Bhagavata The Blessed 
Lord now says in more explicit terms, in the two following 
stanzas, that it is not possible to obtain complete control 



902 


GiTA-RAHASYA OR KARMA-YOGA 


^TcRTt srfq i 

swT5£rri% it;t: n n 

cRR WtSt grp an^TcT wgr. i 
^ fi sr^n srfafBrn« » 

»ver the senses, except by the Realisation of the 
Brahman—] 

(60) Because, O son of Kunti, these boisterous senses forcibly 
curry away in an improper direction, the Mind of even the 
intelligent person, who makes efforts merely (for controlling 
the senses). (61) (Therefore), one should control all these 
senses and become ‘ ynkta' (that is,jyo_'/tt-yM/;;o) and solely 
devoted to Me. His Reason is (said to have become) 
steady, whose senses are thus subject to his control. 

[In this stanza, it is .stated that one should obtain control 
over the i3ensos by moderate eating, and should at the same 
time, become ‘ matpurai/am ’, that is, should fix his mind on 
the Isvara, in order to obtain the Knowledge of the 
Brahman; and the reason for that will be clear from my 
interpretation of the 59th stanza. Even Manu has given 
a warning to the man who merely controls his senses, when 
he says: “halavun indriyat/ramo vidva'ntsani api karsati" 
(Manu. 2. 2-15), (that is, “ the powerful group of the senses 
drags about even the wise man ”—Trans.); and the same 
meaning is conveyed by the 60th stanza above. In short, 
the implied import of these three stanzas (that is, 59, 60, 
and 61—Trans.) is as follows; namely that, one who 
has to become a ‘ Sthitaprajna’ must moderate his food 
a7id pastimes, and acquire the Knowledge of the Brah¬ 
man ; that, the Mind becomes free from the slavery of 
the senses only when one acquires the Knowledge of 
the Brahman; and that, the device of mortifying the 
body is only external and not efficacious; and the words 
‘ viatpardyana ’ also give the first indication of the Path of 
Devotion (See Gi. 9. 34). The word ‘ yukta ’, which has been 
used in the above stanza, means ‘ one who has been perfected 
by means of Yoga In Gita 6. 17, the word ‘ yukia ' means 
‘ moderate But this word is used in the Gita mostly to 



(IITA, TRANSLATION & COMMENTARY. CHAP. 11 9()S 


^ffr#3Tr?T^ ^FTPRIr^IMrSf^lTI^a li II 
^gfrf^5Tl|^l%5IT?ft lT%5TT^TrSTOi^T^ II II 

3TTf*T?i#r%M?n?flr ii^T?*Tr%r^EjT% n is u 

mean ‘ the person who has beeomo an adept in bearing both 
pain and i^leasuro with a placid mind, iiy practising the 
Yoga of Equable Reason, which has been prescribed in the 
Cita ’. (See Gi. 5, 23). A person who ha.s btcome an adept 
in this way is known as a '.^llufapnijna', und his state is 
known as the ‘ midhavdsHtd ' (the state (.)1' Perfection); that 
state hius been described at the end o'; this chapter, 
and also again at tho end of Cluiptor V and of Chapter XII. 
The Bliissed Lord has so far explamod wliat is 
necessary for becoming a Bthitaprajha, alter having lost 
pleasure in the objects of the senses. n.E n )w fir.st explains 
in tlie following staiiMi how pleasure arises in the objects 
of the senses, liow this pleasure gives rise to the emotions of 
kuma (Desire), krodliu (Anger), etc., how m u is thereby ulti¬ 
mately ruined, as also how it is possible to overcome them.] 
(62) i'lic sahgn (that is, intimacy) of the nuin, wlio contem¬ 
plates on the objects of the senses, with these objects 
of sense, continually grows. From llii; intimacy, there 
grows later on kdma (tlnit is, the Desir; to possess those 
objects of the senses); (and when there is an obstruction in 
the matter of tli ^ satisfaction of this Desiie) from this Desire^ 
there arises Anger; (63) from Anger, tlicre arises sadmoha 
(that is, Indiscrimination); from Indiscrimination, confused 
memory ; from confusion of memor} , destruction of 
Reason; and from destruction of R(3ason, there arises 
the total destruction (of the man). (64) But lie (the man), 
whose Atman (that is, wliosc internal sense) is within his 
control, is satislied (in his Mind), thoug i he moves about 
among the objects of tlio senses, with senses which have 
escaped from love and hate, and which arc perfectly within 



904 


GiTA-EAHASYA OR KARMA-YOGA 


sr^^%rT^r snu f(%; ii n 

5nf^tT ST ^TmsTT I 

ST ’^misnirTi ^l[rrTS:^S=?T^^ l^rT •■ II II 

his control. (65) When the IMintl is satisfied, all his un¬ 
happiness is destroyed, because the Reason of the man, 
whose Mind is satisfied, is also immediately steadied. 

[It must he borne in mind that these two stanzas 
{that is, 64 and 65—Trans. ) clearly lay down the 
following propositions, namely, (i) the Sthitaprajfia does 
not give up either Action or the objects of sense, but 
merely the ‘safiya’ (intimacy), and moves about among 
the objects of the senses with an unattached frame of mind; 
and that (ii) the peace of mind which he obtains is not the 
result of giving up Action, but of giving up the Desire for 
Fimit of Action; because, except for this, there is no 
difference between this Sthitaprajfia and the Sthitaprajfia 
who follows the Path of Renunciation. .Both of them need 
the qualities of absence of Desire and peace of Mind; but 
the Sthitaprajfia of the Gita does not renounce Action, but 
desirelessly performs every kind of Action for universal 
good, and the other Sthitaprajfia does not do so: this is 
the important difference between the two (See Gi. 3. 25). 
But the commentators on the Gita, who favour the Path of 
Renunciation, look upon this difference as a minor difference, 
and for supporting their own doctrine, insist that the 
description of a Sthitaprajfia given here is of the Sthita¬ 
prajfia according to the Path of Renunciation. The Blessed 
Lord now describes those whose mind is not at peace, thereby 
more fully describing the nature of the Sthitaprajfia—] 

(66) The man, who is not ‘yukta’, (that is, who has not 
become yogayukta - as mentioned above), possesses neither 
(steady) Reason, nor bhavam (that is, Nistha, cr fixedness, 
in the shape of a firm Reason); who has not fixedness, can 
have no tranquility; and how can he who is not tranquil. 



GITA, TRAN STATION & COM MENTARY, CHAP. II 905 

sTtri ?TTg3fram5n^^TT% i» » 

rT^lT[?Jf1T f5T^'rcTn% i • 

STITT sn'HT'i^ >1 II 

^IT T?RTT ^^iJfTT?TT rT^^TT ITmr^ ^?nfr I 

?T^2Tf 5rriTi% »|fm% ^ 5%: u « 

acquire happiness ? (67) The Mind which follows in the 

wake of tlie senses, whicli roam about (that is, move), (among 
the objects of sense), enslaves the Reason of a man, just as 
the wind (enslaves) a boat in the water. (6f) Therefore, 
■O Arjuna ! liis Reason is (said to have become) steady, whose 
senses (are) controlled on all sides from the objects of sense. 

[In short, control of the senses by means of thi control of 
the Mind is at the root of all niean.s of reaching Perfection, 
When the scaises have become disintegrated on account of 
the objects of sense and run in all directions, it is not 
possible for a man even to get the desire of obtaining Self- 
knowledge. Afc; the desire is wanting, there is no resolute 
endeavour in that direction, and then there is neither 
tranquility nor happiness. Though this is what is meant, 
control of the senses docs not mean totally destroying the 
senses and giving up all Action altogether; anc, as is stated 
in the (i4th stan/,a, the me.ssage of the ilita is that 
one should perform all Action desirelossly, as has been 
shown in Chapter IV of the Gita-Rahasya,] 

(69) The Stliitaprajha is awake in that which is night for 
everyone else ; and such a Jrulnin looks upon that as night in 
which every other living being is awake. 

[This paradoxical description is metaphorical. Ingnorance 
means ‘darkness’ and Knowledge means ‘light’ (Gj, 14. 11). 
I’hat which the Ignorant dislike, that is, what to them is 
darkness, is desired by the Jrianin; and thai, in which the 
Ignorant are engrossed- that is, what for tliem is light— 
is ‘ darkness ’ for the Jhanin, that is to say, he 
does not want it. This is what is meant. For instance, 




906 


GITMAHASYA OR KARMA-YOGA 


rl^^JTr STR^tfSrT ^ ^TT-cWnflfW ^ II V90 II 

§§ f%^r!T W‘ ’frsrrjj; : i 

RTTITT T%^^r* ^ ^tf?cmT%T=sgrT% II II 

a Jnaiun looks upon desire-prompted Action as con¬ 
temptible, whereas ordinary pcH)ple are steeped in such 
Action; and that Desireless Action, which the Jnaniii 
likes, is disliked by others.] 

(70) Just as all water enters, from all sides, the sea, of which 
the shores are not transgressed, though it is being filled on 
all sides, so is (true) tranquility obtained only by that person 
who is entered by all objects of sense (without disturbing 
his tranquility) ; not by one, who desires the objects of sense 
(is it possible that this tranquility is acquired.) 

[This stLin7;a does not mean that one should abandon 
Action in order to attain tranquility ; what is meant is that 
the minds of ordinary people are confused by the Hope of 
Fruit, or by Desire, and their peace of mind is destroyed by 
the Action they perform ; but the Mind of the man who has 
reached the Siddhavastha (the state of Perfection) is not 
distressed by Hope of Bhuit. Whatever the number of 
Actions he has to perform, hie. iioace of Mind iir not 
disturbed, and he performs them remaining a.s peaceful ns 
the sea ; and he does not, therefore, suffer from pain or 
happiness. (See stanza 64 above and Gl. 4. 19). The 
Blessed hord now snmmari.se.>? this ,'mhject, and tolls Arjuna 
what this state of the Sthitapra.jha is called—] 

(71) He uloue acquires tranquility, who performs Action 
having given up all Desire (that is, nil Attachmeut) and 
become desireless, and who has not got mine-ness and 
egoism. 

!The word ‘ enrah ’ (performs Action) ha.s been interpreted 
by commentators who support the doctrine of Renunciation 
as meaning ‘ goes about begging’; but, that interpretation 
is wrong. The meaning which ha.s been given to the words 
■ caran' and ‘ curatain ’ in the 64th and the 67th stanzas 




GITA, TRANSLATION & COMMENTARY, CHAP II 907 


an# R'-iimi nr^a %iTf in’:?! i 

above must also be taken here. The Gita has nowhere 
preached that tlie Stbitaprajha should become a mendicant. 
On the other liand, it lias been clearly stated ir the 64th 
stanza, that ho .should freely ‘ move about among the objects 
of sense’, keeping his sense,s under control. Therefore, the 
word ‘ carali ’ must bo interpreted liora as ‘ performs Action ’ 
or ‘ takes part in worldly affairs ’. 8ri Samartha (Ramadasa) 
has given, in the latter half of the Dasabodha, an excellent 
description of how the ‘ de.sirele.ss sclent’ (Htl itaxirajna) 
takes part in worldly affairs; and the same is t le subject- 
matter of Chapter XiV of the Gita-Rahasya. J 
(/^) O I'ariha ! this is (called) tliat BiTilnuic state; having 
attained this, the man docs not icnmiu in igimniucc; and 
remaining in this state even at ihc end (that is, at the 
raonicut of death), be attains Release in the shape of 
‘ bmhrnariirvana’ (tli.at is, of merger in the Bralunan). 

['L’he Br4liniic state is the ultimate ami Uio best state in 
Karma-yoga (SeoGi. R.i. Ch. IX. pp. dll) and 344 1 ; and the 
important point about it is, l.bat when Lhi,s state 1ms been 
reached, there is no more any Ignorance. Thi.s important 
point is particularly menlionod here, becau.se, even if a 
man on any particular day experienc-n the Bridrmic state 
for a .short time, he does not thereby get any permanent 
benefit. Because, if that man Is not in that sta'e of mind 
at the monumt of death, ho cannot escape re-hirUi according 
to the desire which may be in las mind at the moment of 
death (See Gi. Ra. p. 398), Theroforo, in describing the 
Brahraic state in this stanza, it is particularly mentioned 
that the Sthitaprajiia maintains this state of mind even at 
the moment of death (cf. “antakulc 'pi", that is, ‘even at the 
monumt of death’). The importance of the Mind being 
pure at the moment of death has been descrioed in the 
Upanisads (Chan. 3. 14. 1; ITasna. 3. 10,), and later on in 
the Gita itself (Gi. 8. 5-10). As desire-prompted Action 
is the reason for being re-born several time.s, it is clear 



908 


GITA-RAHASYA or R lRMA-yOGA 


^rw^^Tirrnf jtiit f^cf^ns^^TT^: i 

that Dasira should he annihilated at least at the moment 
of death. And it naturally follows that in order that 
Desire should be annihilated at the moment of death, one 
must have practised the annihilation of Desire before one 
reaches the point of death ; l)ecau.s9, the act of destroying 
Desire i.s extremely difficult, and it is not only difficult hut 
absolutely impo.ssible for any one to be easily able to 
annihilate Desire, except by ‘ special divine blessing’. 
{visemnayratui). The doctrine that Desire should be pure 
at the moment of death ha.s been accepted not only in the 
Vedio religion but also in other religions (Boo Oita Ra. 
p. 614. J 

Thus ends, the Second Chapter entitled SamkHYA- 
YOGA in the dialogue between Sri Ktsiui and Arjuna on tlie 
Yoga included in the Science of the Brahman, (that is, on 
the Karraa-Yoga) in the Upanisad sung, (that is, told) by the 
Blessed Lord. 

[As there is a doscripLion of the Baitikbya or the 
Samiiyasa doctrine in the l);)giiming of this Chapter, it Is 
called Baihkhya-YogaBut one must not, on that 
account, think that the whole of the chapter contains no 
other subject. There are usually many !;uh.joct.s in one and 
the same chapter; but the chapter is named by reference 
to the subject which is in thn hegiiining, or is the most 
important one in the chapter (Bee C ltri-Rahasya Ch. XIV, 
p. 635. J 





cttV^ ^;jTfoi irf R^fr3nTi% ii ^ n 
cqrmiraraf ^ i 

rT^^ T%T%r^ ^ ^?nS?rJncg?n^ II ^ II 

CHAPTER III. 

[After the Blessed Lord h:ul uroved to Arjur i.i that the 
dread \vl ieh ho had fidt about killing Bhisina, Drtjna, and 
others was roolish, iiaving regartl to the innuortality and 
the non-lannntahility of the Atman according to Saihkhya 
philosophy, a rid made to Arjiina a short oxposi lion of his 
own duty, the principal suldoct-niatler of the (lita, namely, 
the exposition of the Karma-Yoga, was started in the 
Second ('hapto]'; and, after stating that the o ily skilful 
way, or Yoga, by which it was possible to perform Action 
without iucui'ving cither merit or sin, was to perform it 
with a disinterested franu! of mind, there is given a 
description, at the end, of the K'arma-Yogin Sti.iitapraina, 
whos(! lie.isoji lias thus become Kquable. Hut, tl'at does not 
exhaust the oxposii ion of tlio Karma-Yoga. 11 is; true that 
if any act is p.M-foniuMl witli a,n et|uahle frame u mind, oiur 
does not incur sin. But, if it cannot be disputed that 
E(iuahilil y of Keason is .superior to .4ctiou ((1 i. 'i, 49), them 
it would lie ((uite enough if one ma.kes (.me’s Iteason equable 
like lhat of a Htliitaprajha; and it does not follow that it 
is uoccssary to perform Action. Therefore, when this 
doubt has hoi’u raised by ..Arjmia, in the shape of a question, 
the Blessed Tvord lays down in this and in the next chapter,' 
that ‘ ..Action must he performed 

Arjima sai d :—(.1) O Janardana ! if it is Your opinion that 
the (Equablo-) Reason is superior to Action, thou, O Kesava ! 
why are You engaging me in a terrible Action (of war) ? 
(2) By this seemingly mixed (tha,t is, doiilile-meaningccl) 
advice, You are, so to say, confusing my understanding; 



910 


GiTA-RAHASYA OR KARMA-YOGA 


§§ fST^Mr f^gr gtr sttttr g^rrs^T^r i 

lTR?Ti^ ^j^rnrr ^rmi^TR: n ^ u 

therefore, tell me definitely only that thing by which I shall 
attain ireya (that is, bliss). 

The Rlessed Lord said ;—(3) O sinless Arjuna ! I have 
said before (that is, in the Second Cliapter) that in this world, 
the path is of two kinds : that of the Sariikhyus, by the 
Jhana-Yoga, and that of the Yogins, by the Karma-Yoga. 

[I have translated the word ' pur a ’ = ‘ before as meaning, 

‘ in the Second Chapter and that is the straiglitforward 
meaning: because, the Blessed Lord has, in the Second 
Chapter, first described the Saihkiiya pliilosophy, and then 
the Karma-Yoga philosophy. But, the word ‘ para ’ can 
also be interpreted to mean ‘ from the beginning of the 
world ’; because, where the Narayaniya or Bhagavata 
religion has been descril)ed in the Muliabharata, it is stated 
that the Blessed Lord created the two independent paths of 
Barrikhya and Yoga [uivTlti (Renunciation) and ijravrlti 
(Action)], in tlie beginning of the world (See San. 340 
and 347). As I have shown in great detail in Chapter XI of 
the Gita-Rahasya (pp. 430 to 437) that (i) the word ‘ wwLsa’ 
(Release) is to be taken as understood behind the word 
‘ nif^tha that (ii) ‘ nistha ’ means ‘ that path by following 
which one ultimately attains Release ’, and that (iii) there 
are only two such paths, according to the Gita, which are 
independent of each other, and are not parts of eaclr other, 

I shall not repeat the same subject-matter here. The 
difference between these two paths has also been shown by 
me in the form of a tabular statement at the end of 
Chapter XI of the Gita-Rahasya (p. 491). The Blessed Lord 
has thus mentioned the two paths of attaining Release. 
Now He clearly defines the nature of that naiskarmya-siddhi 
(Perfection by Desireless Action) which is incidental tcv 
them—] 




GiTA, TRANSLATION &CX3MMENTARy, CHAP. Ill 911 


5T i 

5T ^ T%f% »» a II 

51 ft ^rrar^iiwit i 

'• ^ *• : n II 

(4) (But) Jt is not thiit :i mun attains nai>^karmya (that is, per¬ 
forming' Action after destroying its binding fo'-cc—Trans.) 
by not commencing Action; nor docs one attain I’erfection by 
merely making a Renunciation (tyaga) of Action; (5) because, 
whoever he may be, lie docs not remain even for a moment 
without peitorrning (some or other) Action. The constituents 
of Prakrti compel every lieing, that lias become dependent, to 
(always) perform (some or other) Action. 

[ComiTumtators, wtio support the Path of Renunciation, 
have iiitorpreted the word ' luuskannija' occurring in the 
tirst part of this staii'/a, as meaning ‘ Juanaand in order 
to srpiport their own doctrine, they have interpreted the 
.slaiiaa as meaning, “Knowledge is not acejuired by not 
starting Action, that is to say, Knowledge can 1 e acquired 
only by performing Action, in as much as Action is the 
in.strument by means of which Knowledge can be 
acquired’'. But tliis interpretation is neither straight¬ 
forward nor correct. 'I’lie word ' iKiitikarmtja ’ occurs any 
nurabor of times both in the Vedanta and the Mimamsa 
philosophies, and Huresvaracfirya has even wriitcn a book 
entitled N(tisk<irnujn-mhlld. But these principles of 
Naiskarmya are nut new, hut have been in rogue from 
before the time not only of Snrosvaracarya hut e^mn of the 
Sutras on the Mlmatiisa and the Vedanta. It need not be 
said that Karma (Action) is necessarily binding. Therefore, 
it is necessary to devise moiuo means whereby tlio binding- 
force or faults of Karina or .Action can he destroyed, 
in the samo way as Doctors purify mercury by ‘killing’ 
it before it is used ; and the stale (.if perfornii iig Action 
by this device is known a.s ‘ Naiidcarmya ’. As Action, 
thus cripjilud does not become an obstruction to Release, 
how to acquire this state is an important cuostion in 
the science of Release. The Mimaihsa sohoo: answers 




913 


GTTA-BA.HASYA OR KARMA-YOGA 


this question by saying that if one performs the ‘ Daily ’ 
(rdtya) ritual, daily, and the ‘Occasional’ (miimiftiJm) 
ritual, when there is occasion for it, and eschews the 
‘ Desire-prompted ’ {Icurnya) and ‘ Prohibited ’ (nitiiddha) acts,, 
one will escape the bond of Action, and can without 
difficulty obtain the ' miiiikannyavaHlha' (the state of Absten¬ 
tion from Action). But Vedanta science has proved that 
this device of the Mimamsa school is wrong; and this 
matter has been discussed in Chapter X of the Gita-Rahasya 
(pp. 378, 379). There are others who maintain, that Action 
(‘ Karma ’) will not bind a person, if he does not perform it. 
and that therefore, one should abandon all Action, is order to 
attain the state of Inaction {ruiiiiJcariiiyava.dlia). In their opi¬ 
nion moans ‘Absence of Action’ {kanm-sunyald). 

But it has been stated in the fourth stanza that this is not 
correct, and that Perfection (siddhi), that is, Release {iiioksn} 
cannot be attained in that way ; and the reason for saying 
so has been given in the fifth stanza. Even if one contem¬ 
plates giving up of Action, yet, in as imich as Action, like 
sitting, sleeping etc., does not stop so long as the Body 
exists (Gi. 5. 9 and 18.11), no man whosoever can at any 
time totally abstain from Action. Therefore, Naiskarmya 
in the shape of total Abstention from Action is impossible. 
In short, the scorpion of ‘ Karma ’ never dies. Therefore, 
one must devise some means whereby that scorpion will 
become poisonless. The doctrine of the Gita is that this 
device consists in destroying the Attaohmeut which ties a 
person to the Action, and this device has been later on 
described several times in an exhaustive manner. But 
even to this position an objection may bo raised that ; 
though Naiskarmya may n(.)t mean ‘ total Abstention from 
Action ’, yet, in as much as, those who follow the Path of 
Renunciation, obtain Release by giving up all Action, the 
giving up of all Action is necessary for obtaining Release, 
But to this line of reasoning the reply f)f the Gita is that, 
though the followers of the Path of Renunciation attain 
Release, that is not because they have given up Action; 
for, their attaining Release is the result of their Jhana 
(Knowledge). If Release were to be obtained merely by 



(}ITA, T1.UNSI.ATI0N & COMMENTARY, CHAP. Ill 913 

^ i 

?r?3r?Tr>-JR[ T%jj^r??n ^ ii ^ » 

^R?^^?TrfofT TfiT^r i 

^ II ^ II 

abstainiiii^ I'l-oni Actiuii, even a stone ought tc obtain it. 
Therel'ore, the following throe facts stand proved, namely,. 
(1) Naiskai'iuya does not mean total .Abstendon from 
Action ; (^) no one can po.ssibly givo up Action even if he 
says that he will do so; and (9) giving up Acl.itm is not a 
niean.‘- for obtaining Siddlii (Perfection); and this is what 
has been stated in the above stanza. When these three 
conclusions have been arrived at, the only w ay in which 
Naiskarmya-siddhi (Perfection by Desireloss Action) can 
be attained is, by not giving up Action, but cmtiniially 
performing Action after de.ytroying tiio ' asahii' (Attacli- 
inent) by moans of Juana (Knowledge). Because, though 
Jiifina alone does not give Release, yet, in as much as it is 
impossible t(.) t<.)tally abstain from Action, it is necessary 
to perform Action, after having destroyed one’s Attach¬ 
ment (amlc/i) to Action, in order to get rid of the Bond 
of Action This is w'hat is known as ‘ Kar.m a-Yoga ’; 
and the lllessed Lord now says that this method, which 
combines Jhana (Knowledge) witli Karma (Action) is of 
higher importance, that is, superior -] 

(6) That fool, wdio merely controls the Action (of the hands 
and feet etc.), but continually thinks by his Mind e fthe objects 
of the senses, is called t/iil/ivacam (that is, a hypocrite). 

(7) But the worth of that man, who controls his senses by 
means of bis Mind, and starts the Karma-Yog i by means 
(solely) of Lie organs of Action, with an unattached Reason 
is, O Arjuua ! very great. 

[These two stanzas amplify the statement in the pre¬ 
vious chapter that; ‘in the Karma-Yoga, the Reason is 
superior to Action’ (Gi, 3. 49). This stanza clearly says 
that the man, whose Mind is not [lure, but wh i restz’ains 
the activilues of his organs of Action only out of fear of 
others, or in order that other nersons should call him sood. 



914 


OxITA.-RAHASYA or KABMA-YOGA 


ITfROI: I 

^Cr^^TRrSR ^ ^ 5T !7r%:g'%f SRHOi; u <: u 

is not really a virtuous man, but a hypocrite. Those who 
point to the dictum; " kaUiu karla ca Ujiijale”, that is, 

“ in the Kaliyuga, fault is found not with Reason, hut with 
the Action” , and who say that, whatever the state of one’s 
Reason, one’s Action should not he had, should carefully 
note the principle laid down in the above stanza of the 
Gita. It becomes clear from the 7tli stanza, that the name 
‘ Karma-Yoga ’ has hoen given in the Gita only the ‘ Yoga 
of performing Action desirelessly ’. Some supporters of 
the Path of Renunoiation interpi-et this stanza as moaning 
that though this Karma-Yoga may he superior to the Path 
of Hypocrisy described in the 6th stanza, yet, it is not 
superior to the Path of Renunciation. But this argument 
is only a doctrine-supporting argument; because, the 
doctrine that Karma-Yoga is more worthy than, or superior 
to, the Path of Renunciation has been laid dowir not only 
in this stanza, hut again in tiio hegiiming of Chapter V, 
as also in several other places (Gitri-Ra, p. 425 and 426). 

As the Karma-Yoga is, in this way, proved to be superior, 
the Blessed Lord now advises Arjuna to follow that Path 
only—] 

(8j Perform tlic Action wliich has been niyata (that is, 
prescribed ', (according to your dharmii) ; because, it is better 
to perform Action than not to perform Action ; (see) besides, 
(tliat), if you do not p rform Action, (you will not get even 
food to eat and) even the Body will not be maintained. 

[ By the words ‘ besides ’ and ‘even’ (cf. : “ wpi ca ”) it has 
been shown that ‘ keeping alive the body (sanni-i/a/ru) is a 
very .secondary object. Now the Ble,s,s(Hl Lord starts the 
subject of Sacrificial Ritual (ijiijna-kaniiu) in order to show 
what Action is ‘ m’l/n/a ’ that is, ‘ prescribed’, and for what 
other important reasons that Action has to be performed. 
As the Sruti religion of .sacrificial ritual h;is now become 
extinct, readers do not now-a-days attach much importance 
to this subject. But, as these Yajiias and Yagas (that is. 



GITA, TRANSLATION & COMMENTARY, C HAP. Ill 915 


II % II 

sacrificial ritual) wore in full swing in the days of the 
Gita, tliose were the things whi(R were principally under¬ 
stood by the word ‘ Karinaand it was, th 3refore, neces¬ 
sary to expound in the Gita whether this n.ligious ritual 
should ho pin-formed or not, and, if so, in what way. 
Besides, it must be boriio in mind, that the word ‘ Yajha ’ 
does not moan only ‘ the .Jyotistoma arm other Yajfias 
prt'seribed by the Srutis’ or, ‘ sa.ia-ilicing somodiing or other 
into the Bhro ((lyiii)', (Oi. 4. 32). The word ‘ Yajila ’ 
ombraces all Action, which was enjoinei by Brahina- 
deva on all created Imings, in accordance with the four 
different castes, after ho had created the Gosmis, in order to 
achieve the smooth running of the Cosmos, 'hat is to say, 
for (universal welfare), (Ma. Bba. Aim. 48, 3; 

and Gi. Ra, j)p. 400-408); and these very rites have been 
descril'iid in our religious texts {iilniriit.<i-ia.t/m), and are 
what are liere meant by the word ‘ •iiiiidhi. ’ (])v jscribed rites). 
Therefore, though tlie sacrificial ritual of the Srutis is 
now extinct, this exposition of the cycle of Yajnas cannot 
be said to he meaningless in these days, from the point 
of view of religion, all this ritual ha.s been pruscrilied 
because, it is ‘ hUniUd .that Is, in order IJiet man should 
thorehy derive heiietit and become happy. Bii', in the .second 
chapter above (Gi. 3. 41-44) is stated the doct'-ine that these 
purposeful or (losire-|irom])led rites of the Miuiaihsakas 
cihstruct Release, that is to say, are inferior i 1 worth. And 
here it, is shown that it i.s necc.':'..sary to perf )rni that very 
ritual, 'rherefore, the Blessed Lord has explained in an 
exhaustive manner in the following stan/.as how the good 
or evil contact or binding effect of these Actions can be 
made to disappear, and how tiiv Naiskarmj avastha (state 
of Desireless Activity) is reached while performing Action ; 
and all this is consistent with the harayaniya or 
Bhaga vatii religion described in tlie Bharata. I 

(9) Tliis world is bound by .hctioii olecr than that which 
is pci'foimcd for the Yajua ; perfunu (even) ti c Action (to be 



916 


GiTA-RAHASYA OR KARMA-YOGA 


performed) for it, (that is, for the Yajna), abandoning the 
Attachment or Hope of Fruit. 

[ In the first half of this stanza is given the doctrine of 
the Miinaihsa school, and in the other half, the doctrine of 
the Gita. The Mlmaihsa school says that in as much as the 
ritual of Yajnas and Yagas ha,s been placed on everybody’s 
shoulders by the Vedas thcinsclv'es, and in as much as 
this cycle of Yajnas is necessary in order that the affairs 
of the world created by the Isvara should go on smoothly, 
nobody can give up Action (ritual); and that if he does so,, 
he is to be looked upon as lost to the religion of the Srutis. 
But it is a doctrine of the Law of (iausality {hirinuv'rpaha- 
prakriya) that, man has to sull'or the crmsequences of each 
one of his acts ; and according to this doctrine, it follows 
that man has to suffer the good or bad consequences of even 
the Action performed by him for tlie Yajha. To this the 
reply of the MimaihBa .scliool is that, in as much as the 
Vedas themselves have enjoined tlie performance of the 
‘Yajnas’, and in as much as ail Action which has to be 
done for the purpose of the Yajna juust consequently be 
deemed to be acceptable to the Isvara, snch Action cannot 
be a source of bondage to the doer ; hut any other Action, 
performed for any purpose oxceiit for a Yajna, e. g., for 
one’s own living, is an act not for the purpose of a Yajna, 
but merely for the benefit of oneself. Therefore, tho 
Mimaihsa school refers to such Action as ‘ pirrusUrtlia- 
karnia' (Action performed for one.self): and it has laid down 
that every person must suffer the consequences, go<jd oi- 
evil, of all such Action, that is, of Action other than that 
performed for the purposes of a Yajna, or in other word.s, of 
Purusartha-karnia ; and this is the proposition referred to 
in the first line of the above stanza (Gl. Ra. Ch. Ill, pp, 72^ 
to 75). The meaning, which some commentators arrive 
at, by taking ‘Yajna’ to moan ‘VisniT (which is a secondary 
interpretation) so as to explain ‘Yajiuirtha’ as meaning 
‘for the sake of Visnu’, or ‘in order to dedicate it to the 
Paramesvara’, is, according to me, a stretched and uncouth 
moaning. But hero a question arises, rramely : if a man 




GlTA. TRANSIATION & COM MENT ARY, (!HAP. Ill 917 


does 110 other Action except what in necej-sary for the 
performance of a Yajha, does he escape tdo bondage of 
Action? For, Yajfia is also an Action, and one cannot 
escape the fruit of it in the shape of obtaining heaven, 
mentioned in the Sastras. And it has been dearly stated 
in Chapter II of the Cita (Gi. 2. 40-14 and 9. 20, 21), 
that this Fruit in the shape of obtaining Heaven is 
obstructive to Release. Therefore, in the second part of 
the above stanza, it has been again emphasised that even 
the prescribed ritual, which a man h is to perform 

for the purposes of a Yajiia, should be performed by him 
without entertaining the Hope of Fruit, thf t is to say, 
merely as a duty; and the .same doctrine has been 
propounded later on when the 'sUlhika sacr.fice’ has been 
defined { Gl. 17. II and 18. 0). When in Ihis way all 
Actions arc performed for the purposes of a Yajua, and that 
too without, entertaining the Hojie of Fruit, (].} they cannot 
affect a person adversely in any other way, according to 
the Miniamsa doctrine, hecait.se they have hr en performed 
for tlie purpose of a Ya.iua, and (2) one does not thereby 
obtain the Sastric, yet non-permanent. Fruit in the shape 
ot hea\'on, as they have been iierformed 'w thout enter¬ 
taining the Hope of If’niit’, hut attains Relc ase. Such is 
the im)iort of this stanza ; and the same meaning has been 
again emphasised later on in the I9th stanza, as also in the 
23rd stanza of Chapter IV. In short, the d ictrine of the 
Mimaiiisa school that “one should perform Action for the 
purposes ot the Yajfia, as it has not a binding effect”, has 
boon amended and amplilied liy the Bhag ivadgita as: 
“even rlie Action to lie performed for the purposes of the 
Yajfia, .should he performed witlmut ontortaiiii ig the Hope 
of Fruit”. But oven to this position an objection is raised, 
by asking whether it is not bettor, for obtainin j Release by 
escaping the bond of Karma, that one should take 
daiiuiyasa (ronouiico the world) and give up all ritual, 
rather than go through the useless effort ol' a n ending this 
doctrine of the Mimaihsa school, and keeping alive the duty 
of a householder to perform Yajiias and Yagai. The clear 
answer of the Bhagavadgita t" this is in ’ ho negative 



918 


GITA-KAHASYA OB KABMA-YOGA 


^T^inr: sr^rr: srsrniT^: i 

TPfM’Mdl^r^ ^ ^ I 

V[^k ^rsTgyrr: lU^ II 

f5I^=^BTT^ m “^T ^^%cn: » 

^tTn?TsrfT%5-'^r ^ ^ n » 

because, but for the cycle of Yajnas, the affairs of the 
world will not go on. Nay ; this cycle has been created 
by Brahmadova in the beginning of the world in order to 
maintain the world; and ii\ as inucb as the well-being or 
the welfare of tlie world is what is desired by the Blessed 
Lord, no one can escape the performance of this Yajna- 
ritual. And this very import is embodied in the next 
stanza. In reading thi.s chapter, )ny readers must bear in 
mind that tlie word ‘Yajda’ ha.s not been used in the narrow 
meaning of tlie Yajua proscrilied l>y the Srutis, but that it 
includes the Yajiias prescribed by the Srartis as also all 
worldly Action prescribed for the four castes, according to 
their respective authority. ] 

(10) In uuci.nt days, Brahmadeva created living beings 
(praja ) together witli tlie Yajha and said (to them);‘By 
means of this (Ya,iri:i), may you grow ; may this be to you a 
kama-dhenu (that is, sornctliing whicli fulflls all desires). 

(11) By this Yajn;i, do you give pleasure (that is, prosperity) 
to the gods; (and) may those gods (in return) give you 
pleasure that is, prosperity); pleasing each other (in this 
ay), may you (both) attain tlie highest .beya (that is, 
benefit); (12) because, tlie gods, being satisfied by the 
Yajna, will give you (all) desired enjoyments. He who 
enjoys ( by himself alone ) what has been given by them, not 
giving it (back) to them, is indeed a tlnef 

[ After Brabinadeva created thi.s Tiniverse that is, the 
world of the god.s and all the other worlds, ho was filled with 
anxiety a.s to how all these worlds would be maintained. 
He, therefore!, performed austere religious practices for a 
thousand years; and having theriiby pleased the Blessed 
Lord, He (the Blessed I,ord) created the Activistic cycle 



GITA, TRANSLATION & COMMENTARY, C HAP. Ill 919 

^ Rsi qrqr q qq^f^Rq^KiurcT i' » 

of Yajiias for the maintonanoe of all tliesi! worlds, and 
directed both the god.s and the men to folltnv that arrange¬ 
ment and thereby in-otect each other; mch is the 
description given in the Narayatuya doctrine mentioned in 
the Mahahharata ( Ma. Bha. San. 340. 38 tc 63 ); and the 
same lias been repeated in the above stanza, slightly 
differently and with minor verbal alterations. This fort- 
ifie,s the proposition that the doctrine cnuin iated in the 
A.ctivistic Bhagavata religion is propoundod in the Gita. 
But, as the Bhagavata religion considered th". slaughter of 
animals included in the Yajuas as objectionalde (Ma Bha. 
San. 336 and 337), Yajhas by sacriiice of wealth took the 
place of the sacviiico of animals; and ul'.Imately, the 
opinion that the Ya.ina by moans of prayer (jajntjjajTui), or 
by mean.s of Knowledge {jmmi-ijaJda ) wa-; the most 
superior Yajha, came into vogue (Gi. 4. 33-33). It is clear 
that the word ‘Yajha’ means, all the Action (di ties) prescri¬ 
bed for the four castes; and that tliis 'f’ajha-ritual or Yajiia- 
cakra (cycle of Yajhas) ha.s to lie kept going without a 
hitch in the interests of the maintenance of s( .^ioty (Manu. 
1.87). Nay, the ‘ Yajna-i,vt/i:m’ (cyclo of Yajuas) mentioned 
later on in the 38t]i stanza Is a lujid of uiii’' or.sal .service 
(lokaMVi.jnika), (Sac Gi. Ra. Gb. Xt). It i.s, therefore, stated 
even in the Smrtis that the Action productive of universal 
welfare, vdiich the Blessed Ijord tliu,s created in the 
beginning of the world for the welfare both (jf the world of 
men and of the world of gods, should necuss irily bo kept 
going; and the same meaning has been made perfectly 
clear in the next stanza. ] 

(13) Those good men, who parbiko of what leuiaius after the 
performance of the Yajna, arc redeeraod from all sin. But 
those, who (without performing tlie Yajha) cook (food) for 
themselves (only), such sinful pnsons eat only sin, 

[In the Rg-Veda hymn 10. 117. 6, the same meaning is 
conveyed; and it is stated that: ‘‘'nUnimam ih pu.Hnati no 
sakhayavi kemlatjho bhuLxili kavaladt', that is, '‘he who does 



GITA-KAIIABYA OR KARMA-YOGA 


,^20 


ijfTTR I 

^tn^ETT'^ ?TfT: >i " 

not feed the ‘(tri/ainu, that is, the friend, but eats alone, 
should be looked upon as a sinner”. Similarly, there are 
to be found such stanzas in the Manu-Smrti, as : “at/ha/h .sn 
kemlam hlmnkte. ijah pamtijaiimikaraiini I yajilasistamnam hy 
eiat satam annafh vkUilijnte' II (3.118), that is, “He who cooks 
(food) only for himself, eats only sin ; what remains over 
after the performance of the Yajha is called anirt and what 
remains over after everybody else has eaten (hhiikla-sesu) 
is called vd/A/.s” (Manu, 3. 285); and that food alone is the 
proper food for respectable people ( see, Gl. 4. 31 ). The 
Blessed Lord now gives a mure detailed explanation of how 
the Yajna is necessary for the maintenance of tlie world, or 
how the world depends on the performance of Yajhas, 
instead of the Yajna and other ritual l)eing merely for the 
purpose of burning rice ajul sesanmm into the lire, or 
merely for the purpose of obtaining heaven—] 

(14) Living beings come into existence from food; food 
results from rain ; rain results from tire Yajiia ; and tlie Yajna 
.results from Karma (that is, ritual—Trans.). 

[ Even the Manu-Bmrti describes the origin of man, and 
of the food irecessary for his sustenance, in the same way. 
The stanza in the Manu-Bmrti is :“the oblation made into the 
Eire in a Yajna reaches the Bun, and then rain results from 
the Bun, that is, ultimately from the Yajna; food results 
from the rain, and life, from food” (Manu. 3. 7G); and the 
same stanza appear.s in the Mahabharata (Ma. Bha. San. 
2G2. 11). In the Taittiriya Upanisad (2. 1), this evolution 
is taken even further l)ack, and the order of evolution is 
. given as : “f r im the Pararnatinan was first born other ; and 
aft'vw rds, air, C'ro, water, and earth came into existence, 
one a.i t,.‘r the otlitr ; and from the earth spring the vegeta¬ 
bles, and from the vegetables, man”. Therefore, the 
Blessed Lord, consistently with tliat order of creation, takes 
the evolution of created beings, which, in the last stanza 
has been brought as far as Karma, still further back to 





GITA, TRANSLATION & QIMMENTARY, (!HAP. Ill 921 


^>7 1 

^JTTr5fr^rT Rf4 W ITr%fHartC II I'*. II 

Prakrti (Naturo or Malter), ami behind Prakj ti, right upto 
the Iinperishahle {'i/.saru) Brahman-] 

(15) Know (that) the o!i<rin of Action (is) from the Brahman 
(that is, from Prakrtiand tliis Bralnnan Ivif sprung out of 
the aksam * (that is to say, from the I’antiiiesvaru) ; there¬ 
fore, ( know t)i:i.t ) the Albpcrvading Brah nan is always 
'primarily worshipped’ (adlnKHiila —Trans.) in the Yajila. 

iSomo eommoutators interpret the word ‘Bn'hman’ in this 
stanza, not as Prakrti, but as Votla. Although this inter- 
protation uuuhl b.; correct in the moaning Lu t “the Brah¬ 
man, that is, tho Vedas, originate from the i'aramesvara”, 
yet, the words “tho All-pervading Bralnnan is in the 
Yajua”, do not bocume intelligildo uccoriling to that 
interpretation. Therefore, the jiieaning of tho word ‘Brah¬ 
man’, given ill the Ramaimjabhasya, consistently with its 
moaning in tho stanza, " m/iiiiii. i/oiiJr nif hai brahnia” 
Gl. 14. 3), (whore it means Prakrti), iianiel,y, ‘J’rakrti, which 
is the Ifundanumtal Substance of the world' appeals tome 
as bottiir. Besides, the description, 'dinuijdjii ii i Jdi/cii tuin'uiti 
i/ujildf! i'TniitJiujdl lidil.ii”, lha.t is, “tlie Yajna is followed 
by the world, and the world is followed by the Yajna”, 
whieh appoars in the Santiparva. of the Mahabharata, 
where the chapter of Ya.inas is going on (San. 267. 34), 
also becomes cumsisteiit with the priasent .strrn.a, if the word 
is taken to mean Prakrti. b’or, 1 have expl dnod at con¬ 
siderable lengtli in Chapt..'.rs Vlland Ylll of tho Glta- 
,Raha.sya, that the world Is nothing but Pr ikrti, as also 
how Prakrti springs from tlio ParanuLvara, and how the 
entire activity of the world springs from, the three-con- 
stituonted Prakrti. Besides, there is a de.seription even 
ill the Puriisasukta that t!ie Gods created the world by finst 
performing a Yajna. ] 

■(i/,;in-a% moans ‘the impcriBimblo’—Trans. 




GiTA-RAHASYA OR KARMA-YOGA 


93:e 


^ SR/icT sfrg^^cTTI I 
3TtTr5ftF?2jiTrot ^^[>5 h ifraRt ii 

§§ ^?rr^?iTc|Hai irr^Ji: i 

3TrfH5?^ci ^ ^3§[?crt^ 5T f^sr^ n I'S » 
cT^?T ^>JTfi!Jf I 

5r ^r^'^c’jqRT^T: n ?< n 

(16) Tlic life of Hull inun who does not move the cycle 
(thnt is, the cycle (rahm), whether of Action, or of sncrificiiil 
ritual), which lias thus liccn started (for the maintenance of 
the world), is sinful; and the existence, O I’artha ! of this 
slave of the senses (that is, of the person, wiio enjoys all 
by himself, without givius anything to the gods) is worthless. 

[ It has thus boon proved that .saorificial Action, or the 
respective duties of the Four castes, have been created by 
Brahmadeva -and not by man —and that these duties are 
nece.ssary both for keeping the world going on (stanza 14), 
as also for maint iining one.s3lf (stanza H); and that, 
therefore, the Cycle of Sacrifice {nnji'ni-fiihra) has got to be 
continually kept going on in this world, nnattachodly. 
That is to say. 1 have shown how the Karma-kfuuia in the 
Mlmarhsa philosophy, or in thn 'tnt'ji (lliunmi.’ has been 
left untouched in the Gita-roligion by the device of the 
CTnattached Reason (See Gita-Rahosya, Ch. XI,, pp. 478 
to 483). But some commentators b;’longin,g to the School 
of Ronnnoiatiun take exc.eption to this by saying that, 
as the Self-Knowcr (tifma-jrianlii ) obtains Reloaso in this 
world, and as lie has already acipiired hero all that is to be 
acquired, it is not necessary for him to perform any Action 
whatsoever in the world, nor should ho perform Action. 
Therefore, the Blessed Lord now gives in the tliree following 
stanza,s the answer of the Gita to that ohjectiou—] 

(17) But, for the man who is merged only in the Atman, 
content in the Atmun, and pleased with the Atman, nothing 
(as of his own) remains (in balance). (18) Similarly, here 
(that is, in this world) he has nothing to gain whether by 
doing or by not doing (any particular tiling) ; and there is 



GI1?A, TRANSLATION & COMMENTARY, CHAP. HI 925 


’ETrTrT ^ ^ 5fTITr^?: I 

^ ’T?:iTnftm n 1% ii 

no purpoHe (us of his own) which is mixed up with all created 
beings; (19) tasnmt, (that is, because the Jnhnin docs not 
in this way set store by anything in this wcirld), you too 
do not have any Attachment (to the Fruit), but ])crform (your) 
duty; because, the man who performs Action having given 
up Attachment, attains tlic highest (state). 

[As commontatorB have very much distorted the meaning 
of these three stauKas (17 to 19), I will fir.st txplain their 
plain intuining. These three .stanzas form really speaking 
only one soutenco, in the shape of a reason and , in inference. 
Out of the.'^e, the 17th and 18th stanzas first show the 
reasoirs generally given for the Jhanin not performing 
Action; and the inference drawn by the Oita is stated 
in the 19th stanza, which starts with the wn-d ‘faninill:' 
(that, is, ‘ therefore’), which shows the inferouce. It ha.s been 
clearly stated in the 4th and 5th stanzas in tie beginning 
of this chapter, that the Action.s of .sleeping, sitting, getting 
up, nay. of existing itself etc,, cannot he given up in this 
world, even if one wants to do so; and tliat, therefore, 

‘naitfkariiiija ' is not achieved by giving up Action, nor is 
such Renunciation of Action any means for attaining 
Perfection {siddlii). But the argument advanced against 
this point of view by the School of Renunciation is: “It 
is not that wo give up Action in order to obtain Perfection. 
Whatever anybody does in this world, he d( les it either 
for his own gain or for the gain of another. But the 
highest ideal of evei-y man, namely, the Middhavastha 
(State of I^erfoction), or Moksa (Release), is attained by 
a Jnanin as a result of Knowledge; and therefore, as there 
does not remain any more anything else wliich he has to 
acquire (stanza 17), it is all the same to him whether he 
performs a particular Action or does not perform it. Very 
well, if it is said that he must perform such Action for the 
benefit of other people, then he has nothing to do with 
other people (stanza 18). Then, why should he perform 



924 


GiTA-RAHASyA OR KARMA-YOGA 


Action at all ?” To this the answer of the Gita is: “ If it is 
just the same whether one performs Action or not, then 
why should one insist on not performing Action ? Perform 
whatever befalls you according to the Sastras with a fra,rae 
of mind free of insistence and thus become free. In this 
world, nobody has escaped Action, be he a Jnanin (sage) or 
an Ajnanin (ignorant person)”. One cannot escape Action, 
and at the same time, the Jnanin does not need it for him¬ 
self! Apparently, this seems to be a very great difficulty ; 
but, the Gita does not consider this problem as difficult, and 
says : “ In as much as you cannot escape Action, therefore, 
it must be performed. But as there is now left no selfish 
instinct any more in you, perform it selflessly, that is, 
dosirelessly; that is all This very advice has been 
given to Arjuna in the 19th stanaa by using the word 
^ tasmat ’ and, in order to further strengthen the argument, 
the illustration is given later on in the 22nd stanza, that 
the Blessed Lord, Who is the most Supreme Jnanin, continues 
to perform Action, notwithstanding that there is left 
nothing for Him to do. In short, the Gita says that: 
” even taking as correct the state of a Jnanin as described 
by the School of Renunciation, that state, instead of 
proving the necessity of Renunciation of Action, 
strengthens, on the other hand, the position of continuing 
to perform Action desirelessly But as this line of 
argument and this proposition of the Karma-Yoga science is 
not acceptable to the commentators of the School of 
Renunciation, they have not paid the slightest heed to the 
above mentioned logical arrangement of ‘ reason and 
inference ’ or to the general trend of argument, or even to 
the illustration given later on of the Blessed Lord Himself 
(See stanzas 7, 8, 9, 22, 25, and 30); and, breaking up these 
three stanzas, they have considered them as independent of 
each other; and, imagining the final doctrine of the Gita 
to be contained in the statement, “for the Jflanin, no duty 
©f his own remains ” etc., which appears in the first two 
stanzas, they have maintained that the Blessed Lord 
advises the Jnanin to give up Action 1 But thereby, the 
advice given to Arjuna immediately afterwards in the 





GiTA, TRANSLATION & COMMENTARY, CHAP. Ill 925 


third, that is to say, in the 19th stanza to “ perform Action 
unattachodly ” loses its bearing and cannot be accounted 
for. In order to get over this difficulty, these commentators 
have explained the advice to Arjuna to perform Action, as 
having l)een given because he was an Ajnanin (ignorant 
person); and they have thus satisfied themselves. But, even do¬ 
ing so, the word ‘tasmat' in the i9th stanza beconits meaning¬ 
less, and the interpretation advanced by these commentators 
becomes inconsi.stent with the previous and subsequent 
context, as also with the various statements in several 
places in the Gita that a Jhanin .should perform Action 
desirolessly, as also with His own illustration given later 
on by the Blessed Imrd (See Ci. 2. 47 ; 3. 7, 25 ; 4. 23 ; 6,1; 
18. 6-9; and Gi. Ra. Ch. .XL pp. 445 to 450!. Besides, 
seeing that this chapter contains an exposition of the 
Karma-Yoga, no sane person will bring forward a totally 
out-of-place proposition like ‘ Renunciation of Action is the 
best ’ in the middle of the expo.sition of the Yoga of Action, 
Then, how could the Blessed Lord have done suc h a foolish 
thing V Therefore, these interpretations, which are 
stretched and purely doctrine-supporting, cannoi. be taken 
as acceptable. It has been stated in the Yoga-Vasistha 
that even a Jnanin, who is a ' jivan-mukta ’ ( Released 
in this life) must perforin Action; and to the question of Sri 
Rama as to why the Emancipated should do sc , Vasistha 
has given the following reply, namely, 
jiuisija ndrthah kannafudj/aih ndrihah hirmasumlsrayaih I 
tenu sthitavi yntha yad yat tat tathidvu karotyasav, ii 

(Yoga. 6 1.199, 4), 

that is, “the ‘ Jnathat is, the Jnanin (Kriower) has 
nothing to gain whether by performing or by c.bandoning 
Action; therefore, (nv/a), he iierforin.s it, as it arises ”, 
Similarly, in the concluding u-pasafnhura of this book, 
appears the stanza: 

tiiama uftstl krtenartho nakrlriieha kus ca na \ 
yathaprdpletui list}i,umi, hy akarinani ku uyruhah II 

(Yoga. 6 U. 216. 14), 

of which the first line shows the reason, by saying “ to me, 
it is just the same whether something is done or not ”, 



926 


GITA-EAHASYA or KAEMA-YOGA 


§§ ft ^%l%»ITT%lfTr ^iT^r??T: I 

in the same words as the Gita; and it is stated in the 
second line that, “ why should I insist on not performing 
Action? I am performing whatever befalls me according 
to the Sastras”. Also, a little higher up, the Yoga-Vasistha 
has borrowed wer/jahm from the Gita the stanza: ‘'naiva 
tasjja krtenartho” etc., and in the next stanza, it says: 
yad yatha ndma sampanmnn tat tatlidslv Harem kim ”, that 
is, “therefore, (the jvmn-nmkia) performs whatever befalls 
him, and does not pay attention to anything else”. (Yo. 

6 U. 125. 49, 50). Not only in the Yoga-Vasistha, but 
also in the Ganesagita, where the same meaning is to be 
conveyed, the stanza is ; 

kit'ncid asya na mdhyam syUt narvajantuiju sarvada I 
ato ’saktatayd bhupa /iartavyam kanna jantubhih li 

(Ganesagita 2. 18), 

that is, “there is nothing left for him to earn from other- 
living beings; for this reason (atah}, 0 Raja! everybody 
has to perform his duties with an unattached Reason”. 
From this it will be clear that the mutual relation between 
the three stanzas as showing respectively the reason and 
the inference, as stated by me, is correct. As the Yoga- 
Vasistha gives in one stanza what is shown in three 
stanzas in the Gita, there remains no room for doubting 
the relation of reason and inference in that stanza. This 
line of reasoning of the Qlta has been later on adopted 
by the Buddhist writers of the Mahayana sect (Gl. Ra. 
pp. 798 and 816). The Blessed Lord now gives an 
illustration for emphasising the statement made above 
that, there no more remains any self-interest for the person 
who has attained Knowledge; that, he must perform his 
duties with a desireless Reason; and that. Desireless Action 
of this kind ends in Release, instead of obstructing it— ] 

(20) Janaka and others thus attained Release by 
performing Action. In the same way, it is proper that you 
should perform Action, keeping an eye to universal welfare. 



GITA, TRANSLATION & COMMENTARY, CHAP. HI 927 

^ ^rswM II u 

[ Tho first part of this stanza contains an illustration of 
how Releaso is attained by means of Desireless Action ; 
and a different subject-matter lias been started from the 
second part of tills stanza. It has been proved that 
although a Jnanin has nothing to do with otl er people, 
yet, as such a person cannot escape the performance of 
Action, he must porform Action desirelessly. Although 
the argument that, ‘ since one cannot escape the perform¬ 
ance of Action, one must perform it’, may be perfectly 
logical, yet, it does not satisfy ordinary persons as mucli 
as it should. They a;rc afraid in tiioir minds t lat Action 
is to be performed merely because it is unavoidable, and 
that notliing else is to be gained tliereby. Th irefore, the 
Blessed l.ord starts tlie second part of the stanza in order 
to show that 'lecuring universal welfare by one’s Action is 
a real ideal to bo reached in thi;: world by the Jnanin. 
This is ilie reason for tlie words 'evapi' in the phrase 
‘ h;/ca.s'aw<i/r«//a«i oi-'cip/’; and these words clearly show that 
a different suliject has now been commenced. The word 
'loka’iu the phrase l<)kafi<i/'>i(/raha' has a comprehensive 
meaning, and includes the putting, not only rm ukind, but 
the entire world, on a xu'opor path, and making a 
' sai'ngraha' of it, that is, maintaining, feeding, protecting, 
and defending it in a ju'opor way, without allowing it to 
he ■ destroyed. As these and other matters have been 
dealt with by me in an oxhanstive manner, in Chapter XI 
of the (’ ta-.Uahasya (jip. 455 to 4()7), I shall noi, deal with 
them, again here. The Blesiicd Ijord now first exiilains why 
this duty or rigid of achieving ' locasaingraha' 
(universal welfare) falls to the lot of the Jiianii ] 

(21) Ordinary people do what is done by the Exalted 
(that is, i.iy the Self-Realised Karma-Yogin). That thing 
which is accepted by him as correct is followed by people. 

[The Taittiriya IJpaiiisad, after first giving the advice, 

‘ sahjai'n vada ’ (speak the truth), ‘ dharrna'>'i‘ cara (act 
righteously) says ; “ if you are in doubt how m act in any 



928 


GiTA-RAHASYA Oft KARMA-YOGA 


!T ^ f% I 

sTR^awHs^T h i> 

IT? a ^rg ^ao^jaRga: i 
aa ara^garf?^ ag^ar: arsi al^r; u n 
ar^f^gr^^ ^ra>T a i^ar ar)^ i 

^ a»rfr ^argq^sarfaan a^aj n ^8 n 

particular contingency of life, act as the knowing, Yoga- 
practising, religious Brahmin acts in that matter” 
(Tai. 1. 11. 4); and a stanza to the same effect also appears 
in the Narayaniya-dharma (Ma. Bha. San, 341. 25). The 
Marathi stanza of Sri Samartha, ' Jasa vartato lokaknlyana- 
kari \ jagim vartati sarmh.1 tyaprakarirn” , (that is, “as the 
public benefactor acts, so also do all act in the world”—■ 
Trans.), is nothing but a translation of this stanza. This 
* lokakalyanakari ’ person (i. e.,‘public benefactor’—Trans.) 
of Sri Samartha is the ‘ srestlui ' Karma-Yogin of the GltS. 
The word ‘ srestha ’ does not mean a Self-Realised Ascetic 
(atma-jnanin safnmjasin), (Sea Gl. 5. 2). The Blessed Lord 
now points to Himself as an illustration, for further 
emphasising the proposition that although a Self-Realised 
person may have got over his selfishness, he does not escape 
the performance of Actions for public welfare— ] 

(22) O Partha ! (see this tliat,) there is left no duty 
(of mine) in the three worlds for Me; nor is there any not. 
acquired (thing left) to acquire; yet, 1 am performing Action; 
(23) because, if I, giving up idleness, do not take part 
in Action, then, O Partlra! all men will follow in all respects 
the path followed by Me. (24) If I do not perform Action, 
these worlds will become titsanna (that is, extinct); I shall 
be the cause of samkara (that is, caste-confusion—Trans.); 
and these created beings will be destroyed by my hands. 

[ The Blessed Lord has made clear in this stanza in a very 
nice way that ' lokasamgraha' (universal welfare) is not 
some humbug. So also does the illustration of Himself 
given by the Blessed Lord fully bear out the inter¬ 
pretation put by me on stanzas 17 to 19 above, namely, that. 



GITA, TRANSLATION & COMMENTARY, CHAP. Ill 9X& 


§§ ^T: ^IK?T I 

ii u 

though no duty rennains to be performed for the Jnanin 
(for hiniHelf), after he has acquired Knowledge, >mt, he must 
perform all Action desirelessly. Nay, otherwiso this illus¬ 
tration will be out of place and meaningless (See Gl. 
Ra. pp. 44(i-7). The important difference between the 
Samkhya path and the Karma-Yoga path is that the 
Jiianins following the Saihlchya path do not attach the 
slightest importance to what will become of the world if 
the cycle of Yajhas come to an end, and they give up all 
Action, whereas the Jnanins following the Karma-Yoga 
path keej) performing all their various Actions, according 
to their respective religion (dlucnna), for the purpose 'of 
universal welfare ( lokafidihyralin ), looking upon it as 
an objective of the utmost imp(u-tance and nocassity, and 
though tliey may not need to perform such jtctions for 
their owm benefit. (See Gita Rahasya, Chapter XI, p. 491). 
The Blessed Lord has thus told Arjuna what fie Himself 
does. HE now shows in the following stanzas the difference 
between tlie Actions of the Jnanin (scient) and the Ajnanin 
(ignorant), and explains what a Jnanin has to lo in order 
to reform the Ajnaiiin— ] 

(25) O Arjuna ! (therefore) the Jnanin who desires 
to acliicve universfd welfare must behave in the same way as 
Ajhanins, wlio are attaclicd to (worldly) Action, but having 
given up Attachment. (26) Tire Jnanin should not unsettle 
the buddhi (that is, Faitli—Trans.) of Ajhanins attached to 
Action, but sliould (liimsclf) become yiikta (that is, yoga- 
yukta), and a perfortner of all Actions, and make others 
perform them willingly. 

[ This stanza means that one should not unsettle the 
faith, or (Jonviction of the Ajhanins (ignorant), iirdthe same 
direction is again given in the 29th stanza. But, this does 
not mean that people are to be kept in ignorance. In the 




S30 


GITA-EAHASYA. OR KARMA-YOGA 


35th stanza, it has been stated that the Jhanin must achieve 
universal welfare { loJaisa»t<jruha ); and ‘universal welfare’ 
means enlightening people. But to this an objection may 
be raised that though Hokamiiujraka may be a duty, yet, it 
is not necessary on that account that a Jhanin should 
personally perform Action; and it will he quite enough if 
he imparts wisdom to people. To this objection, the Blessed 
Lord replies that: ‘if knowledge is merely orally imparted 
to those persons, who have not got into the firm habit of 
righteous Action, (and ordinary people belong to this 
category), we see that they make use of that Knowledge of 
the Brahman for supporting their own misdeeds; and they 
talk nonsense, saying, “such and such a Jhanin says so” ’. 
Besides, if a Jhanin absolutely gives up all Action, that 
becomes an illustration for the Ajhaniu to become idle. 
When people thus become wicked in thought, or mischievous, 
or idlers, a ‘’biiddlu-bheda is said to have taken place; and 
it is not proper that a Jhanin should in this way unsettle 
(make a bheda of) the conviction (huddhi) of other people. 
Therefore, the Gita has laid down the important doctrine 
that, it is an important duty of a man who has become a 
Jhanin, to remain himself in worldly life, for the purpose 
of 'lokasa/h<jralia’, that is, in order to nmke people wise, and 
put them on the righteous path, and thus to give a living 
example to others of performing righteous, that is. Desireless 
Action, and make them act righteously. (Bee Gita-Rahasya 
pp. 561-3). But some commentators disregard this import of 
the Gita, and put a perverse interpretation on this stanza to 
mean: “the Jhanin should hypocritically perform the same 
acts which are performed by the Ajhanins, in order that the 
Ajnanins should remain Ajhanins, and perform Actions ” I 
As if the Gita has been written in order to teach people 
hypocrisy, and in order to keep people in ignorance and 
make them perform Actions like beasts! Those persons, 
who firmly believe that Jhanins should not perform Action 
will naturally look upon ‘lokasafngraha’ as hypocritical. 
But, that is not the true message of the Gita, The Blessed 
Lord says that 'lokasantgralia' is one of the important 
duties of a Jhanin, and that a Jhanin must perform Action 





GITA, RANSLATION& COMMENTARY, 01 [A,P. Ill 931 


ariWITTT^’J^TrlTT U U 

cT^n^’g iiirwTtr •uuicH^i'g^nggi: i 

5;on 5;at5 grlTrT ?T^ g >1 

Ji??Tg ii ii 

not for kooping people in ignorance, but in or ier to place 
before tliein an excellent exainplo, and to tlieriby improve 
them, (Bee Gita-RaliaBya, Cha]>ters XI and XII), To 
proceed further; there is the liktdihood of a d<ubt that if a. 
Self-Realised Jnanin begins to do all worldh Actions in 
this way for univer,sal welfare, he too will lu;coine an 
Ajnanin. 'fherefore, the Ble.s.sed Lord now shows the 
difference between the conduct of a Jilanin and an Ajnanin, 
though both.may take part in worldly life, as c Iso what the 
Ajnanin has to learn from-'the Jnanin—] 

(27) Though all Actions take placc.as a result )f the consti¬ 
tuents (i'<A An, rajtis, and/rtwas) of Rrakrti, the (Ajnanin per¬ 
son) befooled by egoism look.s upon himself as the doer. (28) 
But, O mighty-armed Arjuua ! he (the Jnanin) who realises 
the principle that the coustituents, as also Act ons, arc both 
different from hiinself, and that all this is i .othiug but fiie 
mutual intci-play of the constituents, does not booonie 
attached to it. (29) People befooled by the ( onstituents of 
Prakrti become attached to the constituents and to Actions ; 
such non-scient and dull-mimlcd jmople should not be spoiled 
by the Juaiiins (^by putting them on a w rong path liy 
abandoning Action themselves). 

[This stanza repeats the exi)osition made in the 2()th 
stanza. Tlie pi*opositions laid down in the a )ove stanzas, 
namely; iPraki’ti and the Atman are different from each 
other; Prakrti or Maya does everything, the Atman d(,)es 
nothing; and he, who has Realised this, is the true ‘Imdi.'hu’ 
or ‘j/luniii’ etc., form part of theKapila-Saihkhy a pliilosophy : 
and the reader is referred to the exhaustive exposition of 
this subject made in the seventh chapter of the Jlta-Rahasya 
(pp. 323 to 226). Many persons interpret the ‘ 8th .stanza as 



932 


GiTA-RAIIASYA OR KARMA-YOGA 


fHi 'r ^f l ft^ T R r f^JTrT^: II ^0 II 

^ ^ JTrTt^ f^F^m^mgfJrT JTTST^: I 
sff^grr^^sT^J^Fcft ^sfq II II 

% ^gRrgf^ iT *nT 31 

^J^5TRftr^Rc!n?^T% ^5T%rr^: II II 

meaning that the ‘(juriah’, that is, the ‘senses’, rove about in 
the ‘(jimah’, that is, the ‘objects of the senses’. This interpreta¬ 
tion is not incorrecit; because, the eleven organs of sense and 
the five ‘o\)ject,s of the s(!n.ses’ (that is, ri..%i>ja}, such as, 'sahda 
(sound), ‘ Kjiarsa ' (touch) etc. form part of the 23 qualities of 
the original Prakrti according to Waiiikliya philo.sophy; but f 
think that, the statement, “(/uwi ijunesu vurfaule'', ha.s Ijeen 
made with reference to all the twenty-four <iualities (Oi. 13. 
19-22; and 14. 23). J have translated tho,sc words literally 
and in an oxhau,stive way. And saying that, although the 
Jfi&nin and the Ajnanin may both perform the same act, 
yet, tliere is a groat differonoo \>etweon them fr(.>m l.ho point 
of view of Reason (See C ita-Kabasya, pp. 430 and 450), the 
Blessed Lord now advises as follows, by way of .summarising 
all this exposition— ] 

(30) (For this reason, O Arjuua !) making a ‘ saihnydsa ' 
(that is, dedication) of idl Actions to Me ‘ with a mind fixed 
oil the Highest Self’ (that is, with an adhydlmabuddhi — 
Trans.), and giving up Hope (for tlic Fruit) as also Mine-ncss, 
fight, without any mental perturbation. 

[ Tho Blessed Lord now explains tho ro.sult of acting 
according to this advice and of not so acting- • J 

(31) Those devout (persons), who always act according 
to this advice of Mine, without finding fault with it, they too 
become free from Karma, (tluit is, from the bonds of Kiirma). 

(32) But, know that those, who do not act according to this 
My teaching, finding fault with it with a fault-finding vision, 
sneh. ‘ sarvajmna-vwtudfia’ (tliat is, utter fools), thoughtless 
persons, arc utterly ruined. 

[The description of tho conseciuences of following or not 
following Karma-Yoga, given above to prove that the 





GiTA, TE ANSL ATION & COMMENTARY, CHAP. Ill 933 


sri»f^ f% n n 

c?icn^5!j^ i 

qK^5a5ft II Vi II 


Kaaraa-Yoga, which prescribes Desireless Action, is the 
best, clearly shows what the doctrine propounded by the 
Gita is. In order to supplement this disquisition on the 
Karma-Yoga, the Blessed Lord now descrilies the strength 
of Prakrti (inherent nature), and the control of the senses 
necessary for resisting that power— ] 

(33) Even the Jhauin acts according to the natural 
tendency of his Prakrti; all created beings act according to 
the inclination of (their respective) Prakrtis ; (in these 
circumstances) wliat can restraint (tliat is, pressure) do ? 
(34) The liking and repulsion between the senses and 
the objects of sense (such as, sound, touch, etc.) arc both 
vyavasthita (that is, fundamentally li.Ked). One should not 
become subject to this affection and repulsion, because, they 
are the (highway-robbing) enemies of men. 

[ The word ‘ nigralia ’ in the 33rd stanza does not mean 
mere ‘ control ’, but means ‘ coercion ’, or ‘ insi itonco ’. The 
Gita favours the proper control of the senses. What is 
meant here is that it is not possible to totallj destroy the 
natural tendencies of the senses by self-coercion or 
persistence. For instance, so T)ng as the body exists, a 
man leaves his home to go and beg when he is hungry, 
however much he may be a Jnanin or wise, bei ause hunger, 
thirst, etc. are natural tendencies. Therefore, this stanza 
means that the duty of a wise man lies, not in uselessly 
determining to totally kill the senses by Jbree, but in 
keeping them within his control by samyaiiiana ’ 
(concentration), and turning his natural i,e7idencies to 
universal welfare. Similarly, it is quite claar from the 
word ■ vijavastlula' in the 34th stanza that pain and 
happiness are two independent emotions, and that tbe one 
is not the absence of the other (Gi. Ra. Ch. lY pp. 136 and 
183). In the incessant activity of Prakrti, that is, of the 




934 


GITA-KAHASYA OR KARMA-YOGA 


T?n?5T i> n 

creation, it very often happens that we have to do things, 
which we do not want to do (Gi. 18. 59). It is impossible 
for us to refuse to perform them. On these occasions, the 
Jhanin performs these acts with a desireless frame of mind 
and purely as a matter of duty, and roTuains untouched by 
the sin or the merit of the Action, whereas, the Ajnanin 
becomes Attached to these things and thereby suffers pain. 
This is the great difference between the two from the 
point of Reason, as has been stated by the poet Bhasa. But 
now the following difficulty arises: even taking it for 
granted that one should not forcibly kill the senses, nor 
give up Action, but should peiTorm all Actions with an 
unattached Reason, yet, is it not more proper for the Jhanin 
to take to agriculture, commerce, mendicancy, cr other 
similar mild and iiarinle,ss Action, rather than to terrible 
and destructive acts like warfare ? To this the Blessed 
Lord replies as follows—j 

(35) liven if it may bo easier to follow the religion of 
another, yet, one's own religion (that is, according to the 
religion of the four castes) is more meritorious, though it 
might be ‘ viguna’ (that is, full of faults); though death results 
(while acting) according to one’s own religion, there is bliss 
in that; (but) the religion of another is risky ! 

[‘One’.') own religion’ means the ‘code of duties iirescribed 
for every one by the Sastras according to the arrangement 
of the four castes laid down by the writers of the Smrtis ’; 
it does not mean the scioTice of Release (moksa-dharnia). 
As the arrangement of the four castes, made by the writers 
of the Sastras by allocating activities consistently with the 
special qualities of each, is for the benefit of everybody 
(Gl. 18. 41), the welfare of Brahmins and Ksatriyas and the 
welfare of the entire society, lies in their respectively 
performing their own duties, notwithstanding that they 
become Jhanins (sages); and it is not proper for them to 
meddle with that arrangement every now and then. This 
is what the Biassed Lord says (G). Ra. pp. 464 and 697). 




GITA, TRANSLATION & COMMENTARY, GJIAP. Ill 935 

§§ 3Ti!j ^ qiq ’i^q: • 

aifif^yyfq qi’s^ fqqtT^cT: n n 

There i.s a Gujarati proverb in vogue which has the same 
meaning namely, “ jenTiih IcUina tendtlii thaiin I hi jo leave to 
qoth,dm khivja ”. Anyhoily will admit that, cvi ii where the 
four-caste arrangement is not in vogue, it is in the best 
interests of evory hody, that the man whii las spent the 
whole of his life in the army should, when the occasion 
arises, do the business of a lighting-scddior, rat ler than that 
of a tailor; and the same argument applies to the four- 
caste arrangement. The questimi whether the four-caste 
arrangement is good or bad, is a different question 
altogether, and does not arise here. It is an unquestionable 
fact that other forms of activity are as necessary for the 
proper maintenance and protection of society es agriculture 
or other similarly harmless and gentle occupitions. This 
stanza means that whatever occupation one may have once 
adopted, whether according to the four-caste arrangement, 
or of one’s own free will, it becomes one’s ‘ religion ’, and it 
is not proper to find fault with it when occasion arises 
and to forsake one's duty; and if necessary, one must 
die in the performance of one’s own duty in life, 
Whatever occupation is considered, some fruit or other- 
can certaijily he found with it (Gi. 18. 48), But it is not 
proper that one should, on that account, give ip one’s pres¬ 
cribed {niunla) duty. This very principle hrs been enun¬ 
ciated in the Brahmana-Hunter dialogue ai d Tuladhara- 
Jajali dialogue in the Mahahharata; and ihe first half 
of the 35th stanza is to be found in the Manu-Smrti 
(Mann. 10. 97), and also later on again in the Gita (18. 47). 
With reference to the statement, “one cannot carry out 
one’s determination to kill the s 0 n.se,s’’ in the 33rd stanza, 
Arjuna now asks why that should be so, and why a man 
is pulled towards evil deeds, against his will,] 

Arjuna said : (36) O Varsneya ! (that is, O Sri Krsna), 
now tell me by what inspiration does a man commit sin, not 



voo 


(jiTA-KAHASYA OR KARMA-YOGA 



'TSTintTOS^^. I 

II?T^ »T^'iin:*rr f%^JTW5 %ftan3[ II II 

^jR»T[l^?T?T I 

TT^k'^HI f^ T iT^^siIT « \C II 

3TTfW ITTJmrR fTn^Tl f^rTjlIfTOIl I 
^W^Rqoi ^ U \% II 

ff^Tnfor if^^7nr;ramg=E7jd i 
fTRTTrfrTT tf|sT»7 II ao II 
liTTcT^ I 

qn:qR 5r3Ti% ^ IfTSTf^^n^RT^R*^ U II 

himself desiring it, as though coerced ? The Blessed Lord 
said; (37) Know that iu this matter, the enemy is that 
Desire, which is most greedy and most sinful, born out of 
the rajas constituent, and that Anger; (38) just as fire 
is covered by smoke, or a mirror by dust, or as the embryo 
is enveloped by the amnion, so has everything been 
enveloped by it; (39) O Kaunteya! that which is an 
insatiable fire, that constant enemy of Jhanins iu the shape 
of Desire, has enveloped all Knowledge. 

[ This is a repetition of the statement of Manu that: 


-na jatu kamuh karnanam upabhogena sumyati i 
havisa kTS'namrtiiiem bhuya evabhivardhate II 

(Manu. 3. 94); 

that is, “ Desire is never satisfied by the enjoyment of the 
objects of Desire; it ^rows more and more as does the fire 
to which fuel is added ” (See Gi. Ra. Ch, V, p, 143) ]. 


(40) The Senses, the Mind and the Reason are said to 
be the adhisthdna (that is, the house, or fortress) of it; by 
the support of these, it puts aside Knowledge and throws 
the man into confusion. (41) Therefore, O most excellent 
Bharata ! first control the senses and destroy this sinner, 
who is the destroyer of Jnana ( Spiritual Knowledge ) and 
Vijnana (specified Knowledge). 




GITA, TRANSLATION & COMMENTARY, CHAP. Ill 937 


§§ ’rt *r: I 

JT5T^ qrr ir^r %w- ** 

1^: 'it ^^HWTTrlTRmrJT^TT I 

^[Tt « 8^ 1 

(42) It is sakl that the senses (which know material 
external (objects as they experience them) arc ‘para ’ (that iS| 
beyond); the Mind is beyond the senses, the 'lyasasayatmika 
(that is, discerning—Trans.) Reason is beyond the Mind; 
and It (the Atman) is beyond the Reason. (43) O Mighty- 
armed Arjuna ! thus Kealising that, which is beyond the 
Reason, and controlling yoursell by yourseli, destroy this 
■enemy, whicli is difficult to conquer, in the shape of Desire. 

[In order that a person should be able tc perform all 
Actions according to his own religion, and lor universal 
welfare, having got rid of Attachment (amkli) in the shape 
of Desire, one must have perfect control over ]vij senses; and 
that is the only control over the senses, which is meant 
here, d'he Gita does not say that one should 'oreilly kill 
the senses, and give up all Action (see Gi. Ra. (h. V, p. 153). 
Thestar//a‘T'adn:yumGwrarty(7/ia/i otc.” above (;).42) is from 
the Katliopanisad, and 1 have shown in the Ci Ita-Rahasya 
that four or live other stauiias have been taken into the 
Gita (se(j Appendix p. 741) from the Kathopanisad. The 
purpose of the senses is to collect the irapreesions of the 
external world ; and after the Mind has co-ordinated them, 
the Reason distinguishes between thorn; and the Atman 
■(Self) is beyond all these, and different from all these. 
This is, in short, the summary of the Science c f the Body 
nnd the Atman. (See the exhaustive consideration of 
this subject-matter at the end of Ghapter VI i f the Gita- 
Rahasya pp. 179 to 201). As I have exhaustively 
■coiLsidered in the tenth chapter of the Gita-Raho.sya (pp. 383 
to 395) the moot (juestions relating to the doctrine of 
Causality (Icarma-'/i/wlca), such a.s, how a man is incited 
to a particular act as a result of the emotions of De.sh-e, 
Anger etc., notwithstanding that he may not wish tc 
perforin it, or how a man fiiuls out a way even out of this 





938 


GlTA-RAHASYA or KARMA-YOGA 


«hR^l4Tr sTTJT n \ ii 


situation by means of sense-control, as he has Freedom of 
Will, I shall not take up space by repeating the same 
subject-matter bere. The (luestion of the control of the 
senses has been considered later in Chapter VI of the Gita.J 


Thus ends the third chapter, entitled Karma-Yoga 
in the dialogue between Sri Krsna and Arjuna on the Yoga 
included in the Science of the Brahman (tliat is, on the 
Karma-Yoga) in the Upanisad sung (tliat is told) by the 
Blessed Lord. 




§§ STr?T>2rR5*T5?l?I»^ I 

f^nnTiTJf^ Tl5R^^T?R%5g#<?, >» \ n 
n:^ qtiTOsnRT%R THT^^fr f%^s i 
^ ir^rTT ^nfr ^rs = q^rnr n ^ u 
^ H^TT ^nr*. hitt:: s^irTif*-1 
¥fT#TST% ^ ^fTfTm li ^ I 

CHAPTER lY. 

[This chaj)ter further emphasises the •priiciples of 
Karma-Yoga which have been explained so far, l ameiy, (i) 
as nobody can escape Karina (Action), Action must be 
performeii, though the Reason may have become lesireless ; 

(ii) ‘ Karma ’ means, such karma as Ya.jhas and Yagas etc,; 

(iii) but, as this Xanna (ritual) of the Mimainsa school is 
productive of heaven, and consequently to a certain extent 
binding, it must be performed having given up Attachment 
(asakti); (iv) even though selfishness disappears is a result 
of Knowledge, Action does not cease to bo necessary ; and, 
therefore, even a Jfianin must perform Desirelois Action, 
as such Action is essential in the interests of universal 
welfare. In order that Arjiina should not suspect that this 
course of conduct, or Nisthii was something new, which had 
been prescribed for him, the Blessed Lord now first explains 
the ancient tradition of this teaching which has been 
handed down from preceptor to disciple. J 

(1)1 expounded this avyaya (tliat is, inexhaustible, or 
which is not touched by past, present, or future, and is 
permanent) (Karma-) Yoga to Vivasvat (that is, the Sun); 
Vivasvat expounded it to (his son) Manu; and Manu 
expounded it to (his son) Iksvaku. (2) This Yoga, come 
into existence by this tradition, came to be known to the 
Royal Sages ; but, O Satrutapana! (Arjuna), after the 
lapse of considerable time, it ceased to exist on this world. 
(3) That same ancient Yoga (Karma-Yoga-margai has been 

41—42 



940 


GTTA-RAHASyA OE KARMA-YOGA 


expounded by Me to you to-d;iy, as being the most supreme 
mystery (of all mysteries), because you are My disciple, and 
and are beloved of Me. 

[ I have proved in Chapter lU of the Gita-Rahasya 
(pp, 76^88) that the single word ‘ Yoga ’ used in these three 
stanza.s has been used in the meaning of ‘Karma-Yoga’, 
that is, ‘ the method of performing Action with an Equable 
Reason out of the two paths of life, namely, the Baiiikhya 
and the Yoga. Although the tradition of this path of life 
which has been stated in these stanzas is of the utmost 
importance for understanding its origin, commentators do 
not seem to have paid much attention to the matter. In 
the description of the Bhagavata religion given in the 
Narayaiiiya Upakhyana of the MahabhM'ata, Vaigampayana 
says to Janamejaya that in the Svetadvipa, this religion 
was, f I'om the Blessed Lord, 

narad('iia In aamprUpfah mrnlutsuah samingrahah I 
em dhunno jagaundthat, mkmn nuraijamm ntpa II 
eoamum iwdian dliarin ih si tn puroain nrpoltama I 
kdthito harigUCisii s inidsavidhikidpilnh II 

(Ma. Bha. San. 346. 9, 10) 

that i.s, “ acquired by Narada; and 0 Raja I the same 
illustrious religion has been imparted to you in the Hari- 
gita, that is, in the Bhagavadgita, together with the briefly 
.stated ritual {mmamvifUnhdpita'h)’’. Later on, it is again 
stated (Ma, Bha. San. 348. 8) that, “ this religion was 
expounded to Arjuna, who had become despondent in the 
war”. This clearly shows that the Karma-Yoga in the 
Gita has arisen out of the Bhagavata doctrine (Gi. Ra. pp, 13 
to 16). The tradition of this doctrine from the beginning of 
the universe has not been given in the Gita out of fear of its 
taking up too much space; and reference has been made 
only to Vivasvan, Manu, and Tksvaku ; but the real mean¬ 
ing of this .statement becomes clear when one considers the 
entire tradition of the Narayanlya doctrine. Brahmadeva 
had seven lives. After the description of the tradition of 
the Narayanlya religion given in the first six of these lives 
is over, Vaisaihpayana has again said to Janamejaya in 





GlTA, IRANSLATION & COMMENTARY, OTLAP. IV 941 


the (Source of the fui-thor description of the ’'Tarayaniya 
doctrine as follows :—When the Krta-Yuga of the seventh, 
that is tc say, the present life of Brahniadeva was over, 
trefaijiujihl/tu at fnlo vivaaimn numive. dadaii I 
iminus cn l(ik(d)li,Tlfi(irthaf/i sutdufdojudkave da< au II 
iktimkund ca hithito mjapya lokfin aimfhitah 
(januHUidi kmuTinte ca puiiar uUi dijamiih nrpa i 
yidiuui'n cdpi yo dhariitah sa te pTurvam nrpattama i 
kalhita harigildfiii, saiiHisavidMhdpilah ii 
that is, ‘‘this doctrine was propounded by \ivasvan to 
Mann in the beginning of tbe Treta-yuga; Mann gave 
it to his son Tksvaku for universal welfare, and 
Iksvaku tlieii propounded it to the world; O Raja! 
when the world has been destroyed, (this doctrine) will 
go back to Narayana. This doctrine, and side by side 
with it, “ ijfdJndih cTtpid’, that is, ‘ the Saihnyasa doctrine 
also’, has been explained to yori before in the Bhagavad- 
glta" (Ma. Bha. San. 1148. 51-53). From this, it becomes 
clear, that tl»e tradition of the Bhagavata doctrine given 
here relates only to the Trotayuga, whie.h came before the 
Dvapara-yuga at the end of which the Bharatiyc war took 
place ; and that more has not been described out of fear for 
the amount of space which tbe description woull take up. 
This Bhagavata doctrine is nothing else but ‘ Yoga ’ or 
‘Karma-Yoga’; and this tradition of the Karma-Yoga 
having boon propounded to Manu, appears not oidy in the 
Gita, but has also lieen referred to in the Bhagavata-purana 
(Bhag. 8. 24. 55); and the im])ortauco of the Karma-Yoga 
propounded to Mann hn.s also bcjon described in the 52nd 
chapte.r of the Matsyapuraua. But the sulpect-matter 
stated in any of these places is not as exhaustive and 
comphste as in the Narayaniya llpakhyana. When one 
T3ali.ses that the tradition of ' Vivasvan to Manu to 
Iksvaku’ duos not at all apply to the Sfuhkhya doctrine; 
and that no third ,Nistlia in addition to the Sathkhya and 
the Yoga doctrines has been pi-opounded in the Gita, tbe 
fact that this tradition is of the Karma-Yoga eoitios to he 
proved in a second way (Gl. 2. 39). But, althougli the 
tradition of the Saihkhya and the Yoga doctrines may not 






942 


GITA-KAMASY A. OR AAKMA-YOaA 


■Jc|M I 

§§ mi ^rft ^ > 

i 

cTT?^ %? ^TOT 3T qTcni U II 

be the same, yet, as the exposition of the Saihkhya or 
Samnyasa doctrine is incidentally included in the 
exposition of Karma-Yoga (Gl. Ra. Ch. XIV, p. 660), 
Vaisaihpayaiia has said that the yafi-dJiarina, or the 
Samnyasa doctrine, has been described in the Bhagavad- 
gita. In the description of the duties applicable to the four 
stages of life, given in the Manu-Smrti, there is at the end 
of the sixth chapter a description of the Yati-dharma 
(religion of Ascetics), which is followed by a description, 
as of an alternative path, of the Karma-Yoga described in 
the Gita or in the Bhagavata doctrine, under the name of 
the ‘ Karma-Yoga of Vedic Sarhnyasins and it is clearly 
stated there, that “the highest Release is ultimately 
obtained by continually doing one’s dhties desirelessly ’’ 
(Manu. 6, 96); and this clearly shows that the Karraa-Yoga 
was acceptable to Manu. And I have quoted authorities 
at the end of Chapter XI of the Gita-Rahasya (pp. 505 to 
509) to show that it was also acceptable to the other Smrti- 
writers. Arjuna now raises the following doubt as to this 
tradition—]. 

Arjuna said: (4) Your birth is subsequent, and that 
of Vivasvat was beyond (that is, earlier); (that being so) 
how can 1 realise that You expounded (this Yoga) ‘adaw ’ 
(that is, before—Trans.) ? 

[In replying to this question of Arjuna, the Blessed Lord 
describes the work done by Him in His various 
incarnations and again emphasises the Attachment-less 
Karma-Yoga or the Bhagavata doctrine, saying “ I too have 
been performing Actions in this fashion”—^]. 

The Blessed Lord said: (5) O Arjuna 1 both yourself and 





GITA, TRANSLATION & COMMENTARY, CB AP. IV 943 

anftsfN ^ i 

STf^T^ ^JT^T^JTTrlRTW >' I 

?r?r f| mtttt • 

aP^SrV^TJnTNrfer rT^SrJTT^ ^3ITT3I^ U ^ 11 

Myself have lived through many lives. 1 know ill this; (and) 
O Paruntapa! you do not (this is the difference). ( 6 ) Being 
the Lord of (all) created beings, and free from births, (and) 
though the form of My Atman never suffers ‘ vjaya’ (that is, 
modification), yet, governing My own Prakrt, I come to 
birth by My own Maya. 

[ In the Spiritual Knowledge contained in tins stanza, a 
fusion luis been made of the K.i.piia-Bamkliya with the 
Vedanta philosophy. The Sahikhya doctrine j,s that the 
Prakrti creates the world of its own aciioM; but the 
Vedantins look upon Prakrti as a form of the P iramesvara, 
and holitwe that the world is iireatcd as <•. result of 
the Paramiisvara governing (l)oconiing adriftfliita in) 
His own Prakrti, This unimaginable power of the 
Parainesvara to create the entire cosinos from His Imper¬ 
ceptible form is called ‘Maya' in the Gita; a id there are 
similarly such statements in the Svmtasvatar ipanisad as 
‘‘mayum In pnikHi/'n vidj/an niaijimim hi iikiIicsv iraiii" (S ve. 

4. 10), that is, “Prakrti Is nothing else but Miiya, and the 
Paramesvara is the Lord of that Maya”, and “•tsindn mayi 
.sT/Vhi' i:isr(iin etat” (Sve. 4. 9), that is, “from it, Iho Lord of 
Maya, creates this world”. Bee the exhaustive discussion 
made by me in Ghaptor IX of the Glta-Rahiusya on the 
questions, (i) why is Prakrti calhul ‘Maya’? ii) what is 
the form of this Maya V (iii) what is meant by saying that 
the world is created as a result of Maya? etc. Having thus 
explained how the Imperceptible (dvijakta) I'aramesvara 
becomes Perceiitibhi (vijakta), that is to say, how Karma 
is seen to have come into existence, the Blessed Lord now 
explains when and why Ho does so—]. 

(7) O Bharata! whenever Righteousness ('ccUnes and 
Unrighteousness becomes powerful, then I M 3 seif come to 





944 


gIta-rahasya or karma-yoga 


'TRsrrDTR ^r^sTf ^ i^fjcrr*!: i 

vi^'^>«ir»TJTr-4T?T ^it gir» c u 

§§ ^?Pr ^ ^ %T% cTrclrT; I 

35T^»T %t^ HWm ^S#T l> % « 

lTT*T?Tr JTTgqTmrTT: I 

f RfTT^r ^T H^RJTRR: h to h 

birth. (8j I take birth in different Yugas for protecting the 
Righteous and destroying the Unrighteous, and for establi¬ 
shing Righteousness. 

[ In both the.se stanzas, the word ‘ Dhaiuna ’ does not mean 
‘ the Vedic religion relating to life in the other world’. The 
word principally means and includes the duties of the four 
castes, justice, morality, and other similar things. The 
import of this stanza is that when injustice, immorality, 
cruelty, and tyranny begin to rule in the world and the 
righteous are harassed and the unrighteous predominate, the 
Blessed Lord becomes incarnated in the shape of a brilliant 
and powerful human being, in order that proper order 
should rule in the world which He created, and that 
the world should derive happiness {Gl. 10, 41); and He thus 
re-establishes the disorganised condition of the world. It 
has been stated in the previous chapter that ‘ luhmimjraha' 
(Universal welfare) is only another name for the work 
which the Blessed Ijord does by becoming incarnated in this 
manner; and that the Self-Realised ( alind-Jiinnins ) must do 
the same work as far as their power or authority extends. 
(Gl. 3. 20). It has thus been stated when and for what 
reason the Paramesvara becomes incarnated. The Blessed 
Lord now explains what state is attained by those persons 
who realise this principle and act according to it— ] 

(9) He, who understands the principle underlying these 
transcendental births and Actions, he, O Arjuna !, after 
shedding the Body, comes and joins Me, without being 
re-born. (10) Many people, whose love, anger, and fear 
have gone, who are devoted to Me, and seek :shelter in Me. 




GiTA, TRANSLATION & COMMENTARY, CHAP. IV 94S 


§§ ^ gssrr W ?TRcT%2r I 

w TigK^n: ’Tt4 wW > 

becoming (thus) pure by the austerity in the shape of 
Knowledge, have come and become merged in My Form. 

[ In order to understand the transcendental t)irths of the 
Blessed Lord, it is necessary to understand ho v the Para- 
mesvara bGconies qualityful as a result of Maya; and when 
one understands that, one acijuires Spiritual Knowledge; 
and when one fully understands tlie transcendental Karma 
or Action of the Blessed Lord, one becomes acquainted with 
the principle of remaining unattached to iCarma even 
after performing it. In short, when one has fully under¬ 
stood the transcendental births and the transcendental 
Karma of the Paramosvara, one becomes fully acquainted 
with both Spiritual Knowledge and Karma-Ycga; and, as 
that is all which is necessary for obtaining Release, such 
a person liannot but ultimately obtain union with the Blessed 
Lord. Therefore, when a man has Realised t ie transcen¬ 
dental births and the trausoondental Karma ol the Blessed 
Lord, tliat is all he need Realise; and it is not necessary to 
separately study .Spiritual Knowledge or the Dasireless 
Karma-Yoga. Therefore, the Blessed Lord asks you to 
contemplate on liis births and deeds, and understand 
the principle underlying them, and act accordingly; and 
says that, having done this, iiotiring else is required to be 
done for obtaining union with the Blessed Lord. This is 
indeed the true worship of the Blessed liurd. The Blessed 
Lord now mentions the fruit and the usefulness of inferior 
kinds ol' worship— ] 

(11) In that way in which they worship hie, I give them 
Fruit accordingly. O Partha ! whichever pat!i is followed, 
a man ultimately comes and joins into My path. 

[The latter portion of this stanza, namely, “mania 
varlmuHimirtiin/e'’ etc,, has come above (3,^3) in a some¬ 
what dilTeront meaning; and that will show how the 
meaning of words differs in the Gita, according to anterior 
and posterior contexts. The Blessed Lord no\v explains why 





946 


GlTA-RAHASYA OB KARMA-YOGA 


^T|-?rr: f%r% %^rrTr-1 

%ST RI5«r II II 

§§ R?n ^ I 

?T^ RT II H 

different persons reach Him by different paths, if it is true 
that by whichever way one goes, one ultimately reaches 
the Paramesvara—] 

(12) People, who desire (only) the Fruit of Action 
(and not the destruction of the bonds of Karma), worship 
deities in this world, because, (tliat) Fruit of Action is soon 
obtained in this world of human beings. 

[These very ideas have appeared again later on in 
Chapter VII (See Gi, 7. 31, 23). The true fruit of the 
worship of the Paramesvara is Release, and it is obtained 
only after the bund of Action has been fully destroyed, 
after a considerable length of time and by deep and solitary 
worship; but, very few persons are so far-sighted or 
industrious. This stanza means that almost all people 
want to have something or other in this world, as the B'ruit 
of their Action; and that such people run after deities 
{Gi. Ra. Ch. XIII p. 589). But the Gita says that this is 
in the end a kind of wor,ship of the Paramesvara, and that 
when this Yoga grows, it ultimately culminates in Desiroless 
Worship, and eventually Release is obtained (Gi. 7. 19), 
The Blessed Lord has explained before that the Paramesvara 
beconies incarnated for the re-establishment of Righteous¬ 
ness. HE now explains in short what is necessary to be done 
for the re-establishment of Righteousness.— ] 

(13) I Myself have created the arrangement of the 
four castes (into Brahmins, Ksalriyas, Vaisyas, and Siidras), 
consistently with the differences in their qualities and 
Actions. It is I, Who am the Maker of it, and (I am) also an 
akarta (that is. One Who has not made that arrangement), 
and avyaya (that is, inexhaustible—Trans.). 

[This stanza means that although the Paramesvara is the 
Doer {kurta), yet, as He is always unattached {nihsanya) as 




GlTA, TRANSLATION & COMMENTARY, CHAP. IV 947 


5T nf f%PiTf?cr 51 51 I 

?T% 5rt 5fTsnr3n5in% ^ <> « 

flTr^IT 1)^ I 

^ cT^JTTt^ lirn? II V^~ II 

described hi tho next .stanza, He is neces.sarily a Non-Doer 
(akar/u), (Soo Gita. 5.14). There are also otlitr apparently 
incon.sistent de.seriptions later on o! the form of the 
Parames vara, e.g., “ KarryutIriijwiioMhhami'u n iri.vndriyavi- 
vnrjiliim" (Gi. 15. U). See the description of tJ'e difference 
between tlie iinalities of the four different castes later on in 
Chapter XVTII (18. 41-4‘J). Tlie lilos.sed Lord row explains 
the iiidden meaning of the words, ‘ (.)uo Who does, and at 
the .same time, doe.s not do', which the Bits.*ed Lord has 
used wiih rcCerence to .tliniseif—j 
(14) I am not touched by the Icpa, (tliat is, the adverse 
effect) of Larina, because, My Desire is not nthcFruitof 
Action. He who Knows iVIc in that way, is no; affected by 
Karma. 

[It has hcen stated ahovo in the i)th stanza tliat “ he who 
understands My hirtli and My ..4.ction attains Release ”. 
This stanza, contains an elucidation of the principle of 
‘Action’ mentioned in that stanza. The word ‘under¬ 
stands’ me.uis and incindos ‘understands and acts 
accordingly 'J’his stanza means that the Blessed Lord is 
not afrocl,ed by the Action which 1 le performs, because He 
docs not iicrfonii the Action, entertaining i.lu Hope of 
Bruit; and he who nndorstands this princi))! i and acts 
accordingly cannot he affected hy Action. I' le Blessed 
fjord now fortifies the projiosition laid down in this stanza 
by an actual examiile—J 

(H) Knowing this, those who strove after Emancipation 
in ancient times, also performed Action; therefore, do you 
also perform tlie Action (Karma) performed by the ancients 
in the past. 

IA definite advice has boeu given to Arjuna 1o perform 
Action, as there is no antagonism between Action and Release. 
But tins gives rise to a doubt as to what is osseiitially 




948 


GlTA-RAHASYA OB KARMA-YOGA 


§§ ^ HtflrTT: I 

^ T^T^nfoT: i 

ar^ora ir^sR ^ott *Tia: ii ii 

meant by the opinion of the School of Renunciation that 
‘ Release is attained by Abandonment of Action, that is, 
by Inaction (akanm)'. Therefore, the Blessed Lord now 
starts a disquisition on what Action is; and He ultimately 
lays down in the 23rd stanza the i)ropoBition that Non- 
Action (aA'arma) does not consist in giving up Action; and 
that, Desireless Action is to be called Non-Action (akarina).] 

(16) Even the Wise are confused as to what is karma 
(Action—Trans.), and what is nhnrma (Abandonment of 
Action—Trans.) ; (therefore,) I shall explain to you that kind 
of Karma, by knowing which, you will be free from sin. 

[ ‘ akarma ’ is a ‘ ndu-sainana ’; and the ‘ « ’ = ‘ nan ’, in it, 
grammatically means both ‘ absence of ’ (abhava), or 
‘ impropriety of ’ (dprasaslija) ; and it cannot be said that 
both these meanings may not bo meant here. Nevertheless, 
as a third division of Action called ‘ vikunna' has been 
mentioned in the next stanza, the word ‘ akarma ’ 
in this stanza must be taken to mean particularly, 
that ‘ Abandonment of Action ’ which the School 
of Renunciation called ‘ the literal abandonment of 
Action ’. Nay, it will be seen from my commentary on the 
18th stanza, that it is not necessary to totally abandon 
Action, as prescribed by the School of Renunciation ; that, 
such Abandonment of Action is not true ‘ akarina ’; and 
that, the true moaning of the word ‘akarma’ is quite 
different.] 

(17) The path {gatih —Trans.) of Karma is moot; 
(therefore,) it is necessary to understand what is karma,. 
(that is, Action—I'rans.) and it is necessary to understand 
what is vikarma (vipatata karma), (that is, Wrong Action— 
Trans.); and it is also necessary to understand what is 




GITA, TRANSLATION & COMMENTARY, C BAP. IV 949 

q^ii<i«hRiaT g;JT ?i: i 

^ ^ gw- i» u 

akarma (not performing Action). (18) Tliat man, who 
sees Inaction in Action, and Action in lia ction, is the 
Jnanin (sage—Trans.) among men; he is ‘yikta’, (that is, 

‘yoga-yukla'), (that is, steeped in the Karma-Yoga—Trans.),, 
and one who performs all .'Vctions. 

I This and the following live .stanzas contain a 
description of ‘/('n/v/aY, and ‘akt/niui' and ' vikamtu’; and 
whatever has been leftover here has been made up later on 
in Chapter XVni, where the throe kinds of Abandonment 
of Action {karina-t!/u(ia}, the three kinds of Action (karrna) 
and the three kinds (.)f Doers (kartaj luxve been explained 
(GT. 18. 4-9 ; 23-25 ; and 21) 28). ft is necossarr to explain 
here in short and clearly what the doctrines ol the Gita are 
about karvKt, ukaruui, and likarma, having ;-egard to the 
dis(iui.sitions on .Karma in these two places; because, the 
commentators have created -a comsiderabb.! amount of 
confusion about tlxese thlng.s. The followers c f the School 
of Ronunedatiotx favour the ‘literal’ abandonment of 
Action ; and, therefore, tluiy try to .stretch the meaning of 
the term ‘ n/mr/na ’ here in support of their own dcjctrine; 
and the follower,s of the Mimarhsa school favour desire- 
prompted Action like Yajilas and Yagas; aid look u])on 
everything else as ‘ vikuriiia ’. There are besides, the 
differences of the Mimaihsa school between the Daily (nifya) 
and the Occasional {nuiiiiillik(t) Action; and tie supporters 
of the S:istra.s try at the same time to push forward their 
own doctrine. In short, as a result of this stn telling in all 
directions, it ultimately becomes very difficult to understand 
what the Gita understands as ' nkarma' end what as 
‘ vikannn Therefore, it must ho borne in mind in the fir,st 
instance, that the scientific basis on which this |)ointhas been 
considered in the Gita is the path of tlie Karma-Yogin, who 
performs Action desirelessly ; and not of the Mimamsakas, 
who perform Desire-prompted Action, nor of tl e followers of 
the^ Soliool of lienunci.ation, who abandon Action. When 
one accepts this lia.sis of the Gita, it follows fust of all that 



950 


GiTA-RAHASYA OR KARMA-YOGA 


■ alcarma' cannot possibly mean ‘ karmasunyata ’ (total 
absence of Action); and that no man can under any circum¬ 
stances be Inactive (Gl. 3. 5; 18.11); because, nobody can 
escape sleeping, sitting, or at any rate, being alive; and 
if it is impossible to be totally Inactive (karma-sanya), 
one has to decide what is meant by ‘‘akarma’. To this 
the reply of the Gita is: Do not look upon ‘ Karma ’ as ‘ the 
mere performing of Action ’; but decide as to whether an 
Action is ‘ Icarnia' or ‘ akarma' by considering the good or 
bad results which How from it. If the Cosmos itself is 
karma, man cannot escape karma, so long as he exists in 
the Cosmos. Therefore, the consideration of what a man 
should do or not do, must be from the point of view of to 
what extent such Action will prejudicially affect him. 
Tliat Action, which being performed, does not prejudicially 
affect the Doer, must be deemed to have lost its nature of 
being a ‘ karma ’ (that is, its ‘ lainnalva ’), or its binding 
force {bandtut,kalva)\ and if in this way, any Karma loses its 
‘ karrnalva ’ or ‘ bandliakatm ’, the!i necessarily that ‘ karma ’ 
becomes an ‘akarma'. It is true that the ordinary meaning 
of the wcxrd ‘ akarma' is‘ total absence of Action ’ ( karrm- 
sTinyald); but considering the matter scientifically, that 
meaning is not appropriate here, because even ‘sitting 
quiet’, that is, ‘not doing anything’, is very often an 
Action ill itself. For instance, if one sits quiet, when 
someone is hammering one’s pai’ents, and does not do 
anything to protect them, that is ‘Inaction’ \akarma), 
that is, ‘total absence of Action’ (karmasunyafva), according 
to the ordinary meaning of the word. It is nevertheless 
an ‘ Action ’ ( lairina ), nay, even a Wrong Action (vikarma ); 
and, according to the doctrine of Causality, one cannot 
escape the evil results of this kind of Action. Therefore, 
the Gita says paradoxically and very skilfully in this 
stanza that he who understands that even ‘akarma' 
amounts to ‘karma' (sometimes, even very terrible karma)-, 
and also that even in performing Action, such Action 
is ‘ dead action ' or ‘ alcarma ’ from the point of view of 
Causality, is the real Jnanin; and this meaning has been 
explained in different ways in the subsequent stanzas. 




GITA, TRANSLATION&(X)MMENTARY, CHAP. IV 951 


According to the Gita science, the only true luenns by which 
one escapes the bondage of Action is by performing Action 
unattachedly, that is, ‘ giving up the Hope oJ Pruit ’ (See 
Gl. Ra. Gh. V. pp. 148 to 15(5 and Ch, X, p. 394 , Therefore, 
that Action alone, which is performed in this way, that is, 
unattachedly, is the proper, that is, the suftmka Action, 
according to the Gita (Gl. 18. 9). That is the true 
‘Non-Action’ (alcarma) according to the Gita; because, its 
^ karmatixi' (that is, its nature of being a ' larnmi’), or its 
binding force {handhalaifm) according to i:he law of 
Causality (is lost. When, from all 
that men do, (and even sitting idle is included in the word 
‘do’), Action of the above kind, that is, sativikv. Action, or,. 
'akarina' according to the Gita, is deducted, all that 
remains (uui he divided into two parts, namely, (i) ruj<.wa 
Action ar. 1 (ii)/(Tmn.svt A cti > 11 . Out of this,/lonasa Action 
is the result of Ignorance (inoha), and therefore, it falls into 
the category of Wrong Action { vUcaniia). 'J’bus, if Action 
is abandoned as a result of Ignorance, it is stili. a ‘vilcanm', 
not an 'akarrna' (Gl. 18. 7). Then remains the rUjasa 
Action. This Action is not of the first <dass, tliat is, mltiyika\ 
nor is it what the Gita de,scrib 0 s as true ‘aknnn i'. The Gita 
calls this‘rdja.sYj Action’; but if any one warns to do so, 
he may use the single word ‘ karnKi ’ to ineaTi t his kind of 
rujum Action. I n short, whether a particular Action is a 
‘ A:arma ’ or an ‘ uto'/m’is to be decided according to the 
binding force of the Action, and not from i',s nature of 
being an act, nor also according to what may 1 e laid down 
in barren religious treatises. The Astavakra-Gita .supports 
the Path of Renunciation. Yet, even in it, it is said that: 

nivrUir api niadhasi/a pravrtHr upajdyate I 

priivr/tir api dhirasija ■tiivrttiphalahhdginl ii 

(Asta. 18. 61); 

that is: “ the ‘of fools, that Is, their turning away 
from Action, as a result of perversity or of Ignoraiico, in 
itself amounts to ‘ pravrlli' or ‘Karrna’; and the ‘pravHtt of 
the wis«;, that is to say, their Desireless Action, gives the 
same hfnefit as nivrtti (i.e.. Renunciation) or karmatydga 




953 


GiTA-RAHASYA OR KARMA-YOGA 


lTr5TTf?r?T'T^aT ^JTTf; qfd^cT ^vn: II U 
^RJT’TT^yT’^Tf f^^CRSRT- I 

^o^n^q^rnSR T%T%c^ ^Tm II ^0 II 

T%G#?TrT(%^TrITr | 

?TRfT ^ ir^^Tsfrm ii ii 

(that is, Abandonment of Action)”. This very meaning has 
been very skilfully, paradoxically, and metaphorically set 
out in the above stanza; and unless one carefully bears 
in mind this definition of ‘ akarma ’, he cannot fully 
understand the argument about ‘ karma ' and ‘ alairma' 
in the Gita. The Blessed ijord now explains this very 

moaning more explicitly in the following stanzas-] 

<19) He, whose samammbkah (that is, Actions) are devoid 
of the Desire for Fruit, is referred to by Jhanins, as the 
learned man, whose Actions are reduced to ashes in the 
Fire of Knowledge. 

[This clearly shows that, "karma (Action) is reduced 
to ashes by jnana ”, is not to be understood as direc- 
tirig Abandonment of Action, but the performance of 
Action, having abandoned the Desire for Fruit. (Gl. Ra. 
Ch. X, pp. 394-400), Similarly, the meaning of the words 
‘ sarvarainbha-pariltjrKjT ’, —that is, ‘ one who gives up all 
aramhha or activity ’,—which appear later on in the 
description of the devotee of the Blessed Lord (Gi. 13, 16 ; 

14. 35), is also made clear by this. Now the Blessed Lord 
makes the same meaning more explicit as follows—■ ] 

(20) (The man) Who, having given up the Attachment 
for the Fruit of Action, is always happy and nircisraya [ that 
is, one who does not possess a Reason, which has taken 
'shelter’ (asraya —Trans.) in the means of obtaining the 
Fruit of Action, by wishing to do a particular Action, for a 
particular result] is (said to be) doing nothing whatsoever, 
though he may be engrossed in performing Actions. (21) 
When a person, who gives up the aslh (that is, the Desire for 
Fruit), who regulates his Mind, and who has become free 



GITA,TRANSLATION &CX)MMENTARy, CHAP. IV 953 


W T%^T«n%#' ^ ITr^ITTtr JT M 9 

Ilrf^f frRPlft'4rr%rT^: I 

^^T^r^caf-. iiR?fT?T^ II 

from all Altachmcnls, performs Actions, which are merely 
sanra (that is, performed by the Body, or only by the organs 
of Action), he does not incur sin. 

[Some commentator.s int(!rj)Tet the word ‘ •tun'iraiia' in the 
30th Htaii'/a as ‘ one who has no home ’ that is, a 
Saihnyasin ; but that is not correct. The word tisraya ’ may 
he interpreted to mean ‘house’ or ‘home’; but vdiat is meant 
in the [irestmt place i.s not the ‘ homo ’ of the person who does 
the act, but the ‘ homo ’ in the .shapo of ‘ a miAi ve for the act 
which he performs’; and what i.s jucant ii, that there 
should bo no sucii ‘ home ’; and the samo meaning has been 
made clear in the words ' aiiuxri/<ih karmapliokn'ii' (Gl. 6. 1); 
and the saino meaning has also Itoen adopte; by Wajnan 
I’andit in Ids Marathi commontary on the Gita known as the 
Yalliaiihddipika. Sindlarly, the word ‘ sdrira ’ in the ‘^Ist 
stanza does not mean the A(ition of Ijcgging alms sufficient 
for the Jiiaintenancc of tlie body, etc. Tlio tri e moaning of 
the words ‘/cc/'a/a/h .ihrim/h Icariiia' is consistent with the 
descriptiiui contained later on in Ctiapter V (5. 11) that, 

“ Yogins, that is, Karma-Yogins perform all Actions merely 
by their organs of Action, without entertaining any Attach¬ 
ment or Desire in their minds”. It is true the.t the organs 
of Action porform the Action, hut as the IMiad is equable, 
the person wlio jrerforms the Action, does not incur either 
sin or merit,] 

(22) The; man, who is satisfied with whatever falls to his lot 
according to fortuitous circumstance, who i.c free from the 
pairs of Opposites (such as, happiness and un iappiness etc.), 
who is devoid of jealousy, and who considers it the same, 
whether there is success lor the Action or no;:, is not bound 
by the merit or the sin of Actions, even though he performs 
(Actions). (23) (He) Who is wiLliout Attachment, free (from 
love and hate), whose Mind is concentrated on Knowledge 




954 


QlTA-EAHASYA OR KAEMA-YOGA 


(in the shape of an Equable Reason), and who performs- 
Actions (merely) for the purpose of a Yajna, his entire Karma 
is destroyed. 

[The doctrine explained in Chapter III above (3. 9), that 
Action or ritual performed for the sake of a Yajna does 
not become binding according to the Mimamsa school, and 
that when the same Action is performed with Attachment, 
it becomes productive of Release instead of leading 
to heaven, is again referred to in this stanza. The word 
‘ samagrai'u ’ in the phrase ‘ samaqrai'n pravillyate ’ is very 
important. The Mimamsa school looks upon the happiness 
of heaven as the highest ideal, or the sutnniuiii boivurn; 
and in their opinion. Action which leads to heaven is 
not binding; but the Gita aims beyond heaven, that 
is, at Release; and from this point of view, even that 
Action which loads to heaven, is binding. Therefore, it is 
said that if Action is performed, even for the purpose of a 
Yajna, but with an unattached Reason, it is ‘ totally ’ 
(saniagra) destroyed, that is to say, it does not become 
productive even of heaven but leads to Release. But, 
nevertheless, there is an important distinction to be borne 
in mind in the portion of this Chapter which deals with the 
Yajnas. In Chapter III, it has been stated that the.se same 
Yajnas, that is, the immemorial Yajna-ca/o'a or the 
paraphernalia of ritualistic performances, prescribed by 
the Srutis and the Smrtis, must be kept going; but the 
Blessed Lord now says that the word ‘ Yajna ’ is not 
to be taken in the limited meaning of ‘ offering HI (sesamum) 
or rice or animals into the fire ’, as offerings to deities, or as 
meaning the performance of the duties relative to the four 
castes, in accordance with their respective religion, though 
desirefully. The words ‘ idufu m mama ’ uttered at the end 
of the hymn, while throwing the offering into the fire, which 
mean ‘ this is not mine contain a selfless, non-egotistical 
principle, which is the most important part of the Yajna; 
and, performing in this way all the Actions of one’s life, 
saying ‘ na mama' (that is, ‘ this is not mine ’), that is, 
giving up mine-ness and performing them merely with the 
idea of dedicating them to the Brahman, is in itself a 






GITa.THANSLATION &COMMENTAEY, CHiP. IV 955 


§§ wgnqoT agion frT»i i 

sT^ ^ 4|Vdeg II ^8 II 

IgFcTFIT ^ ?fn'?r^: qt’TraH I 
g^iTTi gi ET ii ii 

stupeiiclotis Yajna, or 'hoina ’; and by means of this Yajfia, 
an offering of oblation (yajumi) is made to the deity of all 
deities, that is, to the Paraniesvara, or the Brahman. 
Needless to say, the doctrines of the Mimairsa school 
relating to thc! sacrifice of wealth apply equally v'cll to thi.s 
stupendous sacrifice; and the person who performs every 
Action in the world unattachedly, and for the sake of 
Universal Wedfare (/o/rnsn/hpra/tn) becomes liberated from 
the ‘ entire ’ ( mmayra ) consaiuence of the Action, and 
ultimately attains Release ((Ii. Ra. Ch. XI, pp. 478 to 483). 
This stupendous Ya.ina in the form of dedicating everything 
to the Bralimaii is described in the beginning of the next 
stanza ; and the Ble.s.sod Lord after describing the]eaf ter the 
form of otlver specific Yajuas of lessc.r importance sums up 
the whole thing in the 33rd stanza by saying thai, “such a 
‘ Jnana-yajfla’ (sacrifice of Knowledge) is the bes; of all”.] 
(241 He, wtiosc belief is that the arpana (thac is, the act 
of offering) is Brahman ; tliat, the havi (that is, tire oblation 
which is to be offered) is Brahman; tliat, the Braht ran offered, 
a sacrifice into the Brahman-fire ; and that, (all Karma is 
(in this way) Brahman, attains the Brahman. 

[ In the Samkara-hhasya, tfio word ‘ arpami ’ has been 
interpreted as “tiro means by which the offering’ 
{urpawi) is made, such as a ladle etc.”; but t rat inter¬ 
pretation is rather far-fetched. It is more to the point to 
take the word ‘ arjxma as mcaniirg the ' act of ofierrng ’ or 
‘ the act of offering into the fire ’. Tims far, there las been 
a description oi' persons who perform the Ya;jha des irelessly, 
that is, in order to dedicate it to the Brahman (that is, make 
a ' hniJniiarpitva ’ of it). Tiro Blessed Lord now describes the 
desire-prompted Yajha addressed to particular deities— j 
(25) Some (Karma-) Yogins perform sacrifice addressed to 
deities (instead of for dedicating it to the Br.dr narr); and 




956 


GiTA-RAHASYA OR KARMA-YOGA 


^^ri55r^RrT5Tr?j u u 

^^frafrfj^^far STTOigjTTffor I 

3TrriT^'?ifr4'nTi# ITTJT^nqa u u 

others rnuke a sacrifice of a Yajfia, by a Yajna, into the 
Brahman-fire. 

[The latter portion of this stanza refers to the description 
in the Purusa-Sukta that the gods offered a sacrifice to the 
Virata-formed Ya]na.-puriim, rf., ‘‘yajnt’na yiij/lam. ayajanla 
d<’vah" (Rg. 10. 90. 16); and the words, “uajnai'n yajneruiiv- 
■opajahixiti'' in this stanza are .synonymous with the words 
"yajneva yajfiani ayajaiita” in the Rg-Veda, and seem to 
be used accordingly. It is evident that the Virata-formed 
animal, which was sacrificed into the Yajna performed in 
the beginning of the world, and the god, for propitiating 
whom the sacrifice was made, must both have been of the 
form of the Brahman. In short, as the Brahman con¬ 
tinually pervades all things in the world, the .statement 
in the 24th stanza that, in performing all Actions desire- 
lessly, the Brahman is always sacrificed by the Brahman, 
is scientifically correct; all tluit is wanted is that one’s 
Mind has been formed accordingly. This is not the only 
stanza in the Gita which refers to the .Piirum-Sllk/a, but 
later on, the description in Chapter X, is also consistent 
with that Sakla. The Blessed Lord has now described the 
Yajhas perfermed for propitiating particular deities. HE 
now explains how the Yogic performance of Breath Control 
{ prariayarna ) etc., prescribed in the Patanjala-Yoga, or even 
the performance of religious austerities, is a kind of Yajna, 
if the words \iyrd’ (tire), ‘hivi’ (sacrificial offering) etc., 
are taken in their symbolical meanings— ] 

(26) Others sacrifice the krotradi (that is, ears, eyes, etc.) 
organs into the Fire ( a<rni ) in the shape of a Limit 
{samyarnana); and others again, sacrifice the objects of sense, 
such as, sound etc. into the Fire in the shape of the senses, 

(27) Others still, sacrifice all the Actions (that is, functions) of 
the various organs, and vital forces (prana) into tin Fire of 



GTTA, translation & COMMENTARY, CHAP. IV 957 


Yoga in the shape of Mental control, which has been lit by 
Knowledge (jfiana). 

[ In the ahove stanza, are described two or three different 
kinds of symbolical Yajnas e. g., (1) controlling ihe senses, 
that is, all'jwing them to p(!rform tlndr respective functions 
within proper limits; ('2) totally d(«troying the senses, by 
wholly giving up the objects of simse, which g:) to feed 
the senses; (3) piitting-an end to the Actions, not only of the 
senses, but. oven of the vital forces ( prana ) themselves, 
by entering into a coinplote mental absorption ( Hninadhi), 
and remaining steeped in the joy of the Atman. Now, 
if those ore compared with a Yajha, then, in the first 
kind of ’^’ajna, th(> limit (mniiinniaiia) which is placed 
on the senses becomes the Fire (agni); l)e(ause, by 
working out the simile, all that enters the limit may 
be said to have been olhired into the Fire, Similarly, in 
the second kind of Yajua, the organs themsolve.s, and 
in the third kind of Yajha, both the organs and the 
piilna (vital forces) are compared with the material 
offered up as a sacrifice-otfering, and the Control of the 
Atman ( (ilniasa/ui/aniana ) becomos the Fire. There are, 
be.sides, others, who only perform the Pranayama (i. e., 
control of the Prana (life) in the shape of the breath—■ 
Trans.); and these are described further on in the 29th 
stanza. This idea of .symbolically (extending th( original 
meaning of tlie word ‘.//aj/to’, namely, ‘a saarilice of 
various matorials ’, and making it include religious 
austerities (lapa), Rcmunciation ( namnyUru ), Mental 
absorption (raniddlu), C(mtrol of the prdmi or breath 
(prdnuyUnnt), and otlier nanuis of getting merged into the 
Blessed Lord, has not heon mentioned for the inst time 
in the Gitri. In the 4th chapter of the ManmSmiti, where 
the state of the house-holder is hoing described, after 
stating that no house-holder should give up the five 
princiiial sacrifices (inalid-yiijna) prescril)ed by the Smrti.s, 
namely, the Rsi-yajiia, the Deva-yajha, the Bhuta-yajha, 
the Manusya-yajna, and the Pitr-yajria, it is stxted that 
many persons “sacrifice the speech into the organs, or the 
Prana (life) into the speech, or ultimately even oropitiate 





958 


GiTA-RAHASYA OR KARMA-YOGA 


^Ricrarn; ii ii 

3Ttrr^ srniT snwistrR cTsqrsq^ i 

STTOirTTST^T^t snoirqurq^Rnn: II 11 

the Paramesvara by a Jnana-yajha (that is, the sacrifice by 
Knowledge, or sacrificing everything into the sacrificial 
fire of Knowledge—Trans.)”, (Manu. 4. 21-24). Considering 
the matter from the historical point of view, it can be seen 
that when the sacrifice of wealth of various kinds 
prescribed in the Sruti-tcxts for propitiating Indra, Varuna, 
and other deitie.s fell into disuse, and the devices of 
attaining the state of the Paramesvara by Patahjala-yoga, 
Samnyasa, or Metaphysical Knowledge came more and 
more into vogue, the meaning of the word ‘Yajna’ was 
widened, and it was made to symbolically include all 
the various device,s of obtaining Release. The principle 
at the root of this is the tendency to indicate subsequent 
religious methods by the same technical terms as had 
come to be formerly accepted in the religion. Whatever 
may bo the case, it is clear from this exposition in 
the Mami-Smyti, that this idea had acquired general 
acceptance before, or at any rate at the same' time as, 
the Gita.] 

(28) In this way, some Yatins observing severe vows (that 
is, persons who have acquired mental control) perform the 
sacrifice of wealth ; others perform the sacrifice by austerity, 
others by Yogic practices, others by svadhyaya (that is, by 
observing the ritual prescribed for one's own caste), and 
others by Jfiana (i.c., Knowledge—Trans.), (29) Others taking 
to prmdyama, and controlling the movements of the prana 
(outgoing breath—Trans.) and the a/id«« (incoming breath— 
Trans.) breaths, sacrifice the /ird/m-brcath into the apdna- 
breath, while others sacrifice the a/dwn-breath into tlie prdna- 
breath. 

[The idea conveyed by this stanza is that performing 
the Pranayama (breath-control) according to the Patanjalu 
Yoga i.s a kind of Yajila. As this Yajna in the form of 




GITA, TR ANSLATKJN & COMMENTARY, CH A P. IV 959 

the Patanjala-Yoga has been mentioned in the 29th 
stanza, this words ‘sacrifice by Yoglc practices' ('yoga- 
yajna ') in the 28th stanza invist h(! taken to moan 
the Vajfii according to Karma-Yoga. Tie word 
'' prana' in the term ' /irdnayaiiui ’ usually indicates 
both the svdy.a (itdialing) and the nrchvusa (exhaling) 
of the lireath; but when a distinction is made 
between ‘ prana.' and ' apaiui the word ' prana ’ moans the 
‘ uut-gning ’ lireath, that is to say, the ‘/ta'/M’iVsn ’ breath ; 
and the wan'd ' apana' means tile ‘incoming’ la lath. (Ve. 
Sii. Sfun. Blifi. 2. 4. 12; and Chandogya Sarii. Bh i. 1, 3. 3), 
It must, be borne in mind that these meanings of the words 
' praiui' a.id ' ujmia' are diilereiiL from their ordinary 
meanings. Taking these meaning,s, when the pri'iMi, that 
is, the exh.ilod breath or tiie ‘ nci'hrdsa ’ has been sacrificed 
into the apnnu, that is, the intakon breath, the p'-ariuyuiiui 
which is perrormed, is known as the ' purara'■, and 
conversely, wlicn the a/jdna ba.s lioen .sacrificed into the prdria, 
the praiidyUiiui wliieli, is peiToriiU'd is. named 'recaka'. 
When both the pr'dm and file ajidiiaari.'. controlled os stopped, 
the prlhiwjdina whicli is porl'ormed is naaned ' hu nhhaka'\ 
now there renui in btssides these, the tliree hrcatls named 
mjana, lalttin, and saindii.a. Out of these, the breatli ' vyd'iui’ is 
located at the meeting point between the prana and the 
apdna, and comes to he used when one has to perform 
actions roiiuiriiig force, when one jiartially cf ntrols the 
breath, such as, in drawing a how or lifting up weights 
etc. (Oban. 1. 3, 5), The iidiuia liroath is the on i which 
leaves the body at tlic moment of death ( Prasna. 3. 7) and 
the sanidna breath is the lireath which continn.illy takes 
food-juice,s to every part of the body (Prasna, 3. 1 •. These 
are the ordinary meanings of these various kinds c f breath 
a,ccordiug to the Vedanta-Sastra; but in some ph ,ces even 
quite different meanings are intended ; for oxamph , in the 
212t1'i Chapror nf the Vana-parva of tlie Mahahharcta, quite 
dil'ferGiil, charaetori.sties are mentioned of the )irhia and 
other hreabbs ; and 'pram' is explained as niea:ung the 
breath in tlie liead, and the apdna is described as iieanirig 
the breath which e.scapes downwa,rds from too body 



960 


gIta-rahasya or karma-yoga 


f^qcTT^ITT : STroiTTSTTot^ I 
^fTRfr ^Ttr^fqcT^^n^rr:» n 
^ITI^TlcI?33ffr ^CT ggr ^rrTJTJ?: I 

?TT^ J i> u 

(Prasna. 3-5 and Maitryu. 3-6). According to the above 
stanza, the breath which is controlled is said to be 
‘ sacrificed ’ into the other kinds of breath.J 

(30) Others still moderating their food, sacrifice the prana 
(vital airs) into prana itself. All these being sin-diminished 
as a result of sacrifice, and (being) well-versed in sacrifice, 

(31) and partaking of the amrta (food), which remains over 
after the sacrifice, attain the eternal Rrahman. The non- 
performers of sacrifice have not (success even in) this world j 
how then, O Kurusrestha, (can they obtain) the next world ? 

[ In short, although the porforruance of Yajnas is the duty 
of every human being, according to the directions of the 
Vedas, yet, it is not that this Yajua is only of one kind. 
Whether one performs Pranayama, or religious austerities, 
or the reading of the Vedas, or the Agnistoina-yajna, or the 
Pasu-yajna (sacrificing animals), or throws fU, rice, or 
clarified butter into the fire, or performs worship, or 
performs the five doin estic sacrifices ( fir/ui-yajna ), such as, 
mivedya (food offered to household gods), vaisvadevu (food 
offered into the fire), etc., if one has de.stroyed the Attach¬ 
ment for the Fruit of Action, all these become Yajnas in 
the wider meaning of the word; and then, all the doctrines 
of the Mimaihsa school relating to the partaking of what 
remains after the performance of the Yajfia, become 
applicable to each of them. 'I’he first of these rules is that 
‘ no Action performed for the purpose of a Yajna has a 
binding effect and that rule has been mentioned above in 
the 23rd stanza (Bee commentary on Gl. 3. 9). The second 
rule is, that every householder should partake of food in the 
company of his wife, after he has performed the five 
principal sacrifices, and given food to guests, beggars etc., 
and that when a person lives in this manner, the house- 




GITA, TRANSLATION & COMMENTARY, CHAP. IV 961 


holder-state becomes profitable, and leads to a bappy state 
after death. It has been stated in the Manu-Smrti, and in 
other Brnrtis, that every house-holder should always become 
a vighami^i' (i, e., one who eats the mghasa —Tnns.), and 
‘ ainrtaiV (i. e., one who eat.s the (UiiTtu —Trans.), after the word 
‘ w/gr/ia,sa ’ has been defined as meaning ‘whatevei remains 
over alter the guests have eaten’, and the word ‘ a nrla ’ has 
been defined as meaning ’ that whicli remains over after the 
peri'ornianou of the Yajna’; cj'., nKiluimii'n bliiMuS('ijain lu 
yajfudt'mm allianLrtaii”- Mmiu, '1. 2hl5 (Boo Gi. 5. Id and 
Gita, .ha. ]). 4(13). Tlio Blessed Lord now says that this rule 
which applies to the ordinary domestic .sacrifices also applies 
to all the vuriou.s Yajiias mentioned above. Not only is 
any act performed for the purpose of a Yajna not binding, 
but if any portion of these acts, which remains over after 
the performance of the Yajiia, Is utilised by one ftr his own 
use, even th.at i.s not prejudicial. (Siic Gita lia. C,4i ipter ,XLI 
p. 535 hott ,)in). 'the last sentence in this .stanca namely, 
“tho n',)n-pe.rf(.)rnu':r.s of sacrilit^o liavc lud (succe.ss even in) 
this world", i,s fraught with deep meaning and is important. 
It does not mean only that iii the absence of tl e Yajnas 
there is no rain, and tliat in the absence of rain, ti.ie course 
of life on this world cannot go on; but, taking the word 
‘Yajiia’ iji its wider meaning, the social principle, that 
unless every one sacrilicos something Or (.)ther dt a • to him, 
the ordinary course of tho world cannot go ( n, by all 
getting oqu.'il opijortiniities, is ucccHsarily included in it, 
.Por instance, the Western socialistic doctrine that 
unle,s.s every mie contruls his own freedom )f action, 
all others cannot enjoy e<iiial freedom o action, 
is an example of this priuciplo; and if the same meaning 
is to be conveyed in tho terminology of the Gita one will 
have to s[)eak here in terms of a Yajiia, by sa/ing that 
‘unless e\'ery one to .some extent performs a Y.rjiia of his 
Ereeilum ('f Action, the course of life on this world cannot 
go on’. VVheii the Yajiia has thu.s been made the founda¬ 
tion of the (Mitire social structure by thus giving it an 
extended and wide moaning, it need not be said in so many 
word.s that the social arrauginnont will net continue: 



962 


GiTA-RAHASYA OR KARMA-YOGA 


T%fm W^TufT 5# I 
cTR^^f^ ITIrSIT \\\^\\ 

\HM^- qtcTq i 

^ qT'4 itt% u ii 

properly, unless every human being learns to perform these 
Yajiias as pure duties. ] 

02) In this way; various kinds of Yajnas, are always taking 
place in tlie mouth of the Brahman; know that all these 
arise from Karma ; when you have acquired this Knowledge, 
you will obtain Release- 

[The Yajnas of physical materials prescribed by the 
Srutis, such as, the 'ji/n/lsfoma' etc., are performed by 
throwing oblations into the Fire; and as the sacrificial 
fire is supposed to be the month of the gods, these sacrifices 
■are stated by the Sastras to reach the various deities. But, 
some one may raise the doubt tha,t since the symbolical 
Yajnas mentioned above are not performed in Fire, 
which is the mouth of the gods, how can merit be acquired 
by performing them V I’herefore, in order to renrcjvo this 
•doubt, the Blessed Kord now says that these Yajnas are 
performed into the mouth of the Brahman itself. The 
purport of the second part of the stanza is that he who 
understand,s this extended meaning of the performance of 
a Yajna, and doe.s not understand that word in the narrow 
moaning given to it by the Mimaiiisa school, does not 
remain narrow-minded, but is enabled to understand the 
form of the Braliman. The Bles.sed Lord now explains 
which is the most superior of all these kinds of Yajnas—] 

{3.1) O Parantiipa! tlie jnana-maya yajna (tlrat is, the 
Yajna pefonnod by sacrificing everything into the Fire of 
Realisation—Trans.) is better than the dravya-maya 
yajna (tliat is, tlie Yajna, performed by sacrificing materials— 
Trans.); because, O Partlia! all Actions of all kinds 
are ultimately merged in Jfiaim. 

[The word ‘ Jhana-yajiia ’ has occurred twice later on in 
the Gita (Gl. 9. 15 and 18. 70). The Yajnajof materials 



GiTvl, TRAN STATION & COMMENTARY. CHAP. IV 963 


§§ srfoTqT^^T ( 

3q'^S|‘?}l'TfT ^ fTT^r lTTl%5T?f?TTqf?l%q: II II 

qrFqT% qro^q i 

qiT ^i^yq^qoi ^^ii^qTrqyqsijt in?r n ii 

poiTorvnoii by men, is perl'oi-niod by them loe attaining 
the Paramcsvara, But nne eaniiot attain Uie Paramesvara, 
unlest; one is aciinaintod witli libs form, rherelore, the 
inethod of acquiring iJio Knowledge of thf form of the 
Piiramos vara and (.)f attaining I,lie Paramosv;. ra by loading 
a course of life which is consistent with that Knowledge, 
i.s known as tlie ' Jnana-yajna’. This Yajia is mental, 
and i- porforrnod witli the Jiolj) of the Rook)!!, and it is 
naturally considered more worthy than the Yajna of 
wealtli. This .Jhana included in the Jnana-yajna is of 
supreme importance in the Scitmcn of Role ise; and it is 
the lirni doctrine of tlm’Oita that (i) all Karri a i.s destroyed 
by means of this Juiina.; Unit, (ii) in, any case the 
Jhana of the Paranu>sva.ra must nltimutel.'t be obtained; 
and tint, (’iii) there is no Release except by tl e Acquisition 
of Jiuina.. NoverUvcloss, I have proved in detail in 
Cliapters X and XI of the Cita-Rahasya that the words 
“ all .Actions of all kinds a.ro ifitimatLdy mia'god in Jfiana” 
in this staii/.a arc not to he undorsitood as neaning lhat 
‘after a man has acquired Jhaii.i, he may givs up Karma’. 
The G ita preaches ti.i every body tliat (i) ail Actions must 
bo performed as a matter of duty for nn.lvJrsal welfare, 
though they may not 1)0 needed for one’s ovn self; that, 
(ii) as all tlie.se Actions are perloriiied with li ana, that is, 
with an wiuahle Rea.sun, the person, who perferms them, is 
not aflected by tho merit or .sin of that Action (see, stanaa 
37 later); and that (iii) as this Jhana-yajfia loads to Release, 
one mmst iierform the Yajna, hut with Jhana and with a 
de.siroloss frame of mind. J 

(34) Remember that, philosophcr-Jnanini. will, by your 
offering obeisance (to them—Trans,), and questioning and 
service, teach you that Jhana, (35) by having acquired which, 
O Pandava ! you will not again be overco nc by mental 




964 


GiTA-RAHASYA OR KARMA-YOGA 


3Tn %?T% I 

KUTgli^Hr fr^ •• •< 

^r^:^rST?rwrw^^^s^jf i 

rI'<iJT II II 

§§ ^ ff I 

cTr^cHT ?fnT^r%r* ^^^TTrRR l%^ l d II ^<: II 

confusion in this fashion, iind by means of which Knowledge, 
you will come to see everything created us located in your¬ 
self and ultimately in Ale. 

[ There is a roferenco here to the Knowledge of the iden¬ 
tity of the Atman wdth all created beings, that is, to seeing 
the entire creation embodied in oneself, and seeing oneself 
embodied in the entire creation, which has been dealt with 
later on (Gl. 6. '29). As the Atman (Self) and the Bhagavan 
(Blessed Lord) are fundamentally uniform, the entire 
creation i,s comprehended in the Atman, that i.s, ultimately, 
also naturally in the Bhagavan, or the Blessed Lord; and the 
three-fold distinction between the Atman (one’s Self), the 
rest of the creation, and the Blessed Tjord, naturally dis¬ 
appears. It is, therefore, .said in the Bhagavata-purana, in 
destiiibing the Bhagavad-bhakta (the devotee of the Blessed 
Lord) that “ that man i.s.the best Bhagavata or devotee of 
the Blessed Lord, who sees the entire creation in the Blo.ssorl 
Lord and in himself (Bhag, 11. 2. 45). See the further 
explanation of this important principle of the Gita in 
Chapter XU of the Gita-Rahasya (pp. 543 to 555); and also 
in Chapter XIII, from the point of view of Devotion 

(pp. 600-601). ] 

(36) Even il you are a sinner, greater than any other sinner, 
you will sail over the whole sin by (this) ship of Jnana. 

(37) Just as the kindled fire reduces to ashes (all) fuel, in the 
same way, O Arjuna ! (this) Jnana-formed Fire reduces to 
ashes (the prejudicial or unprcjudicial binding force of) all 
Action. 

[ The Blessed TjOrd has described the worth of Jnana. HE 
now explains bow this Jnana can be acquired-^-] 

(38) There is nothing indeed in this world so holy as 



GiTA, TRANSLATION & COMMENTARY, OHAP. IV 965 

ITPT ?TPT?:: I 

^ ^-grr TO n n 

3?ir8JT%T^vn5T3J I 

JTR 5T TO ST ^ ^^WrTR' II H 

§§ qTTOSJTOT^TTfnr fTTST^%^W?T*T i 

STTFR^fT ?T ^Tfrm T%^VTf?cT ■s^R^T^I H -il H 
Jnana. That Jfiana is automatically acquired in course of 
time by the person who has mastered tlte Yoga (that is, 
the Karma-Toga). 

[Tha word ‘Action’ in the :57th stamzi means ‘the 
binding force or effect of Karma or Actior ’ (Gi. 4. 19). 
Acquiring Knowledge by moans of desirdess Actions, 
which one has started by one’s Reason, is the principal 
means of acquiring Knowledge, or the moms accessible 
to Reason (Ituddld ); but, for those who cannot acquire Know¬ 
ledge in this way by their own Reason, tbe Blessed Lord 
now pros(jribos tiie other patJi, namely, the Path of Faith—] 

(39) Tliut person having Failli, wlio, luiving acquired control 
over the senses, pursues this Knowledge, (also) acquires it; 
and whcjii be has acquired Knowledge, he immediately after¬ 
wards experiences tlic highest peace. 

[In short, that Knowledge (.hiana ), and the tranquility 
{sdnii) which is acfinired by means of the R( ason {huddhi}, 
is also ac(iuired by Faith {sraddltn). Bu, ho who has 
neithtir Reason nor Faith.| 

(40) But (he) who has himself neither Know edge nor Faith, 
such a ..iouh’ter is utterly' destroyed. For tin doubter, there 
is neither this worUl, nor the next, nor any happiness 
whatsoever. 

[The Blessed Ijord lias shown two ways of ai.'quiring 
Knowledge, nanioly, (i) one’s own Reason and (ii) Faith. 

H B1 now explains the respoctivi'uses of the Jfiana-Yoga and 
the Karma-Yoga, and snmmariscs the vTole subject- 
matter- I 

(41) O Dhaiiiinjaya ! Actions cannot bind tlie dtma-jndnin 
(Self-Rcaliser—Trans.) who has castoff Kaima (that is, the 




966 


GiTA-EAHASYA OR KARMA-YOGA 


lr^5£| 


KTTT^ II 8^ II 


?i^ ?Sl?T^iTgificn^ srsiT^srTqf «fif;™iT- 

11 8 H 

bondage of Karma) by taking shelter in the (Karma-) Yoga, 
and whose doubts have been annulled by means of Jhana. 
(42) Therefore, cutting off with the sword of Knowledge, 
this doubt, which has arisen in your heart as a result of 
Ignorance, take shelter, in the (Karma-) Yoga, (and) 
O Bharata ! stand up (and fight). 

[ Just as in the Isavasyopanisad (Isa. 11; Gl. Ra. Cli. VI, 
p. 501), after sliortly showing the respective uses of vldya 
and avidija, a direction has been given to act without 
giving up either vidua or avkhjU, so in the Gita, in these 
two stanzas, after shortly showing the respective uses of 
Jnana and (Karma-) Yoga, the advice has been given 
to Arjuna to perform Action with the joint help of Jhana 
and Yoga. The respective mses of the.se two are that when 
a man performs Action by the Desireless Jnana-Yoga, 
the binding effect of Karma (Action) is destroyed, and 
it does not obstruct Release; and as a result of Jhana, all 
doubt or mental confusion is annihilated and one attains 
Release. Therefore, the ultimate and final advice to 
Arjuna is, that ho should not seek the protection of either 
Karma alone, or of Jhana alone, but should make use of 
both, and fight. It has been shown in the Gita-Rahasya 
(Ch. Ill, p. 80) that because Arjuna has to stand up and 
fight here by taking shelter or protection from Yoga, the 
word ‘ Yoga ’ must here be interpreted as meaning the 
Karma-Yoga. This fusion of Jhana and Yoga, is also 
again referred to later on in the Gita (Gi. 16. 1), in de¬ 
scribing the characteristics of ‘godly endowment’ {daivi 
sarttpaffi), by the words ‘‘ jridmi--yo(javyavasthiUh”. ] 

Thus ends the fourth chapter entitled the Jnana-Karma- 
SAMNYASA YoGA in the dialogue between Sri Krsna and 




GITA, TRANSLATION & COMMENTARY. CHAP. IV 967 


Arjiina ou the Yoga included in the Science of the Brahman 
(that is. on the Karma-Yoga), in the Upanisad sung (that 
is, told) by the Blessed Lord. 

[ It must he borne in mind that the word samajlmi ’ in 
the pliraso ' jHuiia-karnM-.'Sdmnunsa ' is not literal karmri- 
tyaiia (Abandonmimt of Actii.m), hut i.s .he Desireles.s 
' samujam’ or the ‘Dedication’ of all Action to the 
Pararnesvara; iind tho same evplanation hi s been given 
later on in the beginning of Clmpter XVIII. ] 




3T^ I 

§§ fjcor ^ I 

n:a 4K^ rr?% 3t% u \ w 

CHAPTER V. 

[In this chapter, has been given the clear answer of the 
Blessed Lord to the doubts likely to be raised by the 
followers of the Path of Renunciation to the doctrines laid 
down in Ohapter IV, after expressing those doubts through 
the mouth of Arjuna. If Jfiana is the ultimate resolution 
of all Action (4. 33); if all Action is destroyed by Knowledge 
(4. 37); and if the sacrifice into Knowledge is superior to the 
sacrifice of wealth (4. 43), then, why has the Blessed Lord, 
after saying in the second ohapter that “it is most 
meritorious for a Ksatriya to figirt the battle prescribed by 
his religion” (2. 31), summarised the fourth chapter by 
saying “ therefore, stand up to fight, taking shelter in the 
Karma-Yoga” (4. 42)? To this the reply of the Gita is 
that what is needed is the fusion of (i) Knowledge, which is 
necessary for Release, by removing all mental confusion 
and of (ii) Karma, which cannot be escaped from, and 
which though not necessary for Release, is yet necessary 
for Universal Welfare (4. 41). But, even to this an 
objection may be raised to the effect that, if both the 
Karma-Yoga and the Saiiikhya-Yoga are proper according 
to the Sastras, why should not a person adopt the Sarhkhya- 
Yoga and abandon Action, if that pleases one better? 
Needless to say, there must be made a clear decision as to 
which of th 0 .se two path.s is the better one; and as Arjuna 
was seized with the same doubt, he now raises the 
following question, in the same way as he had raised the 
(luestion in the beginning of the third chapter—J 

(1) Arjuna said :—O Krsna ! once you say that the Path 
of Renunciation is superior, and again that Karma-Yoga 
(that is, the path of continuing to perform Action) is 
superior; therefore, tell me definitely that one, of these 



GlTA, TRANSLATION & COMMENTARY, CHAP. V 969 


cHirtg IS ^ II 

two, which is rciilly sjxya, (thiit is, more pr:iiiseworthy). 
(2) Thr Blessed Lord s:ud :—Karmu-siimiiyiisa iiud Karma- 
Yoga, both tliese (pallis or Nisihas) are nih^'cyasakara (that 
is, producing Reloaso); but, (that is, though both may be of 
the same value from the point of view of Rchasc), the worth 
(that is, the cfhcacy) of Kanivi-Yoga, out cf these two, is 
greater than that of Kiirma-Samnyasa. 

iThi'! question and answer a.re both luuimbiguous and 
clear. The word ‘ .sh-c/yn ’ in the first stanza, means ‘ more 
praise-worthy’, or, bettor; and, to the question of Arjuna 
about tb() relative value of the two courses, the reply of the 
Blessed Lord is, '' vi.st.yjnle". thiit is “the 

.Karma-Yoga is the bidtiu' (path)’’. NeverthdesB, as this 
dot-trine is not ctmsistent with tlio S-amktiy i theory, that 
a man must ;il):iudon or make a litcrid Saihnyasa 
•(.Reimrciai iun) of Atdion, after he has acquired Knowledge, 
some coium..mtators, have taken hold )f the word 
‘ DiAiyjute ’, and contented themst'lvos with saying that that 
was a more hollow priiise of the Karma-'i'oga by way of 
ail urthumda, after they laid ineffoctually struggled to 
twist this plain-meaninged question and mswer; and 
saying, that the true intention of the Bless id Lord was 
not to praise the K-arma-Yoga! If it was the opinion of 
the Blessed Lord that there should bo no Act on after the 
acquisildon of Knowledge, could lie not have replied 
to Arjuna that: “ out of those two paths, the Path of 
Renunciation is the better one”? But, ai instead of 
doing so, the Blessed Ijord, al'ter saying in the fir.st 
pari, of the second stiinza that, “ the paths of perform¬ 
ing Action and abandoning Action, are 1 oth equally 
productive of Release ”, uses the word ‘ tii ’, that 
is, ‘but’, in the second part of the stanza and 
unambiguously lays down the doctrine that, ‘ Uujoh ’, that 
is, ‘ouli of these two paths’, “the path of Performing 




970 


GiTA-RAHASYA OR KARMA-YOGA 


Action is more praise-worthy (sreija) than the path 
Abandoning Action ”, it is clearly proved that He was of 
the opinion that in the mldhamisthu (state of Perfection), 
the Jnanin must still go on performing desirelessly, till 
death, as a duty, and for Universal Welfare, the same 
selfless Action, which he was performing in the 
‘ mdhanavasthd ’ (the state of Perfecting) for acquiring 
Knowledge. The same meaning has Ifoen made clear in 
Gita 3. 7, and the term ‘ visisyate ’ has also been used there ; 
and in the next stanza, that is, in Gita 3. 8, the words 
“ Action is superior to Inaction ” wore again clearly 
repeated. Now, it is true, that there are descriptions in 
several places in the Upanisads (Br. 4. 4. 22) to the effect 
that Jhanins (those, who have acciuired Knowledge) roam 
about begging, without liaving any ‘ loJcaisaria ’ (desire for 
society), or ‘ putraisnnd ’ (desire for children). But, it has. 
not been stated in the Upanisads that this is the only path, 
which call be followed after a man has acquired 
Knowledge, and that there is no other path. Therefore, it 
is not proper to attempt to harmonise the Gita with the 
above-mentioned sentences from tlie Upanisads. The Gita 
does not say that this Path of Renunciation described in 
the Upanisads is not productive of Release. But, the firm 
doctrine of the Gita i.s, that though the Karma-Yoga and 
Renunciation are both equally productive of Release, 
that is to say, though, from the point of view of Release, the 
effect of both is the same, yet, (ionsidering the course of 
life in the world, the better or more praise-worthy path is 
to continue to desirelessly perform Action even after one 
has acquired Knowledge. This interpretation of mine is 
not the one which has been accepted by the majority of 
commentators ; and, they have treated the Karma-Yoga as 
secondary ; but, in my opinion, these interpretations of the 
commentators are not plain and straight-forward ; and, as 
I have given a detailed staternont of my reasons for my 
interpretation in Ghapter XI of the Gita-Rahasya (pp. 420 
to 431), I shall not take up space hero by saying more 
about it. After the Blessed fjord had thus given His clear 
decision as to which of the two paths is more praise-worthy, 




GiTA, TRANSLATION & COMMENTARY, CHAP. V 971 


§§ ^ JT f % 5T i 

ft Ji^RTir ^ ^TVTTfsig^ II ^ u 

^rnjwifr srafRJT sr qfa^: i 

n:^Tr:^rf^!afT; n y ii 

^(i: fT?it%ftT I 

^ ^JT ^ ^r: ^ n u 

^5=qra^ RT^'r ?:?qiTp:3iTqrJTcr. i 
qiqg^r grq^gr ^ T%^oTrT%»T=5iji% ii ^ ii 

HE now proves that though these two paths m ight appear 
different to people in ordinary life, yet, they are not 
essentially different—] 

(3) He, w’ho does not hate (anything) and ^vho does not 
desire (anything), that man should be loolced upon as 
a ‘permanent ascetic’ (though he might l)e performing 
Action); because, O Mighty-armed Arjuna! he, who has 
been liberated from the pairs of Opposites (such as, pain and 
happiness, etc.), is, without effort, liberated from (all) the 
bonds (of Karma). (4) Pools say tliat Sarhkhya (Karma- 
Satimyasa) ami Yoga (Karma-Yoga) are different ; the learned 
do not say so ; if any one path is properly followed, the 
result of both is achieved. (5) Tliat (Released -1 state, which 
is reached b)' the (followers of the) Sarhkhya (Path), there 
too do the Yogins (that is, the Karma-Yogins) go ; he who 
sees that the (two paths of) Sarhkhya and Yoga are (in this 
way) the same, may be said to have seen (the true principle). 
(6) Even Renunciation, O Mahabalio 1 is difficult to achieve, 
in the absence of Yoga, (that is, in the absence of Karma). 
That sage who has become steeped in the Karma-Yoga, is 
not long in attaining tlie Brahman. 

jA clear and exhau.stive explanation has been given later 
on from the seventh to the seventeenth chaptei- of the Gita 
as to how the same Release can he obtained by Kami a-Yog a, 
that is, by not abandoning Action, as can he obtained 
by the Samkhya-Yoga. All that is intended to be said for 




«73 


GiTA-RAHASYA OR KARMA-YOGA 


^rmsr^T f^^TcJTT f^cTRJTr I 

^^l^fJT^irTTrJTT ^ II ^ II 

%5T irsiifT crtcrf%5^ i 


II II 


:i^crT?5R|3T?gi:?gv7JTm'%n‘^q^ig i 
ff???irarn???rr^5 ?r^ ii % ii 


the present is, that as there is no difference between the two 
paths from the point of view of Release, it is not proper to 
magnify the difference between these two paths, which 
have been in vogue from times immemorial, and to quarrel 
about it; and the same logical argument has boon repeated 
over and over again later on (Bee GT, 6. 3 and 18.1, 3; 
and my commentary on it). The stanza “ ('/cam sdmkhyam 
ca yvga'tn ca ytih pasyali m jxisuuH ” has appeared twice 
with slight alterations in the Mababharata (San, 305. 
19; 316. 4). Though Jhana is considered of supreme 
importance in tho Path of Renunciation, that Jfiana is 
not perfected unless Action is perfonued; and tliough in 
the Karma-Yoga, Action is porformed, yet, one does not 
•fail to reach the Brahman by it, since such Action is 
porformed with tho help of Jnana (Gf. 6. 3); then, where 
is the sonse of raising a cry that these two patlis are 
different V If it is ^5aid t.hat the performance of Action 
has in itself a binding-effect, the Blessed Tu.)rd says that 
such objocition does not apply to Action performed 
de,sireles!.dy- J 

(7) (He,) Who has become steeped in the (Karma-) 
Yoga, whose conscience is pure, who has conquered his Mind 
and his senses, and whose Atman has become the Atman of 
all created beings, remains untouched (by the merit or sin of 
Action), though he performs (all Actions). (8) (He,) Who 
has understood tlie basic principles, and is steeped in 
the Yoga, should realise that ; “ I do not do anything (and) 
in seeing, hearing, touching, smelling, eating, walking, sleep¬ 
ing, breathing, (9) speaking, excreting, taking, opening the 
eye-lids, and closing them, (should act) believing that (merely) 




GiTA, TRANSLATION & COMMENTARY, C HAP. V 973 

^1% 5En I 

5T ^ qrqjT q^qsrw^ny^TOT n ?=> ti 

*T?r^ I 

^TTTHT*. rJr^relTrlT^:^^ II l\ II 

the senses are acting with reference to their respective 
objects. 

[The hist \,wo staiiKiis form one sei\teiice ; and the various 
Actions described in them arc t1ie Actions of the different 
organs of the Imdy; for instance, I'xcrotion is the action of 
the amis; taking, tiiat of the hand ; moving the eye-lids, 
that of the Vital Airs ; seeing, that of the eyes, etc. “ I do 
not do anything” does not mean that one should allow 
one’s senses to do what they want. What is mt ant is that 
when once one has lost the egotistical sense of ‘ I ’, the 
iinpronpited senses are not capaldc of ])erforinii g any evil 
action of tiieir own accord, and remain under the control of 
the Atman. In short, even if a. ma,n becomes a Tfianin, the 
organs of breathing etc., will continue to perform their 
respective functions. .Nay, even remaining ilive for a 
fraction of a second is in itself an .Action; ’hen, where 
remains the difference that the .I’fianin, who 'ollows the 
Path of Renunciation, gives up Action, and that the 
Karnia-Yogin performs Action? Roth are hounc to perform 
Action. But, as the same acts cease to have a binding 
effect when the A.ttachmcnt l)ascd on Egoi.sn has been 
discarded, giving up the Attachmeut remains the only 
basic principle; and tlie Blessed Lord now furthia- amplifies 
the same idea—] 

(10) He, who pcriorms Actions, dedicating ihem to the 
Brahman and unattacliedly, to Inni sin does not adhere 
(touch), just as water does not adlici c to the leaves of a lotus- 
plant. (11) therefore, the Kaima-Yogin performs all 
Actions (without entertaining the egotistical noti m that he is 
performing them) for Self-purification, unattacliedly, by the 
body (merely), or by the Mind (merely), or by the Reason 
(merely), and even by the senses merely 




974 


GlTA-RAHASYA OS KARMA-YOGA 


3T5tR: ^rt#T f^q cl H « 

5T^t\ ^ %i|t %sr grTT^R It U II 

[The words ‘ Body ’, ‘ Mind ’, and ‘ Reason ’ in this stanza 
have been used with reference to the bodily {kayika), vocal 
(vacika) and mental (munasika) divisions of Action. 
Although the adjective ‘ kevalaih' (merely) is placed, in the 
original, behind the word ‘ indriyaih ’ alone, it also applies to 
the words ‘ Body ’, ‘ Mind and ‘ Reason ’ (Gl. 4. 21). There¬ 
fore, in my translation, I have placed it behind all the 
other words, as behind the word ‘ Body The meaning is, 
as explained in the 8th stanza above, that if a man 
performs any act, which is merely bodily {kayika), or merely 
vocal {vacika), or merely mental (mamxsika), giving up 
egoism, and without any Attachment to the Fruit of 
Action, he does not incur any sin (See Gita 3. 27 ; 13. 29 ; 
and 18, 16). When there is no egoism, all the Action which 
is performed is merely the Action of the organs ; and as the 
Mind and the other organs are only the evolutes {vikara) 
of Prakrti, the doer docs not incur the binding effect of 
such Action. The Blessed Lord now proves this doctrine 
according to the Sastras—] 

(12) He, who has become 'yuMa' (that is, Yog[x~yukld), (that 
is, steeped in Yoga—Trans.) gives up the Fruit of Action and 
attains the final complete tranquility ; and the ‘ayukta' (that 
is, one who is not 'iog&-yukta), becoming attached to the 
Fruit, as a result of kdma (that is, of desire ), becomes bound 
(by the merit or the sin). (13) The embodied (man), who 
has controlled the senses, renouncing all Actions mentally 
(not literally), inhabits happily this (body-) city with its nine, 
entrances, doing nothing and causing nothing to be done. 

[That is to say, he realises that the Atman is a non-doer, 
and that the entire activity is of Prakrti; and therefore, 
he lives quietly, or in a state of indifference (See Gita 13. 20 
and 18, 59), The two eyes, the two ears, the two nostrils, 






GiTA, TRANSLATION &COMME^ITARY,()HAP. V 975 

§§ 5T 5?r qg; i 

?r ii ?8 \\ 

5TT^=^ ^ %r i 

fTT^f ^ g?lf^ ^ISrT^; II II 

thts mouth, the opening for urinating, and the anus are 
looked upon as nine openings or doors of tie body. The 
Blessed Liu'd now gives a metaphysical explanation of the 
fact that the Karrna-Yogin rem;i,ins ‘ yukta ’, though he is 
perform iiig Actions ] 

(14) Tlie prabhu (that is, tlic Atman or the Pararaesvara) 
does not create either the capacity of men for Action, nor 
their Actions, nor the attendant Fruit of Action (accruing to the 
doers). Inherent nature, (that is, Prakrti) performs (every¬ 
thing). (15) The v/Mm (that is, the all-pervading Atman or 
Paramesvani) docs not aequire eitlier the merit or the sin of 
anybody. As Knowledge is covered by the covering of 
Ignorance (that is to say, as a result of Ma^’a), all created 
beings are confused. 

[ The principle involved in both these stanzas is 
originally from the Saihkhya philosophy (See Gita-Rahasya 
pp. 2 A.' 2 to 224). But, as according to Vodantists, the 
Atman = the Paramesvara, they extend the principle that 
‘the Atman is a non-doer’ to the Paramesvara. The 
Saihkhyas look uiion Prakrti (Matter) and I urusa (Spirit) 
as the two fundamental principles, and look upon the 
PrakiH as the active agent and the Atman as inactive; 
bnt the Vedantists go even beyond that, and say that the 
root of both Purnsa and Prakrti is a quality-less Parame¬ 
svara, who is a Non-Doer (Mcfa.svoj) like the hitman of the 
Saihkhyas; and that the entire activity is of Maya or of 
Prakrti (Gl. Ra. p. 369). The Blessed Lord now explains 
that the ordinary man does not understanc these things 
on account of Ignorance; and that, as the Karma-Yogin 
understands the difference between the Doer and the 
Non-P'oer, he remains unscathed, notwithstanding that 
he performs Action — ] 



976 


GITA-EA.HASYA OR KARMA-YOGA 


§§ f[T%5T 5 ^%nTTf?R5 I 

rTrq?T5[ n « 

I 

ffrfTMirrgi^JnTT: ii n 

§§ f^T^RTTOq^ ^OT JTM ^^cTTST I 

^ qfo^: II %C II 

^ ^jyf ir; i 

^ ^ cr^f^grfoT % R«rcTT5 II \% H 

(16) But those, whose own such Ignorance has beett 
destroyed by Knowledge, their Knowledge throws light on 
the Highest Principle like the Sun; (17) and those, whose 
Reason has become engrossed in this Highest Principle,, 
whose Internal Sense (antahkarana) has found happiness in 
It, and become fixed on It, and devoted to It, their sin is 
entirely washed away by Knowledge ; and they do not come 
to birth again. 

[The Blessed Lord now gives a further description of the 
state of the ‘brahma-bhUta’ (merged in the Brahman) or 
'jivanmukla (Released in this life) state of these Karma- 
Yogins (not Saihnyasins), whose Ignorance has thus been 
destroyed— ] 

(18) Those who have become Pandits (that is, Jilanins), 
their vision is the same towards the Brahmin endowed with 
Knowledge and humility, as towards a cow, or an elephant, 
or a dog, ora dandala. (19) Those, whose Mind, has thus 
become steady in a state of Equability, conquer the mortal 
world, wherever they are (that is, without having to wait for 
death); because, the Brahman is faultless and equable 
therefore, these persons (with an equable Reason) are 
(always) merged in the Brahman (that is, they have become 
brahma-bhuta already in this world). 

[ This is a repetition of the statement in the Upanisads 
that he, who has Realised that the Atman-formed 
Paramesvara is a Non-Doer, and that the entire activity is 







GITA, TR ANSLATION & COMMENTARY, CHAP, V 977 


T%4rr. II tl 

^ HgT^nr^wiffTT n i 

of Prakrti, has ‘become steeped in the Brahman’ ( brahma- 
sanistha}; and he attains Release, cf. “ bruhma-samstho 
’mrtatiarn ati. ” (Chan. 3. 33. 1). Yet, it is clear from stanzas 
1 to 12 above that, according to the Gita, a man does not 
escape Action even though he has reached this state. This 
sentence from the Ohandogyopanisad has been interpreted 
by Samkaracarya so as to siipinutthe Path of B enunciation; 
but, if one considers the anterior and posterior context in 
the original Upanisad, it will be seen tliat the greater 
possibility is of this statement having been made with 
referencie to the person who performs Actions appropriate to- 
the three stages <.if life, oven after having become brahma- 
mvistha ; and this same imjxmt has been very clearly set 
out at the end of the Upanisad (See Chan, S. 15. 1). As 
this stace is reached during life after a man las attained 
the Knowledge of the Brahma ( bralnna-jhami ), it is called 
the ‘Jiran-inukfavastha’ (state of being Released in life), 
(See Go Ra. Ch, X, pp. 413 to 415). This is the highest 
pinnacle of Metaphysics, and the Yoga devices, such as, 
the control of the mental tendencies ( dtta-vrtti-airodhu) etc., 
by which this state can bo reached, are explained at length 
in the next chapter. This chapter contains only a further 
description of this state. |- 

(20) One should not become glad because one has got the 
priya (that is, the desired thing); nor should one become: 
dejected, if something undesirable happens. One whose mind 
has (thus) become steady, and who does not suffer from 
mental confusion, sucli a Knower of the Brahman is (said to 
have become) ‘steady in the Brahman’. (21 1 He (alone), 
whose mind is. not attached to the contacts (with the senses) 
of extern:)] objects, (that is, to the enjoyment of objects of 
sense), obtains (whatever) the liappiuess, which pertains to 
the Atman ; and such a person, who has become yuhla as a 



978 


GITA-RAH4SYA OR KARMA-YOGA 


r~-. _♦_r' ^ 

^ MfiR *3;^ n I 

arra^rraTcf. ^ ^ TJm 5^1: w u 
^^rrfftcT ^r: SrmifRTW^aiTc^ I 

^ ^ gw. ^ jtt: 11 11 

§§ ?fts;^g?^TS 5 cfrTTm^?T?IT;rT^??Tf^^ I 
^ ^[ifr ^gn'MrtiT sj§j>j^ST^nr^% 11 ^8 n 

fty^T'l’TT ?r?nr?TT 5 r; w- n 11 

result of union with tlie Brahmiin, enjoys inexhaustible 
happiness. (22) As enjoyments, born of contacts (with ex¬ 
ternal objects), have a beginning and an end, they become 
the cause of unhappiness. The wise man, O Kaunteya ! 
does not find happiness in them. (23) He, who has become 
capable (by control of the senses) of bearing in this world, 
before leaving this body (that is, till death), such pain as is 
born of Desire and Auger, is the liberated and the (truly) 
happy man. 

[ This is an expansion and elucidation of the advice of the 
Blessed Lord to Arjuna in the second chapter that he must 
bear pain as well as happiness (Gl. 2. 14). In Gita 2. 14, 
the adjective “ agamdpuyinah ” (i. e., ‘ coming and going ’) 
has been applied to pain and happiness ; whereas, here in 
the 22nd stanza, the word used is “ adi/anfavantah” (i. e., 

‘ with a beginning and an end ’); and here the word 
‘ buliya ’ has been used instead of the word ‘ mdtrd ’ used 
there ; this stanza (i. e., stanza 21) also defines who is to be 
called ‘ yukta Bearing pain and happiness equably, and 
not avoiding them, is the true characteristic of yukta-noBB. 
See my commentary on Gita 2. 61. ] 

(24) He who has thus become internally (that is, in his 
■conscience) happy (without laying any store by external happi¬ 
ness or unhappiness), who has found tranquility within 
himself, and similarly, who has acquired (this) internal light, 
such a (Karma-) Yogin has become Brahman-formed, and 
attains the brahma-nirvdna Release (that is, the Release of 
being merged in and unified with the Brahman). (25) Those 



GITA, TRANSLATION & COMMENTARY, CHAR V 979 


^WroT ii » 

^q^5|R«rT wf^i?im^cn7aT i 
srrtnrqrs^ f>?^ 5rr^jr?rR^n^»n 

fjqd-e^raq^iifT q: W 'Q:^ « 

Esis, wh(5 have lost the sense of duality (that is, who have 
realised lac principle tliat there is only one I’aramesvara in 
all places), whose sins liavc been dissolved, and who have 
becotiie emgrossed in achieving the welfare of the entire 
creation by means of Self-control, attain Release in the shape 
of brahma-nirvana. (26) Thejv«fi//s who are free from Desire 
and Anger, who are self-controlled and possessed of Self- 
Knowledge, attain the brahma-nirvana Release ‘abhitab! (that 
is, as if it is placed all round them, or in front of them ; that 
is to say, wherever they are). (27) That Release-desiring 
Muni, who keeps outside the (painful or pleasing) contacts 
(of the organs) with externrd objects ; who, having fixed his 
gaze between the two eye-brows, and equahsed the prana 
and the (j/idna breaths passing through his no krils, (28) has 
obtained control over the senses, the Mind, and the Reason ; 
and, who has become free from Desire, Fear, and Anger, may 
be said to be ‘ perpetually Released 

[ It will he seen from Chapter IX (pp. 320 and 344) and 
Chapter X (p. 414) of the Gita-Rahasya, that this 
description is of the Jivan-imditavastha (state of being 
Released, while alive). But, the asserii(>n of some 
commentators that it is a description of a man who follows 
the Path of Renunciation is not correct in my opinion. 
Wliethor in the Path of Renunciation, or in the Path of 
Karma-Yoga, ‘ traniiuility’ (santi) is one and t'Jie same; and 
to tihat extent, this description might apply to the Path of 
Renunciation; this cannot be denied; but, as in the 
beginning of this chapter, the Karma-Ycga has been 
mentioned as the superior path, and again m the 25th 
stanza, it is stated that Jnanins (sagos) are engrossed in 



980 


GiTA-RAHASYA OE EARMA-YOGA 


§§ ifTTRTT 

iglt fTTr^rr nr ii ii 

50*^1^ si^r^i<4t <ri<iAii^ 

«hRti«''mt1<4nTr »TW 
q^Titsvq'ni: 11 II 


achieving Universal Welfare, it is clear that this description 
is of the Earma-Yogin Jivan-inukta (Released-in-life) and 
not of the Sarhnyasin (See Gi. Ra. p. 520). To proceed; 
since, Realising the Paramesvara, Who pervades the entire 
creation, is the highest ideal even according to the Path of 
Action {karim-mar()a),il\e Blessed Lord finally says that—■] 

(29) Realising, (in this way), Mci Who am the Recipient. 
of (all) sacrifice and 'austerities, the Overlord of all spheres 
(such as heaven, etc.) and the Friend of the entire creation,. 
he attains tranquility. 

Thus ends the fifth chapter entitled Samnyas.a.-Yoga in- 
the dialogue between Sri Krsna and Arjuna on the Yoga in¬ 
cluded in the science of the Brahman (that is, on the Karma- 
Yoga) in the Upanisad sung (that is, told) by the Blessed: 
Lord. 



CHAPTER YI. 

[Thus far it has been proved that, (i) though nothing 
except Knowledge is necessary for attaining lielease, the 
Jnanin jiiust continue to perforin Actions even after the 
Acquisition of Jnana, for universiil welfare; hut that, (ii)he 
must perform these with an Equable Reason, and having 
given uj) the Desire for Fruit, so that they m ly not have 
any binding effect; that, (iii) this is known as ihe Karma- 
Yoga ; and that, (iv) this path of life is more jiiaise-worthy 
than the patli of Renunciation of Action {karmn-mmiijasa). 
Nevertheless, the justification of Karma-Yoga is not 
thereby finished. Already in Chapter III, in describing 
Desire, Anger, etc., the Blessed Lord has explained to 
Arjuna, that these enemies make their home in the organs, 
the Mind, and the Reason of humans, and destroy their 
Spiritual Knowledge (Jnavn) as also their Specified 
Knowledge {vijilaiui), (3. 40); and advised him that 
he should, therefore, first coiuiuer these enem es by con¬ 
trolling liis senses. In order that this advice should be 
complete, it was necessary to explain (1) how to acquire 
control over the senses, and (3) what is Kpiritual Knowledge 
and what Specified Knowledge; but, in the meantime, the 
Blessed Ijord, in reply to the question of Arjuna, 

(i) explained to him which path of life, out of t le paths of 
Karma-yoga and Karma-Sainnyasa, was the hotter one; 

(ii) harmonised the.so two paths of life as far as possible ; and 

(iii) sliowedhow the Braluna-nirvmia Release could be obtain¬ 
ed without giving up Action, and by performing Action 
with an unattached Reason. The Ble.ssed Jjcrd now starts 
in this chapter a description of the means by which it is 
possible to acquire this unattached (tdhmiiga), or Brahman- 
devoted {hrahi/ia-nisthn) state, which is neoossar/ even in 
Karma-Yoga. Nevertheless, in order that it should be 
clear that this explanation has not been given for 
preaching the PMaiijala-Yoga independently, the Blessed 
Lord, to start with, repeats hero what has been expounded 



•983 


GiTA-RAHASYA OR KARMA-YOGA 


§§ 3T5m%tT; ^ ^ W’ I 

^ M??ir€r =5r ^ sr «\ <i 

^ srif^fjT ?T qro^ i 

!T ?n»fr ? « 

in the previous chapters, namely that, the true Saihnyasin 
is the person, who performs Actions, having given up the 
Hope for Fruit of Action, and not the one, who abandons 
Action (5. 3)—j 

The Blessed Lord said :— 

(1) That man is to be called a Sarhnyasin and a Karma- 
Yogin, who performs (his Sastra-enjoinedj duties, without 
taking shelter in the Fruit of Action (that is, not having in 
his Mind a ‘ home ’ in the shape of Hope of Fruit). The 
niragnt (that is, one who has given up Fire-ritual, such as, 
agnihotra etc.), or the akriya (that is, one who sits abso¬ 
lutely quiet, without performing any Action whatsoever), 
such a man is not (the true Saihnyasin, or the true Yogin). 
(2) O Pandava, understand that what is known as Sarhnyasa 
is (Karma-) Yoga, because no one can become a (Karma-) 
Yogin unless he makes a Sarirnyasa (i. e.. Renunciation— 
Trans.) of the samkalpa (that is, of the Hope of Fruit in 
the shape of a Desireful Reason). 

[ This is only a repetition of the statements made in the 
previous chapters, such as, “ ekam samkhtjam ca yogam ca " 

(5, 5); or, “ there is no Sarhnyasa except by Yoga ” (5. 6); 
or, “ jneyah sa nitya-samnyaHi'' (5. 3); and later on, where 
the whole subject-matter has been summarised in Chapter 
XVIII, the very same import is again repeated. In the 
state of a house-holder, one has to maintain an agnihotra 
(a perpetual sacrificial fire), and perform Yajfias, Yagas 
etc. But, as it was not necessary for a person, who had 
become an ascetic, to thus maintain a perpetual fire, it is stated 
in the Manu-Smrti, that he should become niragni (i. e., free 
from Fire-ritual), and live in the forest, and maintain 
himself by begging, and not take part in worldly affairs 



GiTA, TRANSLATION & COMMENTARY, Of CAP. VI 983' 


§§ ^ «KKory-<;«i^ I 

rT^^r w- ^Koi5^?r^ u ^ n 

( Manu. <i. 25 etc.). This dictum of Maim has been referred 
to in the first stanza above, and with reference to it, the 
Blessed Ijord says that, “ becoming ‘ nirafini ’ or 'niskriya is 
not a feature of true Saihnyasa ”, True Samnyasa 
consists in giving up a Desiroful Reason, or the Hope of 
Fruit. Samnyasa consists in the frame of the Mind, and 
not in the external act of giving up the mainten.ince of the 
sacrificial fire, or ritual. Therefore, that man alone, who 
gives up the Hope of Fruit, or the samkalpa and thus 
performs his duties, can be called the true Samnyasin. 
This doctrine of the Gita is different from the doctrine of 
the Smrli-writers; and I have to refer the reader to 
Chapter XI of the G ita-Rahasya (pp. 4H0-496), wiiere I have 
clearly shown how the Gita harmonises it with the doctrine 
of the Srartis. Having in this way expla ned what 
true Samnyasa is, the Blessed Lord now explains the 
difference between the Actions to be perforimd in the 
mdhanavasthd, that is, in the state before Knowledge has 
been acquired, and those to be performed in the siddhavastha 
that is, after the Acquisition of Knowledge, giving up the 
Hope of Fruit— ] 

(3) To the Muni who desires to become (Karma-) 
yogdrddha (that is, enthroned on the Karma-Voija—Trans.), 
Karma is said to be the kdrana, (that is the means); and 
when that same man has become yugdrTidha (that is, has 
become a complete Yogin), the sama (that is serenity— 
Trans.) is said to become later on tlic kdrapa (for the 
Karma). 

[Commentators have utterly misinterpreted the meaning 
of this stanza. The word ‘ yoya' used in the fi rst part of 
the stanza means Karma-Yoga ; and it is accepted by every¬ 
body that, for acquiring that Yoga, Karma is tue kdrana, 
or the means; but commentators liavo interpreted the 
words, “ after having become ^ yogdrudha', sama becomes 
the kdrana for him ”, as supporting the Path of Renuncia¬ 
tion. What they say is ; ‘ mma ’ means ‘ upusama ’ (that 




984 


GiTA-RAHASYA OR KARMA-YOGA 


is, ‘ cessation ’—^Trans.) of Karma; and lie who has acquired 
Yoga must, therefore, give up Karma ! Because, according 
to them, the Karma-Yoga is a part (anga), that is, a 
preliminary accomplishment, of Samnyasa. But, this 
interpretation is only a doctrine-supporting interpretation, 
and not the correct interpretation. For, (1) if the Blessed 
Lord has stated already in the first stanza of this chapter, 
that that man alone is a true Yogin, or yogarudha, who 
“ performs his duty ” without taking shelter in the Fruit 
of Action, and that the person who does not perform 
Action (who is an akriya) is not a true Yogin, it would be 
totally illogical to imagine, that the Blessed Lord could 
have in the third stanza advised the Yogin, or the yoyd- 
rudha, to make the sama of Karma, that is, to give up Karma. 
Although it may bo the opinion of the Saihnyasa school, 
that the yogdrUdha should not perform Action, after having 
attained tranquility, yet, that opinion is not acceptable to 
the Gita ; and there is clear advice in several places in the 
Gita to the effect that the Karma-Yogin should, even in the 
State of Perfection (mliihdmsfhu) continue to perform all 
Actions, desirelessly, and merely as duties, and so long as 
he is alive, in the same manner as the Blessed Lord. (Of. 
GI. 2. 71: 3. 7 and 19 ; 4. 19-21; 5. 7-12 ; 12. 12; 18. 56 
and 57 ; and Gl. Ra. Ch, XI and XII). (2) The second 
reason is ; How is it possible to interprete ‘ sama ' as mean¬ 
ing the ‘ sarna ’ of Karma ? The word ‘ sama ’ appears three 
or four times in the Bhagavadgita ( Gi. 10.4 ; 18.42 ); and in 
those places, as also in common parlance, it means ‘peace 
of Mind’. Then, why should it be interpreted to mean the 
‘ peace or the ending of Karma ’ V In order to get over this 
difficulty, commentators have, in the Paisacya-bhasya on 
the Gita, treated •‘i’a.sv/a’ as being the sixth (possessive) 
case of the neuter gender, and read the line as: 

‘ tasyaira karmunah samah (that is, ‘ the sama, which is 
tasya, namely, of the Karma, referred to in the first half of 
the stanza ), instead of referring the demonstrative pronoun 
‘ tasyaiva ’ in the phrase ‘ yogarudluimja iasyaiva ’ to the word 
‘ yoydrudhasya ’ ! But, this syntax of the sentence is also 
not plain; because, undoubtedly, the second part of the 



GITA, TRANSLATION & COMMENTARY, CHAP. VI 985 


stanza lias lieen started in order to show the state reached 
al'torwards, that is, after ho has completed his ’raining, by 
the man studying the Yoga, who has been described in the 
first part of the stanza; therefore, the word ‘ hisy tiva ’ cannot 
be inter[»rott^d as meaning ‘ k<irmanah mhi ’; and oven if that 
interpretiation is taken, then, that word should be joined to 
the words ‘ karanim m-yah ’, instead of to the ward ‘ kima 
Then, the syntax of the sentence will run is follows, 
namely, ‘ S(imah yof/arudJuinyti lasyaiva kurman ih knranani 
which means, “the‘,sV//rta’now becomes the kdrana 
for the K arma of the yyop(7/-a(///,a(3) Tlie third reason for 
rejecting the interpretation of the com me nti tors is as 
follows: according to the bath of Saihnyat-a, nothing 
remains to lie done for the //oi/nrwd/w. and all his Karma 
ends in ‘ iaiua and if this is true, tlio word 'kdrana' in the 
sentence, “ che ' sanui' becomes tho 'kdrant' for the 
yoyurudhu", beenmos totally meaningless. Tho word 
‘/d/7v/(/n ’ is alway.s a relative (.sv7;/ic/,:.sn ) term. As soon as 
you say 'kdrana' (niean.s), there must be .soiae ' kdrya' 
(effect) of it. But, according to the Saumya.sa doctrine, 
there is no more any kurya left for the yoydruclha. 
If 'sama' is taken as the ‘kdrana’, or the means for 
Release, even that interpretation is not proper. Well; if 
it is said that ‘ Aaina ’ is the ‘ kdrana ’, that is, rhe means, 
for the Accpiisitiou of Knowledge, then, tlvi; being a 
description of tho yayurndlin, that is, of one, who has 
already reached the state of comjdete perfection, he has 
already aegnired Knowledge by means :)1 Karma. 
Then, of what is this ‘&ama', tho ‘karam Y The commenta¬ 
tors of the Hamnyasa school cannot give any sati,sfactory 
solution of this question. But, if one considers t ie matter, 
disregarding the interpretation of the conimeutators, then, 
in intierproting tho second part of the stanza, tho word 
‘karnui in the first part of the stanza comes bofor : the mind 
by reason of its proximity; and thou, ono gets the 
interi)reta.tion that; as the yut/Uru(Jka cannot e.scape Action 
for Universal Welfare {lokasaihyndni), though Jio has no 
self-interest loft (Gl. 3. 17--1!)), ‘sama' now bi'comes the 
‘kdrana' or the means, for him to perform tliat Action, 




986 


GITA-RAHASYA OR KARMA-YOGA 


The same interpretation is arrived at, if one considers the 
statement in the previous chapter that, “yuktah karma- 
phalar'n tyaktva santim apnoti nainthikirn'' (Gl. 5. 13), that is, 
“the Yogin attains complete tranquility by abandoning the 
Fruit of Action”; because, in that stanza, ‘tranquility’ is 
related not to the ‘Abandonment of Action’, but to the 
‘Abandonment of the Hope of Fruit’; and it has been 
clearly stated in that place, that the karma-sa/hnyasa, 
which the Yogin has to perform, has to be performed 
'manam', that is, by the Mind (Gi. 5. 1.3); and that, by the 
Body, that is, by the organs of Action, such a Yogin must 
perform all the various Actions. In my opinion, the 
present stanza is an example of what is known in the 
aiawA;ara-su.sfra(scienceof Figures of Speech) as the ‘anyoriyU- 
lamkara', as it embodies some strangeness of meaning, or 
sweetness of sentiment as is produced by that alamkma ; for, 
after stating, in the first part of the stanza, when Karma 
becomes the ‘Icaruya’ of 'sama\ the latter part of the stanza 
states conversely, when ‘samu' becomes the 'karam of the 
Karma. The Blessed I^ord says that in the beginning, that 
is, in the preparatory stage (sadhanavaslha), Action (Karma) 
becomes the means {karmjui) of tranquility (mma), that is, 
of Yoga-siddhi; that is to say, when a person goes on 
performing, as far as possible, all Actions with a Desireless 
Mind, his Mind becomes peaceful, and he thereby 
ultimately attains complete perfection of Yoga {yoga- 
siddhi). But, when the Yogin has become yogarudha 
(steeped in Yoga ), that is to say, when he has 
reached the state of perfection, ( siddhavastha ), this 
relation of cause and effect between Karma and 
‘ sarna ’ is reversed; and instead of Karma being the means 
of obtaining ‘s«»w’, or its ‘kdrana’, the ‘ sama' itself 
becomes the means for the Karma; that is to say, the 
yogarudha, thereafter performs all his Actions merely as 
duties, and without entertaining any Hope of Fruit, and' 
with a peaceful Mind. In short, this stanza does not mean 
that a man becomes free from Karma in the state of 
Perfection; and all that the Gita says is that, the 
relation of cause and effect between Karma and 'sama' 



QlTA, TRANSLATION & COMMENTARY, CiHAP. VI 987 


ii a w 

in the preparatory ^tage {aadlinniivantha) becoiaes changed 
or inverted in the State ol Perfection (.tiddhiivafttha), (Gi, 
Ra. Ch. XI, pp. 449 to 451). It is nowhere t-tated in the 
Gita that the Karma-Yogin rnu.st ultimately give up 
Action; nor is it intended to say so. It is, therefore, not 
proper to take some stanza or other froni the Gita, 
wherever there i.s a chance Of doing so, aid by some 
stratagtiiii or other to give it a reuiiuciatory meaning. That 
is why f;ho Gita lia.s become so difficult to understand for 
many in these days. The propo.sitioii, that the yogarudha 
must continue to perform Actions, is also borne out by 
the definition given in the next stanza. That stanza is as 
follows— ] 

(4) Because, when a man docs not become attached to 
these objects of sense (such as, speech, touch etc.), nor 
to Karma, and when he makes a Renunciation of all savikalpa 
(that is, of tlic Hope of Fruit in the shape of a Desireful 
Reason, and not of Action, literally), he is called a 
‘ yogarucUn'. 

[This stanza may be said to be a continuation of the 
last stanza or perhap.s even of the last three stanzas. 
This clearly shows that the Gita advises the Yogarudha 
to give up not Action, but the Hope of bhuit, or the 
Desireful Reason, and to perlorm Action desirelessly, 
and with a peaceful frame of mind. The words 
‘ samnyam of mddadjMi ’ appear in tbo second stanza above; 
and the.y must be given the same meaning here, as in that 
stanza. Karma-Yoga includes Saihnyasa in ti e shape of 
the Abandonment of the Dope of Fruit, and that man alone 
is thi! true iSaihnyasin, or Yogin, ur the true Ytg lrudha who 
performs all Actions, having ahaiiduned the Dope of Fruit. 
The Blessed Lord now says that succeeding in such a 
Desireless Karma-Yoga, or Remiuciation of Ho le of Fruit, 
is a matter within the control of every man; and if he 




988 


gTtmahasya or karma-yoga 


§§ ^:g^Tc» 7 ?rTf»TR l 

STlRgf iRs^lflTH* 9 H U 

^?g?:TfITrrfr?T^^?I ^I?FIcnRJTT rarT: 1 
3 RTrJi 5 T^g ?Tf^ n 
§§ f^cTTRTr: sr^?T^?T q’GTTRT ^RI^rT** I 
?fl<TIC0T^f;^5 <T«IT TIRTqJTR^If: n ^ n 

himself makes tlie effort, it is not impossible for him to 
achieve it—] 

(5) (Man) should himself bring about his own emanci¬ 
pation; one should not (at any time) discourage oneself; 
because, (every man) iiimself is (said to be) his own bandhu 
( that is, helper), or his own enemy. (6) Who has himself 
conquered Iiimself, becomes his own helper; but who does 
not understand himself, acts towards himself as his own 
enemy. 

[ These two stanzas contain a description of the doctrine 
of Free Will (atma-sm/awff/ya), and propound the principle 
that every one must bring about his own emancipation; 
and that, however powerful Prakrti (Nature) may be, it is 
within one’s own hands to conquer it and to bring about 
one’s own betterment (Gi. Ra. Oh. X, pp. 383 to 391). In 
order that this principle should be firmly impressed on the 
mind, it has been stated (i) positively, that is, by showing, when 
the Atman becomes one’s friend; and again (ii) negatively, 
by showing when the Atman may be said to be one’s enemy; 
and this very principle is again referred to in 13. 28. As 
the word ‘ atmd ’ has three meanings in Sanskrit, namely, 

(1) the ‘ antaratrmn ’, (2) one’s self, and (3) the Internal Sense 
or the Mind, this word, ‘ dtmu ’ appears several times in this 
and the following stanzas. The Blessed Lord now explains 
what result is obtained by bringing the Atman under 
control— ] 

(7) Who has conquered the Atman (that is, his Internal 
Sense), and who has attained tranquility, his ‘paramatman’ 
becomes samdhita (that is, equal and steady) towards heat 
and cold, pain and happiness, honour and dishonour. 



GITA, IRAN STATION & COMMENTARY, CHAP. VI 989 


?TPfT II I 

[ 111 this Ktan'/a, the word ' paramatnian' has been used 
with relerence to the Atman itsoll. The Atni.ii within the 
body is ordinarily engrossed in the turmoil tf pain and 
hapjiiness; I'ut, W'hen this turnioi] has been cmiquered by 
means of control of the souses, the sarne Atm in acquires 
the form of a ‘ partutiulitKjn, or of the ‘ paranit’s >ara It is 
stated further on in tlie Gita itself ( Gi, 13. 22 a id 31 ) that 
the I’ariuiiatman is not some substance, differen; in nature 
from the Atman, hut that llie, Atman within the body of a 
man is essentially the Paraniatniaii; and even in the 
-Mahabharata, ttiero is a statement that -■ 

ahiiU kfii'lrajna ili/ nkhih mAiyukfuh prakrtair punaih I 
fair era fii rwiuriii.tiktuh jKinunahnrfu udUli.rkih li 

( Ma. Bha. San. 187. 24 ), 

that is, “ when the Atman is jirnkrla, that is, bc und by the 
constituents of Prakrti ( liy emotions, such as, happiness, 
pain etc ), it is called the ‘/(■.sc/nyMa ’ or the jivufman', 
within line body; and when it has become free from 
these constituents, the same Atman is called the 
Paramatman ”. It wdll be seen from Chapter IX of the 
Gita-Rahasya, that the same is the doctrine of the Non- 
Dualistic Vedanta. Those who are of opinion that the 
Gita does not .su]iport Non-Dualiain, hut supports Qualified 
Monism (mistadva/tu), or pure Dualism, do not take the word 
‘ paramatrmi' here as a single word, but break it up into 
‘ parat'n' and ‘ alma \ and look iiiioii the word ' par an ' as an 
adverb qualifying the verb ‘ samUhiluh ’. This interpreta¬ 
tion is far-fetched; hut it will sliow how commentators, 
who w'ant to establish a particular doctrine, stretch the 
meaning of the Gita to support their own point of view.] 

(8) He, whose Atman has become satisfied by jnxma (that is, 
Spiritual Knowledge—Trans.) and by v/jfiann, [that is, by 
specified {thvidka) Juana], wdio has conquered his senses^ 
who has become ‘ kkfasl/ia’(that is, who has reached the 
origin), and has begun to look upon the cartli, stone, and 
gold as one and the same, such a (Karma-) Yoiin (alone) 



990 


GITA-RAH ASYA OR KARMA-YOGA 



is said to be ‘yukta’ (that is, to have reached the siddha- 
vastha). (9) That man, whose Reason has become equal 
towards dear persons, friends, enemies, udaslnas, madhya. 
sthas, persons fit to be hated, and brethren, as also towards 
saints, and evil-minded persons, may be said to be of special 
worth. 

suhrd ’ means a fritmd, who helps without expecting a 
return; ‘ udashia ’ is a person, who, where there are two 
factions, does not desire the good or the evil of either party ; 

‘ inadhyaatha ’ is a person, who wishes well by both sides : 
and ‘ handhu ’ is a relation. Such are the meanings given 
by commentators to these words. But it will do, if 
slightly different meanings are taken instead of taking these 
meanings; because, these words have not been used with 
the intention of showing a diS'erent meaning in each case; 
and several words are sometimes used in this way in 
order that an exhaustive meaning may be conveyed by 
the combination, and that nothing should be left 
over. In this way, after having briefly explained wlio 
may be called a ‘ yogi ’, or a ‘ yukta \ or a ‘ yogdrudha ' 
(Gi. 3. 61; 4. 18; and 5. 23), the Blessed Lord has also said 
that every man is free to achieve this Karma-Yoga for 
himself; and that it is not necessary for him to depend 
for assistance on anybody else for that purpose. The 
.Blessed Lord now explains the means for achieving this 
Karma-Yoga— ] 

(10) He, who is a Yogin (that is, a Karma-Yogin) should, 
remaining alone in solitude; controlling his Mind, and his 
Atman ; not entertaining any desire whatsoever ; and giving 
up parigraha (that is, bonds), take constantly to his Yoga- 
practice. 

[ It becomes clear from the next staima that the word 
‘ yunjifa' refers to the Yoga described in the .PatauJala- 




GITA, TRANSLATION & COMMENTARY, C HAP. VI 991 


5Tn%7fH II II 

rft^ jtjt: 1 

55:^??IT^*TIII I* II 

5Tn%^?f %T3n5T^i^f^53[ IIJ > II 

sutras. But, this does not mean that the man who wishes 
to achieve the Karma-YoKa must spend his mtire life in 
the practice of the Patanjala-Yoga. The Pai,ahja]a-Yoga 
has i)oen descrihed in this chapter as a means f )r acquiring 
that Eqnalde Reason, which is necessary in the Karma- 
Yoga ; and solitude is necessary only to that t Ktent. As a 
result of PeakL'ti, many persons are not able to acquire in 
one life the Mental Absorption (mmddhi) described in the 
Patahjala-Ydga ; and the Blessed Jvord has sa d at the end 
of tills eery chapter, that such persons should practise the 
Karma-Yoga by steadying their Reason, as far as possible, 
instead of wasting their whole life in the practice of 
Patanjala-Yoga ; and that by doing so, they will ultimately 
attain I'erfection (mldhi) after many births (Gu Ra. Oh. X, 
pp. 989 1,0 390)— 1 

(11) Having imclmngcably fixed ana’s'nsana' (that is, place 
of sitting—Trans.) on dried grass, covered b}' a deer-skin, 
over which too has been placed a piece of cloth, neither too 
high nor too low, in a pure place, (12) and controlling in 
that place the activities of the * Mental Vision (i. e., citta — 
Trans.) and of the senses, and concentrating the Mind, 
one should practice Yoga, sitting on that siat, for self¬ 
purification. (13) Becoming steady, holding the kdya (that 
is, the back), the head, and the neck fixedl)' in a vertical 
straight line, not looking towards the cardinal directions 
(that is, around oneself ), and fi.xing the, gaze on the tip of 

See, Apte, Practical Sanskrit-Enylish Dictionary, 1924, p. 435 — 

Trans. 





992 


GiTA-RAHASyA OB KARMA-YOGA 


sT^r?cnrJiT f^d^gr^mRg'^ i 
JTT* m^rfr sn^ra JTrqrt»» I'B u 
^^TrJTR fsTUcRT^^; I 
?Tn-fT T%STrtnWTT TIr^‘4mrMJT=5jjfd II II 

one’s nose, (14) not entertaining any fesir, keeping a- 
peaceful frame of mind, observing brahmacarya (that is, 
celibacy—Trans.), controlling the Mind, fixing one’s Mental 
Vision on Me, becoming devoted to Me, one should become 
yukta (i. e., ‘ steeped in Toga ’—Trans.) 

[The words “ in a ijure place ” and “holding the back, 
neck, and the head fixedly in a vortical straight line’’are 
from the Svetasvataropanisad ( see Sve, 2. 8 and 10 ); and 
the whole of the description given above is not from the 
Hatha-Yoga, but is more consistout with the description of 
Yoga given in the ancient Upanisads. In the Hatha- 
Yoga, there is a coercive control of the senses; but it is 
stated later on in the 24th stanza of this very chapter, that 
“ the senses should be controlled by the Mind ” Cf. 
“manasaiva m<(riijayraimm viniijamya”. This clearly shows 
that the Gita does not countenance the Hatha-Yoga. 
Similarly, it has been stated at the end of this chapter, 
that this description is not to be understood as directing a 
person to spend his whole life in the practice of Yoga. The 
Blessed Lord now further expounds the concrete results of 
this Yoga-practice—] 

(15) By thus continually practising the Yoga, the Mind 
comes under control; and the (Karma-) Yogin attains the 
tranquility, to be found in Me, and which is ultimately 
productive of ‘nirvana’ (that is, which causes assimilation 
into Me ). 

[The word ‘continually’ in this stanza is not to be taken 
as meaning for twenty-four hours a day. All that is 
meant is, that one should perform this practice, for a few 
hours every day (see commentary on stanza 10). The 
reason for saying : “become ’maccUta and 'malparayana’ 
while thus practising Yoga”, is that the Patanjala-Yoga is 



GITA, TRANSLATION & COMMENTARY, 0 TAP, VI 993 


^ ^t^st « \\ i> 

g^^jrrsRr^5??T ^rnr wh ii ^js ii 

only ono of the devices or proc-ossos for controlling the 
Mind. When the Mind lia.s been controlled by this 
practicis, it is possible to fix it on other things i istead of on, 
the Blessed Ijord. 'rherefore, the Oita says ;hat, (i) one 
should not thus misapply the concentrated Mind, but 
should utilise this concentration or ‘ saniadhi ' jf the Mind,, 
for acquiring tlie Knowledge of the fcrm of the 
Paranie; vara ; chat, (ii) it is only when this i i done that 
Yoga becomes beneficial ; and that, (iii) otherwise, the 
practice i.s only productive of useless trouble ; a ad the same 
moaning is conveyed later on in tlic ‘29th and tOth stanzas, 
and again in tlic 47th stanza at the end of the chapter. 
Those, who have only practised the physical ccntrol of, or 
acquired the Yoga of, the organs, without being devoted to 
the Iharainesvara, only become adept in sucli aractices, as 
‘jdrana’ (incantation.s to produce inapotency, diseases, or 
infirmities), ‘ rndnuMi' { iiacantations to dostray or kill ), 

‘mstImre 11,1 a’ (incantations for fascinating or enchanting 
and subduing), whicli arc harmful to others. This state of 
things is not desirable either for the Gita or for any other 
path of Release. 'I'he Bles.sed Lord now gives again a 
further elucidation of this Yoga-practice—J 
(16) O Arjuna! he who cats too much, or who cats nothing 
at all, aril.; lie who sleeps too much, or who ceeps awake 
too mucli cannot succeed in (tills) Yoga. (17^ Whose food 
and pastime are moderate, whose .Action is just sufficient, 
and whose sleep and keeping awake are measured, to him, 
(this) Yoga becomes a destroyer of pain (that i;, a producer 
of happiness). 

[In this stanza, the word ‘yopa’ means the practice of 
the Batafijala-Yoga; and the word "yukla' means, moderate, 
enough, or measured; aii l further on also, in one or two 
places the word * ijogn' has been used to mean the 




994 


GiTA-RAHASYA OR KARMA-YOGA 


fr3'E?7% cT^ >> » 

W ^ €tW ^iJrTT I 

?friiRr ’irrn'%^^ 3^*]; ^tjutrir: u » 

Patanjala-Yoga. Nevertheless, it does not, on that account, 
follow that this chapter deals independently with the 
Patanjala-Yoga. It has been clearly stated in the forego¬ 
ing lines that one’s most inrportant duty in life is to 
successfully practise the Karma-Yoga; and that this 
description of the Patanjala-Yoga has been given as being 
a means for attaining that Karma-Yoga, and for that 
purpose only ; and it becomes clear from the words “whose 
Action is just sufficient ”, that this Yoga-practice has to be 
carried on, without giving up other Action. The Blessed 
Lord now first gives a short description of a Yogin, and 
describes the nature of the happiness of mental absorption 
(samadhi )—] 

(18) When the controlled Mind becomes fixed on the 
Atman, and when there does not remain the desire for any 
enjoyment, the man is said to have become ‘yukta\ (19) 
Just as a lamp (that is, the flame of a lamp) kept in a breeze¬ 
less place, remains unflickcring, that same simile is applied to 
the Yogin, who practices Yoga, having controlled the Mind. 

[Besides this simile, there are other similes in the 
Mahabharata, such as, “ the mind of a Yogin becomes 
‘ yuMa just as a man becomes ‘ ijukla ’ (concentrated) when 
taking a utensil filled with oil down a stair-case, or when 
protecting a boat in a storm (Santi. 300. 31, 34). The 
simile in the Kathopanisad of the charioteer and the horses 
of the chariot, is well-known ; and although that simile has 
not been clearly used in the Gita, yet, the 67th and 68th 
stanzas of the second chapter, and the 25th stanza of this 
chapter, have clearly been written with that simile in mind. 
Although the word ‘ yoya ’ has the technical meaning of 
Karma-Yoga ’ in the Gita, yet, that word has been used in 
various other meanings in the Gita; for instance, in 9. 5 
and 10. 7, the word 'yoga has been used to mean “the 



GiTA, TRANSLATION & COMMENTARY, CHAP. VI 995 


%eriwirRR « ^0 i> 

gcpnr?rr?rf^ ?TTT|l^iTl?lRcrilf^»I i 
^1% iT Hrclcf; II ^ i II 

^ ji?5R ^Ti^ cR*. I 

ST ^t^sT S^OITVT II II 

ci RSTIfR^^STiSIRSTIsr ST(iI^l%fT*T I 
S=r R^^sr ST(T^?fT SjrJTiSl'itf4'J0I%rT^ II II 

power to do sotuething supernatural, or whatever is 
desired”. Nay, as tl\e word ‘ yopu ’ has several meanings, 
the sui'iporters of the I’atanjahi'Yoga, or ol' the Saihkhya- 
Yoga, have found an opportunity of making use of that 
fact for saying that the Gita supports tlieir respective 
doctrines. The Blessed Lord now describes in a more 
exhaustive rnanner the ‘ fnunadlu' in the shape of ‘total 
control of the Mental Vision ’ prescribed by the Patanjala- 
Yoga—] 

(20) riiai state in which the Mind remains cntrattced after 
it has become coiiLrollcd by Yoga-practice, and seeing one's 
Atman in which, one remains contented in the Atman itself; 

(21) in whicli It experiences that summit of happiness, which 
is only Mind-Realised ( buddhi^amya ) and imperceptible to 
the senses ; and, having (once) become stcac y in which, It 
does not swerve from the ‘ taltva’ (that is, principle—Trans.); 

(22) similarly, having acquired wliich state. It does not con¬ 
sider tiny otlier attainment as greater, and having become 
steady in which, no pain, however big can move (It) there¬ 
from; (B.I) that state is known as the “viyo^ni (i e., disunion— 
Trans.) from the contact of pain", that is, as ‘ yo^a ’; and 
this ‘ Yoga ' must be practised detcrminijdly, without 
allowiirg die Mind to get tired. 

[These four stanzas make one sentence. The demonstra¬ 
tive pronoun “ to him ” (‘ f<m ’), used at the beginning of 
the 33rd stamza, refers to the description given in the first 
three stanzas; and the four stanzas ci implete the 





996 


GlTA-EAHASYA oe KARMA-YOGA 


§§ T?r?fRfrTrr. i 

?T%^«T?R|^-5Tr ^m^IirT?TT l 
3TTR^'4 TIJTt^T JT T^!%5fTtT II II 

deBcription of the ‘ fnimudlii ’. The wordy used in the 
beginning of the 20th Lstanza are .similar to the de.seription 
of ‘Yoga’ as, “yof/ni ciltuirttinirndJuih”, that is, 
“Yoga means the control of the activitie,s of the Mental 
Vision {dlla}” given in the IMtahjala-Yoga-Sutras. The 
‘samddhi is the culniination of this control of the activities 
of the Mental vi.sion ; and that is called ‘Yoga’: this is the 
new definition of the word ‘//o;/a’, vvhicli has now been inten¬ 
tionally given. It has been stated in the LTpanisads and in 
the Mahabhe.rata, that a deternrined and industrious man 
can accomplish this Yoga in six inontb.s (Maitryu. 6. 28; 
Amrtanada. 29 ; Ma. Bha. Asva. Anugita, 19. 66)- .Never¬ 
theless, it has beo;n stated above in the 20th stanza, and 
later on also in the 28th stanza, that this baiJpiness, arising 
out of the sainudhi (jf the Patahjaki-Yoga, is not the result 
merely of the control of the activities of the Min'd, but 
arises after one has become ac(iuainted with the nature of 
the Atman, after having controlled the activities of the 
Mind. This painless condition is known as ‘ brahmunanda ’ 
(the .Brahmic idi.ss), or, ' Td nuip'ntmdaja happine,sB’ (the 
happiness resulting from the Realisation of the Atman), or, 
''atmunanda' (the Atinic bliss), (Gi. 18. 37, and Gi. Ra. Ch. IX, 
p. 3‘20). It is not that this Equability of the Mind, 
necessary for acquiring the Knowledge of the Atman, can 
be acquired only by the I’atahjala-Yoga ; and it is stated 
in the following chapters that the same result, namely, trie 
purification of the Mind, can also ho achieved by moiins of 
Knowledge ( jndna ) and Devotion (bhukU.) ; and, that course 
is usually considered more proper and ea.sier. The Blessed 
Lord has thus given a description of tVie samadhi ; He now 
explains how that samadhi is to be brought about—] 

(24) Abandoning all the kama (that is, wishes) arising 
out of safnkalpa (that is, imagination—Trans.), and controlling 
the senses on all sides by the Mind, (25) you should gradually 



GITA, TRANSLATION & TOMMENTARY, CHAP. VI 99? 


H7T^?T?fr fff^TiqrT^rw^ci gr^ gr^ci; ii ii 

§§ srTrT??TJT5T^ I 

■3Ttr^ WgPJrfJT^sr^IJi: W R'S II 

^IrJTR ^l»?f RJTfl^^ITT: I 

n ii 

become tranquil, with a courageful Mind ; and steadying the 
Mind on tlie Atman, you should allow no tlicught to enter 
the Mind. (26) (while you are concentrating the Mental 
Vision in this fashion) Controlling the volatile and unsteady 
Mind in every direction, from which it may s ;ek to escape^ 
you should bring it within the control of the /ttnan. 

[The description of this ]m)COBK i)f attaining' the samudhi 
(absorption) of the Mind is well-exem|)iiiied by the 
illustratmn of a clmriot given in the K vthopanisad 
(Kalha. 1. 2. 3). .Just as the .skilful charioteer takes the 
horses along a straight road, witliout allowing iheni to rush 
in this direction or that, the same kind of etforo has a man to 
make in order to attain minadlU. He, who is accustomed to 
concentrate his mind on any i)a.rticular subject, will easily 
understand the nuaiiiiiig underlying this starza. "When 
the Mind is controlled in otie direction, it breaks out in 
another direction; and unless this is stoi)poc, it is n(jt 
po.ssihle i.o attain sainadh/. The Bkssod Lord now describes 
the re.sult which (am be obtained by controlling the Mind 
in this way - -] 

(27) I'lic (Karina-)Yogin, wlio is thus poaccful-minded,. 
devoid of the rajas qu;dity, sinless, and brahma.-ahJila, attains 
the highest kind of bliss. (28) The (Karma-) Yogin, who 
continually practises Yoga in this fashion, beco ncs liberated 
from all sins, and happily enjoys the bcarilic happiness 
arising from hi ahma-sainyoga (i. e., union with the Brahman— 
Trans.). 

[t luiv(! interpreted the word ‘ j/w/j in thesf; t'vo stanzas, 
as meamiig ‘ Karina-Togin ’; becau.se. as the Patanjala- 
Yoga has been mentioned as one of the means fo" attaining. 



998 


GITA-RAHASYA OR KARMA-YOGA 


^fngtTfTrJTT ^^51 U 

?fr ITT q^?n% ^q=r ^ Jn% q??n% i 

5r H ^ Tf sninRi%« ^o u 

the Karma-Yoga, such a man who practises the Patanjala- 
Yoga must be a Karma-Yogin, Nevertheless, it will do if 
the word ‘ yogi' is taken to mean a person, who is in 
samadhi. It must not, however, be forgotten that the 
course of conduct advocated by the Gita is beyond this. 
The same argument is advanced in the next two or three 
stanzas. The Blessed Lord now describes the Seif- 
Identifying {dtmaupamya) vision towards the entire 
creation, ac(iuired after a man has in this way experienced 
the happiness of the nirvatiuii (Absolute) Brahman—] 

(29) Whose Atman has (thus) become yoga~yukta (i. e., 
steeped in Yoga—Trans.), his vision becomes equalised in all 
directions, and he sees himself in all things, and sees (that) 
all created things (are) within himself. (30) Who; sees Me 
(the Paramesvara, Paramatman), (to be) everywhere, and 
who sees everything, within Me, him, 1 never abandon ; nor 
xioes he ever abandon Me. 

[ The description in the first out of these two stanzas, 
where the word ‘ahmn’ has been used, is from the impercept¬ 
ible, that is, the metaphysical point of view; and the second 
description, where the first personal pronoun ‘I’ has been 
used, is from the perceptible, that is, the devotional point 
of view. But both these things mean the same (Gl. Ra. 
Ch. XIH, pp. 598 to 605). This vision of the identification 
of the Brahman with the Atman, is the foundation both of 
Release and of Karma-Yoga. The first part of the 29th 
stanza has appeared with a slight difference in the Manu- 
Srarti (Manu. 12. 91), in the Mahabharata (San. 238. 21 and 
268. 22), and also in the Upanisads (Kaiva. 1, 10; and 
Isa. 6), Nay, the realisation of the identity of the entire 
creation with the Atman is the origin of all Metaphysics 
and of Karma-Yoga, as has been shown by me at great 



GITA, TRANSLATION & COMM ENTARY, CHAP. VI 999' 


3fr JTr i 

^^^TRrsfq ^ n ii 

3TIrlfnT*^!T ^4 q^^frT ?IIS1ST I 

cir ciT ^ ^t^fr qciTl HcT: II II 

length ill Chapter XH of the Oita-liahasya (see p. 537 eic.). 
Although a man may have ol)l,ained contrcl over tlie 
seiiBOS, such control is usnle^'o; in tlie alisonce of ehis Jhana ; 
and therefore, the Blessed Lord starts from the next chapter 
to speak, about the Knowledge of tlie Paramosvt ra, ] 

(31) He, who worships Me (tlie Paraincsvara), Who pervade 
every created thing, keeping in mind the idea of Unity, (that 
is, of the Identity of tlie Atman with all created things), that 
Karma-Yogin, though he may be acting in all manner, is in 
Me. (32) O Arjuna ! that (Karma-) Yogin, who has begun to 
look everywhere with a (Self-Idemifying-) Vision according to 
which, others are the same as himself, such a man is 
considerei-i pararna (that is, most superior). 

[ The idea, that there in only one Atman ;n the entire 
creation, is common to the Baihkhya-marga a s also to the 
Yoga-marga ; in the same way, even accord; ng to the 
Patanjala-Yoga, this llkjnability is attaint 1 after a 
man has Realised the Paraniosva.ra,, .Pnit a? both the 
Sarhkhya-Yogiiis and the I’atanjalaYogins ; npport the 
Abandonment of Action, tlicy nover make i ccasion for 
utilising in actual life tliis fooHiif.’; of Eipiahili ,y ; and the 
Karma-Vogin of the Gita, on the contrary, continually 
utilises in every day life this Eiinaldlity of .R '.non, acquired 
by Metaphysical Idealisation, and goes on per orming all 
the different affairs of the world for Universal Vfelfare: this 
is the great difference between the two ; and, that is why it 
is stated at the end of this cliaptor, that the Karma-Yogin is 
su]n’rii.)r to the Vn/w.sv^irt’, (that is, the Patan.ialn-Vogiri) on 
the one hand, and the ' jildiiiii ’ (tha.t is, the BamPliya-Yogin) 
on the other hand (stanza 4 i ).' Having heard this 
description of the Yoga of Equability, A.rjuin. now raises 
the following doubt— ] 




1000 


GITA-RAHASYA OB KARMA-YOGA 


I 

>0 

§§ ^f54 !n^‘ TTl^^fT I 

t!;aR?rit ^^3^re[TR^s!iT% i%-£r?Pi u Vt >i 

ww 1% ifSTJ srorm i 

cT^^iirt T%5T5 5rr?frft5i ii ^8 n 

R^|i|f^T +l*tl ' 

3T1-'?TI%5T 3 tm^aT ^ II II 

3T^?TT?JRT f ^ »Tm; i 

^RWJRT g ^TcRTT ^^S^TcggqT^TcTl H II 

Arjuna said :—(33) O Madhusudana, I do not think that 
this Yoga (that is, Karma-Yoga), acquired by samya (that is, 
by Equability of Reason), which You have preached will 
last permanently, having regard to the inconstancy (of the 
Mind); (S'!) because, O Krsna! the Mind is volatile, 
rebellious, powerful, and dnlka (that is, difficult to mould); 
I think that the control of it is as difficult as of the wind, 
(that is, as trying to bind the wind in an envelope). 

[The word 'yoga' in the 33rd stanza must be taken as 
meaning ‘ Karma-Yoga ’; because, it is qualified by the 
adjective ‘ by means of samya that is, ‘ by means of 
Equability of Reason Although the samadhi according to 
the Patanjala-Yoga has been described in the foregoing 
lines, yet, the Patanjala-Yoga is not meant by the word 
‘ yoga ' in these stanzas ; because, in Chapter II, the Blessed 
Lord has Himself defined Karma-Yoga as: “ sami/mm yoga 
uccyate ” (3.48), that is, “Equalness of Reason, or Equability, 
is known as ‘Yoga’”. The Blessed Lord admits the 
correctness of the doubt of Arjuna and says—] 

The Blessed Lord said ;—(35) O Mighty-armed Arjuna, there 
is not the slightest doubt that the Mind is volatile, and that 
controlling it, is difficult; but, O Kaunteya, it can be kept 
under control by abhydsa (That is, by practice—Trans.), and 
by vairdgya (that is, absence of Desire—Trans.). (36) That 
man whose Inner Sense (antahkarand) is not within control, 





GITA, TRANSLATION & COMMENTARY, CH. VI 1001 


31^^ t 

§§ sf^TPr: ^i^n^ferriTrsT^; i 

3TIT1C?J cFiT nm 1 II 

for him, i: will be dilticult in !VJ 3 'opinion to achieve this 
Yoga (of Ifqnahie Reason); but, if one makes the effort, 
after contioiling the Inner Sense, it is possiole to acquire 
this Yoga, 

[ In short, that which appears (lifficrilt in the beginning 
can ultimately be a.chieved by practice and by industry. 

' (ibinj^Wii' means ‘doing any particular thing over and 
ovej' again’; and ‘vdirat/i/a means “absence of ‘rur/a’ or of 
‘love’’’, that is to say, “absence of desire”. In the 
Rataiijala-Yoga-Siitras, after first de.scribing t re nature of 
Yoga, as “//of/as cUUlvtH iiunnlhaii", that is, “controlling the 
activities of the Mental Vision is Yoga”, (see the 20th stanza 
of this Chapter), it is stated in the next suira tl at “abinjam 
rairnijifabhijilrn Ian. ninxlhah”, that is, “Mental Vision is 
controlled try practice arul by indilference to the world”. 
The same words have been used in the Gita, and the meaning 
is the same ; but it canu<rt lie stated, 0:1 that account, that, 
these wrrds have been taken from the Patanjala-Sutras 
( 8 eo Gl. Ra. pp, 74()-747). Although it is thus possible to 
attain Aduuldhi (mental absorption ) in this way, by 
controlling the Mind, and although it might be possible for 
some determined per,sons to acquire it by practice in six 
months, yet, another difficulty now arises, to the following 
effect, namely, this highest stage of the Karina-^foga cannot 
be acquired by many poo];)]o oven after several rirths, as a 
result of their inherent nature. How are such people to 
attain iLis Perfection V Because, even if suc-h a person 
begins to practise Karma-Yoga, in one life, after having 
practised the control of the senses as far as possible, yet, 
that practice is bound to remain incomplete at the moment 
of his death; and if in the next birth, he is to start over 
again from the beginning, the same thing will be repeated 
in his next birth. Therefore, the next question of Arjuna 
-is as to what such persons should do— ] 

Arjuna said :—(37) O Krsna, what state is attained by 



1002 


gIta-rahasya or karma-yoga 


3TKf^r JTWRT^ T^JJ^r qfvj II II 

qfTFq spcor I 

^ ii n 

a man, instead of acquiring success in Yoga, who has Faith, 
but whose Mind, on account of his being ayatt (that is, 
wanting in sufficient effort, or sufficient control, as a result 
of his natural proclivities), has moved from the (Karma-) 
Yoga, (consisting of an Equable Reason) ? (Sr-) O Mighty- 
armed Krsna! is such a man, who, being encompassed by 
Ignorance, and not having become steady in the path of 
attaining the Brahmtm, has become hknuita (that is, alienated) 
from both sides, ruined (in the middle) like a broken cloud ? 
(39) O Krsna ! You it is, Who must remove this doubt in 
my mind; because, no one other tlian You will be got for 
removing this doubt. 

[Though in the nun-mtiMm, the prefixed nan (i.e., a) is 
commonly taken to mean ‘ absence of yet, as it is very 
often also used to denote dimnnity, the word ‘ ayati ’ in the 
37th stanza has to be interpreted as meaning, ‘ one who 
makes little, that is, insufficient effort or control The 
words “ alienated from both sides” that is, “iVo bhrai^tas 
tato hhmstah" used in the 38th stanza must be taken to 
refer to the Karma-Yoga. If Action is performed accord¬ 
ing to the directions of the Sastras, though dosircfully, one 
obtains heaven; and if it i.s performed with a Desircless 
Reason, one obtains Release, without being bound by the 
Action; these are the two results of Karma; but, this man, 
who is neither here nor there, does not get the Desire-born 
Fruit in the shape of heaven, etc., because, that has not 
been his motive ; and cannot also attain Release, as he has 
not acquired Equability of Reason. Arjuna’s question is 
whether, in this way, heaven is lost and Release is also lost 
to him; whether, ghee is lost to him, as also the oil, and' 




GlTJ\, TBANSLATION & TOMMENTARY, OH. VI 1003 


qr^-l ^Ti^T i 

If it rTTcT II Ho u 

sin:?! ^tnjfTrfTWT^f^tf^Tr ^«T** i 

5!friT?Tr ii ii 

3T5!T?rT ^rniJiTt^f i 

f^»Trf< ^1% II a*J H 

there reiuuiiis in IiIb haiida tho empty vessel*, 'like a persoin 
abandoned by both sides. It is not that this question, 
applies only to the means for the acquhsion of the Karrna^ 
Yoga in tlic shape of tho practice of Patanjala-Yoga. It 
has been stated in tho following chapter,s, that the 
Equability of Reason uecossary for Karma Yoga can be 
acquired cither by tho ratanjalu-Yoga, or by Devotion, or 
by Knowledge; and just as tlio means in tlio shape of 
Pataujala-Yoga are likely to remain incomplete in one 
life, so also are the means in tho shape of Devotion, or 
of Knowledge,—if those i)aths are followed,—also likely tO' 
remain incomplete in one life, 'rhercfore, the reply given 
by tlic Ble.s.sod Lord to this que8ti(m of Arjuna may be said 
to apply c(iually to all the variou.s means in the path of 
Karjna-Yoga,J 

The Blessed Lord said : —(40) 0 Paithn ! such a man does not 
come to grief, whctlior in this world or i v the next ; 
because, my friend, no man, who performs beneficial 
Actions, ever reaches an unhappy end. (41) This Yoga- 
bhrafjta (that is, this man, who has fallen from the Path of 
Karma-Yoga), takes ^ re-) Inrtli in the family of pure-minded 
rich people, after reaching the spheres (like hmven, etc.), 
which are attained by people, who perform good Actions, and 
(after) having remained th ;rc for many years; (42) or, ho is 

^ Ti.iJ is a roferuiiue to tho story of a foul, wLo went to < uy 
clarified butter, ns nf-^o oil, with a vom.io 1 (usually used for burning 
incense), wl i<',li lias openings on b tli sido^ and a pai tition iu the 
middle , and who, putting tlic clarifitd butter on one ddo inv,irted 
the vessel to put the oil in ou too other side, and i.hus lost the 
clarified but ermid tliou lost tho oil also, iu inverting the vessel 
again, to see what had become of tho clarified blitter.—Trans. 






1004 


gtta-rahasya or karma-yoga 


^ cTcft II 8^ H 

gTiT^TSiq I 

II 88 II 

M^UrHIC Icr tT R^ ^Ttlft I 

3T%griT7Tm%^??T^ ^iIt q?:r u 8H ii 


born in the family of intelligent (Karma-) Yogins ; such (re-) 
births are very rare in (this) world. (43) The spiritual 
impressions a'cquired in the previous births, came to him 
again here (that is, in the birth which he has thus acquired) ; 
and, O Kurunandaua! he attempts to acquire success (in 
Yoga), which is ‘ bhuyah ’ (that is, even higher). (44) As a 
result of that practice, made by him in the previous births, 
he is necessarily (that is, though he may not wish it) drawn 
(towards complete siddhi). He, who has experienced 
the jijfidsa (that is, the desire to possess the knowledge) of 
(Karma-)Yoga, such a man also goes beyond the sabda-brahma 
(that is, the desire-prompted ritual, such as, Yajnas, Yagas, 
etc., prescribed by the Vedas—Trans.). (45) Becoming 
absolved of sin, while (thus) practising industriously, the 
(Karma-) Yogin, acquires success, after many births, and 
reaches a most superior state. 

[The words ‘ yoga, ‘ yoya-bhrasta ’ and ‘ yogi' in these 
stanzas have been used as meaning ‘Karma-Yoga’, ‘one 
who has fallen from the Karma-Yoga ’ and ‘ Karma-Yogin 
respectively ; because, being born in a rich family cannot 
be proper for anyone else. The Blessed Lord says that one 
should start the practice of the Karma-Yoga with as much 
pure-mindedness as possible in the beginning. Whatever 
Action is performed in this way, however little it be, that 
will gradually bring more and more of success ; and in the 
next life, if not in this life, it will ultimately lead to 
Release. The stanzas, “ if this ‘ course of conduct ’ 

(‘ dhartna ’) is observed even to a small extent, it saves a 
person from the great danger” (Gi. 2. 40), and “one 
reaches Vasudeva after many births” (Gl. 7. 19) further 





GlTA,'rEA.NSLATION& COMMENTARY, OIL. VI 1005 

support (his proposition. For further discussion on this 
subject, see pp. 389-395 of Chapter X of the Gita-Rahasya, 
The word ' sabda-lrrahim’ used in the 44th stanza means 
‘ desire-prompted ritual, such as, Yajnas and Yagas, 
prescribed by the Vedas’; because, that ritual is enji lined by the 
Vedas ; and it is performed, keeping faith in the Vedas ; and 
the ‘Veda’ is the ‘ sahda ’ (word), that is, the ‘ sabda-brahma', 
which was in existence before the entire creation came into 
existence. Any person whosoever ])erforms all Actions with 
some desire in the first instance; but, as ttu JVIind is 
gradually purified by the performance of such Action, he 
gradually acquires the inspiration of performing Action 
desirelessly. That is why it is stated in the Vpanisads, as 
also in the Mahabharata that: 

dve brahtiuini veditavye sidtdn-brahma parafh- cv yaf \ 
sabda-brahinani nitftidfah param brahmadhigaccJuiti II 
that is, “it must be understood that the Brahman is of 
two kinds, namely, the sahda-b7'iihiiin, and the other (that is, 
nirguya-bi-ahma) beyond it; when a person has bei ome well- 
versed in the sabda-brahina, he readies the nirgvy,a-brahma, 
which is beyond it” ( Maitryu. 6. 22 ; Amrtabindu, 17 ; 
Ma. Bha. San. 231. 63 ; 269. 1). Getting tired of the desire- 
prompted ritual prescribed by the sabdu-brahma (that is, the 
Vedas), the man gets the desire to practise the Xarma-Yoga, 
which prescribes the same Actions, but for Universal 
Welfare; and in this way, this Desireless Karraa-Yoga is 
for the first time practised to a certain extent. Later on, 
according to the rule " smlparambhah ksemakarah", this 
little practice slowly drags the man more and more forward 
by gradual degrees; and, ultimately gives him complete 
Release. This is the meaning of the words, “ who has 
experienced the desire to possess the knowledge c f Karma- 
Yoga, such a man also goes beyond the sahda-brahma ", 
which appear in the 44th stanza; because, such a desire, or 
‘ jijndsa ’, is the mouth of the grinding-mill in the shape of 
Karma-Yoga ; and once one gets into this mill, then, either 
in this life or in the next, and sometime or other, one 
cannot but get complete success, and reach the {nirguna} 
Brahman, which is beyond the sabda-brahma. It would 



1006 


GlTA,-RAHASYA OR KAEMA-YOGA 


§§ irrf^wffsf^ jjrftsfw: i 

^ETt cT^f^nft l> 8^ l> 

appear at first sight that Janaka and others acquired this 
success in one life; but, considering the matter scientifi¬ 
cally, those persons also must have acquired that fruit as 
a result of the spiritual training acquired in many previous 
births. In as much as practising Karma-Yoga, even to 
a small extent, nay, oven the desire for doing so, is in this 
way always beneficial; and, also as one undoubtedly 
acquires Release by means of it, the Blessed Lord now says 
to Arjuna as follows— ] 

(46) The (Karma-) Yogin is superior to the lapasvin ; he- 
is also superior to the jnmin, and also superior to the 
kartnin ; tasmat, (that is, therefore,—Trans.), O Arjuna, do 
you become a Yogin, (that is, a Karma-Yogin). 

[The meaning of the word ‘tajmsvin in this stanza is, 
‘one, who, going into the forest, performs fasts and other 
body-tiring practices, or other devices of the Hatha-Yoga, 
and obtains Release’; and, that is also the meaning of that 
word in common parlance. ' jmrdn ’ means naturally that 
‘ samkhya-nititha ’ person, who is described by the words 
“ jnUnaijoyena sanil(hyana7/t etc. ” ( Gi. 3. 3 1; and who, by 
means of ' jilana ', that is, by the Samkhya path, abandons 
Action, and obtains Release. In the same way, ‘ karmin ' 
means the orthodox ritual-practiser of the Mimamsa 
school, who aspires to heaven, and performs only desire- 
prompted ritual, and who is described in Gl. 3. 43-44, and 
9. 30, 21. Persons in each of these three paths of life say 
that Release is obtained only by the path of life followed. 
by them respectively ; but, the Gita says that the Karma- 
Yogiii, and necessarily the path of life known as ‘Karma- 
Yoga’, is superior whether to the tapasvin, or the Mlmaih- 
saka, or the Jnanin; and the same proposition has been 
enunciated before in the words “Action is bettor than 
Inaction” (Gi. 3. 8); and “ Karma-Yoga is better than 
Karma-Samnyasa ” etc. (Gl. 5. 2); and in other stanzas 







GTtA, TEANSLATION & COMMENTARY, OH. VI 1007 


iir m ^ H i^Rcmt *m:« «« » 

(seeGl(,.a-Riihtisyu, Oh. XI, pp. 424-426), Nay; the Karma- 
Yogiri is superior even to the tapattvin, or the Miiparii.saka, or 
the Jnaniu; and, that is why the ttlessod Lord has, in stanza 
46, again clearly advised Arjnna that: “do you become a 
(Karina-)yogin’’, in the same way aslie hadad^dsed Arjuna 
above to: “perform Action, being ijogasflia” (Gl, 2, 48; 
Gi. Ea. pp. 78-79); or, “arise, taking shelter in Yoga” (Gl, 4. 
42), Again, if one does not thns consider the JCarma-Yoga 
as the superior path, the word ‘/usai(l/.'=‘there'i'oro’, in the 
sentence, “tlierefore, do you becojue a Yogin”, yill become 
meaningless; ijvit, how will this proposition ie palatable 
to the commentators of the Saihnyasa school? Therefore, 
they have twisted tlie moaning of the word 
interpreted it to mean “one who has ac,(]rired mere 
‘sdhila-Jtlaaii or ‘b(,)okish knowledge’ ” ; but, this interpreta¬ 
tion is jrurely doctrine-supporting. These commentators 
do not want to interpret the Gita as saying that it 
considers the .Ihfina-marga, which gives up Karma, as 
inferior ; because, thereby a slur is cast on the doctrines of 
their school. And, it is for this very reason, that they have 
perverted the moaning of the phrase “karniaijiiio visisiinU'” 
(Gi. .6, 2); but, as this matter has been fully cf nsidered by 
me in Ohapter XI of the Gita-llahasya (p, 424 c/.se(/.), I 
shall not further discuss hero the interpretation of this 
stanza given by me. In iny opinion, it is unriuestionable 
that the Karma-Yoga i.s absolutely the best path of life 
according to the Gita. The Blessed Lord now explains in 
the next stanza the various degrees (jf snpericrity among 
.Karma-Yogi ns- - J 

(47) Nevertheless, he, among all (Karmu-Yogins), who, fixing 
his mind on Me, worsliips Me devotedly, is ernsidered by 
Me as the most superior yukta (that is, the most completely 
perfect Kanna-Yogin). 

[The ivurport of this stanza is that, when to Karma-Yoga 
is added the affection included iti Devotion, that Yogin 



1008 GI TA-RAHASYA OR KARMA-YOGA 

becomes tbe most beloved of the Blessed Lord, as when 
sugar is added to milk. It does not mean that Devotion is 
better than the Desireless Karma-Yoga; because, later on in 
Chapter XII, the Blessed Lord has Himself clearly stated 
that Renunciation of the Fruit of Action is better than 
Meditation ( dhyana), (Gl. 12. 22). It is one thing to say 
that the mixture of Devotion and of Desireless Action is 
valuable, and it is quite another thing to say that the 
Desireless Karma-Yoga is useless, and that Devotion is 
superior £o it. The doctrine laid down by the Gita is of the 
first kind; and that laid down by the Bhagavata-purana is 
of the second kind. It has been stated in the first, and 
again in the last chapter of the Bhagavata, after declaring 
that all kinds of kriydyoga (ritual) are destructive of Spiri¬ 
tual Knowledge (see Bhag. 1. 5. 34), that, 

naifikarmyarn apy acijuta bhavavarjitam 

m iohfuile jnmiamalam niranjanarn I 

( Bhag. 1. 5. 12 and 12. 12. 52 ), 

that is, “even naiskannya, i, e., ‘Desireless Action* 
(Bhag. 11. 3. 46), does not seem good, is useless, without 
devotion to the Blessed Lord”. This will show that as the 
entire bias of the writer of the Bhagavata is on Devotion, 
he even goes beyond the Bhagavadglta, when occasion 
arises. This Purana came to be written in the belief that 
due stress was not laid on Devotion in the Mahabharata, 
and necessarily, in the Gita. Therefore, it is not a matter 
of surprise, if one finds in it statements similar to those 
above. But, what we have to see is the summary or the 
import of the Gita, and not what the Bhagavata says. The 
occasion for writing, as also the time of writing, was 
different in each case; and, therefore, it is not possible to- 
fully harmonise them with each other. This chapter has 
described the devices from the Patahjala-Yoga, which are 
part of the devices necessary for cultivating the Equability 
of Reason required in Karma-Yoga. Knowledge, and 
Devotion, are other such devices; and their description starts 
from the next chapter. ] 



GiT A, a’RANSLATION & COMMENTARY, OH. VI 1009 


4t*T?Tr^ 

>;?TR?rnTr ifw o ^ o 

Thus ends, the sixth chapter entitled D^'ANA-Yoga in 
the dialogue between Sri Krsna and Arjunr. on the Yoga 
included in the Science o( the Brahman (;hat is, on the 
Karma-Yoga), in the Upanisad sung (that is, told) by the 
Blessed Lord. 



CHAPTER YH. 

[After having proved that the Karma-Yoga is as much 
productive of Release as the Samkhya-marga, and yet, 
independent and superior to it; and that even a little 
practice of this Yoga is not useless, the Blessed Lord has 
explained how to acquire the control of the senses necessary 
in that path of life. But, the control of the senses is a 
purely external Action, and the purpose for which this 
exercise of the sensas is necessary, has not yet been 
considered. The Bleissed Lord had already explained to 
Arjuna in the third chapter tliat, enemies like Desire, Anger 
etc. fix their abode in the senses, and destroy both Spiritual 
Knowledge {jMrui) and Specilied Knowledge ( vijmna), and 
that he should, therefore, first control the senses and 
destroy these enemies; and He had thus .shown tlie necessity 
for the control of the senses; and Ho has also described the 
Yoga-//a/f/u person in the last chapter as one who, after- 
having controlled the .senses, “has become satisfied by 
Jnana and Vijnana’’ (6. 8), and “sees the Paramesvara 
in all created beings, and all created beings in the Parame¬ 
svara ” (6. 39). Therefore, as Ho has explained to Arjuna 
what is meant by the control of the senses, it has become 
necessary for Him, as a matter of course, to also explain to 
him what is‘Jif ana’ and what is ‘Vijnana’, as also the 
methods (uidki) of the Karma-Yoga, by which one can 
acquire the complete Knowledge of the Paramesvara, 
without abandoning Action, and ultimately attain Release 
with certainty; and this same subject lias been explained 
in the eleven chapters of the Gita from the seventh chapter 
to the end of the seventeenth chapter; and in the last, that 
is, in the 18th chapter of the Gita, a summary of the 
Karma-Yoga has been made. Realising that there is only 
One Indestructible Paramesvara, Who pervades all the 
various perishable things which fill the world, is known as 
‘Jnana’; and understanding in what way the various 
perishable things come into existence out of one permanent 



GITA, TRANSLATION & CXIMMENTARY, OH. VII 1011 

Paramesvara, is known as ‘ Vijnana’(Gi. 13, 30); andtMg 
is also known as ‘ Itmrakmru-viciira ’ (the Consideration of 
the Mutable and the Immutable). But, in addition to this, 
one cam also acquire the Knowledge of the form of the 
Paraniesvara by understanding wliat is the l ature of the 
Atman or Self, to bo found withiti the body or ' kselm’ of 
every person. This method of consideration is called 
' k.'ie/ra-kNtirajfHi-rirara' that is, the, Considej-ation of the 
Body ( IcAdfra) aiid the Atman ( ksPtmjTtii). < )ut of these, 
the Blessed Lord has first started the Consideration of the 
Mutable and the Immutable; and taken in hand the 
Considtu-ation of the Body and the Atman in Chai^ter 
XIII. But, althougli the Parame.svara may be One, He 
has two a8pect,s from the point of view of Worship, namely, 
the Imporcoptiblo (ae/ya/cd«) one, which is realisable only 
by the Rea,son; and the Perceptiide (/.'//a/da) one, which is 
empirical, that is, which can be actually ex])erienced. It 
is, therefore, necessary to explain, as a part of this subject- 
matter, how ono can Realise the Paramesvara by means 
of Reason, as also how it is possible to Realise the 
Impercepti!)le, by worshipping the perceptible form, in the 
first instance, with Faith or Devotion. One should not, 
therefore, be surprised if this snitject-matter l as taken up 
eleven chapters. Besides, as both these paths of life 
automatically produce the control of the senses, simultane¬ 
ously with the Knowledge of ParamcWara, the Path of 
Knowledge and the Path of Devotion are both considered 
to be of greater value in the science of Rebiuse, than the 
Patanjala-Yoga path. Nevertheless, it must bo borne in 
mind that all this exposition is a part of the justification 
of the Path of Karma-Yoga, and is nor something 
independent. Therefore, the division of the Gba into three 
parts, a(!cr)rding to which the first six chapter s deal with 
Karma, the next six chapters deal with Devotion and last 
six cliapters deal with Knowledge, is not a scientifically 
correct division. Broadly speaking, all these three subjects 
have been dealt with in the Gita; but they are not 
independent, and have been dealt with as be ng parts of 
the Karma-Yoga, as has been explained by mo in chapter 



1012 


GlTA.~RAHASyA OR KARMA-YOGA 


§§ jr:?n^Tfn7iTn qr4 qr*! i 

Iff w \ ii 

irnr ^rq^fRW? q?!-?TH:q#TfT: I 

»0rS?q^rcTiq*TqftTcq^ » ^ U 

XIV of the Gita-Rahasya (pp. 638 to 644). Therefore, 
instead of repeating the same subject-matter here, let us 
see how the Blessed Lord starts the 7th chapter—-] 

The Blessed Lord said :— (1) O Partha ! hear jva^Ad (.that 
is, in which manner or what method) you will acquire 
complete and unquestionable knowledge of Me, while you 
are practising the Karma-Yoga, keeping your mind on Me, 
and taking shelter in Me. (2) Leaving nothing in balanco- 
I am explaining to you this ' Juana ’ together with ‘ Vijhana'* 
by knowing which, there remains no other thing in this, 
world to know. 

[ From the words “taking shelter in Me” and specially the 
word ‘ Yoga ’ used in the first stanza, it becomes quite clear 
that the ‘ Jnana ’ and ‘ Vijiiana ’ explained further on, has 
been explained, not independently, but as a means for 
perfecting the Karma-Yoga, which has been described in 
the previous chapters (Gl. Ra. Ch. XIV, p. 641). Not only 
in this stanza, but also in other places in the Gita, the 
words “ mad yogam asritah” (Gi. 12. 11) “mat parah” 
(Gl. 18. 57 and 11. 55) have been used with reference to the 
Karma-Yoga; and therefore, there remains no doubt that 
the Yoga which the Gita ordains for practice, after one has 
taken shelter in the Paramesvara, is the Karma-Yoga,, 
which has been dealt with in the last six chapters. Some 
persons interpret the word ‘ vijndna' as meaning the. 

‘ brdhrmjnaTui (Knowledge of the Brahman), which is 
acquired by experience’, or the ‘ brahmasulcsatkdra But, 
as the knowledge of the Paramesvara is divided into 
synthetic (sa}ruistirupa) Knowledge, (that is, Jnana), and 
analytical ( vyaspirupa ) Knowledge, (that is, Vijhana), I 
think those are the two meanings, which are here conveyed 






GITA, TRANSLATION & COMMENTARY, OH. VII 1013 


^fTcTmi^ T%:iIRf ^ ^ l> 

by the words ‘jaami and 'vijnana' (See Gl. ] 3 30 and 18. 20). 
The words “there rcinains no other thing in this world to 
know” in the second stanza, have been stated on the 
authority of the Uijanisads. In the Chandogyopaiiisad, the 

father of Svetaketu, after asking him : “ yenn . 

amjmiluni vijhalafn hliavuli'’, that is, “what is That, by 
knowing Which, one can know'everything”, 1ms explained 
to him that problem by saying : “ yafha mtmjaikem mrt~ 
piitdena sarva'i'n iiiriintatja/'/i vijilatam syail vacuniwbhavui'n 
vikUro nUtnadlieyuiii nirtUkety emi salyafh ” (Ghan. 6. 1. 4), that 
is, “ just as, after once knowing what is contained in a ball 
of clay, one knows that all earthenware articles are only 
different evolutes of clay, bearing different Names and 
Forms, and nothing else, so also after knowing the 
Brahman, nothing else remains to be known”; and even 
in the Mundakopanisad ( Man. 1. 1. 3), the first question is : 

“ kafsiidn nu bhagavo vijuale sarvam ida/'n tijlatam bhuvati”, 
that is, “by knowing what, is knowledge of all other things 
acquired ? ”. From this, it is clear that whai; is meant here 
is the Non-Dualistic Vedanta doctrine thal, (i) when one 
has acquired the Jhana and the Vijnana of the Paramesvara, 
nothing (3lse remains to bo learnt in this ^vo^ld; because, 
the Fundamental Element of this world is only one; that, 
(ii) this Fundamental Element pervades everything in 
different Names and h’onns ; and that, (iii) there is no other 
thing besides it in the world. Otherwi.se, the statement 
made in the second stanza does not become intelligible, j 

(3) Only some persons out of thousands make an attempt to 
attain Perfection; and out of these (numerous) Perfect 
Beings, who make the attempt, only some gain true Know¬ 
ledge of Me. 

[ Though the persons who are making the attempt, are 
referred to as " si.ddha-jmrusd’ (Perfect Beings) in this 
place, yet, it must be borne in mind that tliey attain 'skldhi' 
(Perfection) only after having acquired the Knowledge of 





1014 


GITA-RAHASYA or karma-yoga 


§§ srrg: HfTT ^ > 

?cfT4 ^ srffldigviT II a II 

3T^?IlJTcT^rEp^f ITfrm T%T^ ^ 'Km I 

art mirT: RVici: II ^ ii 

rtt: qmt Jnrm'f^f^Trm i 

Jn% ^RT ^ m^^TOTT m II ^ II 

"the Paramesvara. Tlio Blessed Lord now starts the 
Consideration of the Mutable and the Immutable, being one 
of the two sub-divisions of this Knowledge of the 
Paramesvara, namely, (i) the Consideration of the Mutable 
and the Immutable and (ii) the Consideration of the Body 
and the Atman— ] 

(4) Tho earth, water, lire, air, and ether (these five subtle 
elements), the Mind, the Reason, and Individuation, this is 
My Prakrti divided into eight-divisions. (5) This Prakrti is 
‘ aparU' (that is, of an inferior order). O Mahabaho, Arjuna, 
know that there is besides this, yet another Prakrti of Mine, 
in the form of Jiva, which is para (that is superior), by which 
this world is maintained. (6) Bear in mind that from both 
tliese, all created beings arc created. 1 am the ‘prabhava 
(that is, the origin ) and the ' pralaya ’ (that is, the end ) of 
the entire Cosmos. (7) Beyond Me, O Dhananjaya, there is 
nothing else. Just as several beads are strung on a string, 
so is all this strung on Me. 

[These four stanzas contain a summary of the science of 
the Mutable and the Immutable; and the same has been 
dealt with in ext<mHo in the subsequent stanzas. The 
Sarhkhya system says that (i) there are two independent 
Elements of the universe, namely, (a) the acetana 
(inanimate) or jada (gross) Prakrti (Matter) and (b) the 
‘ sacffiina ’ (conscious) Purusa (Spirit); and that, (ii) every¬ 
thing is created out of these two Elements. But, as the 
Gita does not admit this Duality, it looks upon Prakrti and 
Purusa, as two manifestations {viblmti) of one and the same 



GiTA, TllANSLATION & COMMENTARY, CH. VII 1015 


Paraniesvara, of which Gross Matter {ja(}a jiralcrti) is an 
inferior manifestation, and the ‘ Jiva ’ or ‘ Purusa ’ (that is, 
Spirit) is the superior one (See the 4th and 5th stanzas); 
and it further states that all moveable and immoveable 
creation is created out of these two (Gi. lb. 26). Out of 
these, the superior Prakrti in the form of Jl\ a, considered 
as the Atman (ks<^h'ajna), has been fully considered later on 
in the Chapter XlII. Then remains Gross Matter (ju^a 
prukrti). The Gita does not look upon this ah independent, 
but considers that the orrtire creation is crealed •out of this 
Gross Matter, under the supervision of the Paraniesvara 
(Gl. 9. 10). Nevertheless, thous^h the Gltsl does not look 
upon Prakrti as independent, yet, the divisions of Prakrti 
according to the Samkhya system have been rccepted with 
minor dift'eronc3,s by the Gita (Gl. Ra. Chapter Vill, 
p. 244-250); and the Gita al.so accepts the Saii khya theory 
of (junolkicrsa regarding the sulwoiiuent ert ation of all 
things out of Prakrti (Gi, Ha. Ch. IX, p. 3 !4-335), after 
Gross Matter has come into existence out of the 
Paraniesvara (Gi. 7. 14) as a result of Maya, iccording to 
the yaihkbyas, Prakrti and Purusa make uji 15 Elements ; 
out of these, Prakrti gives rise to 23 Eleiru nts. Out of 
these twenty-three, the live Gross Elements, t le ten senses, 
and the Mind, these 16, arise out of the laMoaining seven, 
that is, are Evolutes (wAuto) of those seven. Therefore, in 
considering the Eundamental Elements, these sixteen ele¬ 
ments are left out of account; and when that is done, there 
remain only seven Elements as Eundamental Elements, 
namely, the llea.soii (inalum). Individuation (a 'lamldini) and 
the five Eine Elements (/aw/iw/Z/a). These sevtii have been 
named ' prakrti-vikTii ' in the Saiidchya system, and these 
seven imikrti-oikTli and the E’undamental ifrakrti, now 
make up what is known as the ‘ Eight-fold Prakrti ’; and 
this known as the ‘ at<fatllid prakrti' (that is, Eight-fold 
Prakrti) in the Mahabharata (San. 310. 10-15). But the 
Gita has not considered it proper to place the original 
Prakrti in the same grade as the seven ijrakrli,-rikrli\ 
because, if that i.s done, the distinction that there is one 
Eundamental Prakrti and that the remaining seven are its 




1016 


GITA-RAIIASYA OR KARMA-YOGA 


§§ snfnf^JT I 

STOI^. ^T®T’ ^ ^ II C II 

3^T ^ I 


(Tq^fjT cTqftq^ II % II 
Jit qT'4 JTJTI dHH ' 



tni^triTRcpniT^Ji: u ?o n 


Evolutes (mkaru) is not shown. Therefore, there is n 
difference between the cla.ssiflcation in the Mahabharata 
and the classification in the Gita, according to which 
latter, the seven pnikTli-rikHi and the Mind make up 
the Fundamental eight-fold Prakrti (Oi. Ra. p. 249). In 
short, it must be borne in mind tliat although the Gita 
does not accept the independent Prakrti of Saihkhya 
philosophy, the description of the further growth of Prakrti 
is essentially the same in both places. As in the Gita, so 
also in the IJpanisads, there is a statement that, 

ptaf^nidj jUijate prana iiKtiiuh niimmdriijrmi cn I 
khai'n vaijur ji/ofir djxih prlluin lyUrmija dhdrini ll 
that is, “from this ipara-pur7mt), Prana (Vitality), the Mind, 
all the senses, ether, air, fire, water, and the earth, which 
supports the Universe, these (all) are created ” (Munda. 
2.1.3 ; Kai. 1. 15; Prasna. b. 4). For further details, see 
Chapter VI11 of the Glta-Rahasya. It has been stated by 
the Blessed I.ord in the 4th stanza that Ho Himself is the 
five Elements, namely, the Earth, Water, etc. Now, saying 
that He is also the qualities which are to be found in these 
Elements, the Blessed Lord makes clear what is meant by 
the statement made above, that all these things are strung 
on a string like beads -] 

(8) I am the Liquidity, of water, O Kaunteya ; I am tlie 
Effulgence, of the Sun and the Moon ; I am the ‘ prunava' 
(that is, the Om-kara), in all the Vedas ; 1 am the Sound, of 
Ether; and I am also the Manhood, in .all men. (9) Audi 
am the(that is, the smell), of the earth ; and 
also, the Lustre, of fire ; I am the Life-Force, in all created 
beings, and I am the Austerity, in those who perform 
austere practices. (10) O Fartha 1 know that I am the 




GITA, TRANSLATION & COM MENT ARY, C E, VII 1017 


ii \\ " 

% MRT Tm^T^rTiR^rra ^ > 

JT^ viim rTlf^r^ 5T fcl^ ^5 ^ ITI% II II 

Eternal Seed, of all created beings ; I am the Intelligence, of 
all intelligent people; and the Brilliance, of those who are 
bright. (11) 1 am the Strength, of all tlic strong, but not 
their kama (that is, Uesirc) or rd/ra (that is, Attjichment to 
objects of sense) ; and O Bharatasrestha! I am also the 
kdma, which dwells in all created beings, \/hich is not 
antagonistical to Morality. (12) And know also that the 
satlvika, rnjasa, and tdmasa ' Bhava’ (that is, ol jeets) are all 
sprung out o( Me; but they are in Me, and 1 am not 
in them. 

iThe moaning of the words “ they are in Me and I am not 
in them ” is very deep. The lirst, that is, the broad 
meaning, is tliat, all things have sprung from the 
Paramesvara, and tirat though Iho I’aranresv ira is the 
substratum in the shaire of the qualities in all thizigs, like 
the string round which the beads are strung, yet, the 
pervasiveness of the Paramesvara does not end •! here ; and 
that, the Paramesvara pervades all the.se tbiiirfs and is 
also beyond; and the siune meaniTig is brought out later 
on in tlie words, “ I have occupied the whob of this 
universe by only a part of Myself” in Gi. 10 42; but, 
there is another moaning, whicli is always implied, namely, 

“ though the diversity izi the three-constituontec universe 
seems to liavo sprung from Mo, yet, that diversity does not 
exist in My qualityless (mr<jimii) form”; and there are 
descriptions of the supernatural powers of the Pazamesvara 
later ozi (Gi. 13, 14-16), which have boezz made ozi the basis 
of this szicwzzd meaziizig; such as, “bhutabhrt na ca 
hhukislhah" (Gi. 9. 4 and 5) etc. If the pervasiveness of the 
Paramesvara is thus znore than that of the universe itself, 
then it is clear that one must go beyond ti e Mayic 
universe in order to fully understand the true form of the 





1018 


GITA-RAHASYA OR KARMA-YOGA 


snmsTRTm w Vk i> 

M li^r gnnr^fr ^ jrnrr f?:r?T?ir • 
jTF^sr ^ ^r^^cTT ^ h ii 

Pararaesvara; and this moaning is now plainly brought 
out by tho Blessed Lord—] 

(13) This entire universe, being confused by the three 
‘lihava’ (that is, objects), which arc the embodiment of the 
three (saliva, rajas and lamas) constituents, does not 
realise Me, the Incx'haustible ( Paramesvara), Who Am 
beyond them (that is, necessarily qualitylcss). 

[ Maya, or ignorance is the inherent quality of the senses 
and of the Body, in which the threo-constituents are embodied; 
it is not the quality of the Atman; tho Atman is Jnana- 
formed, and is permanent; and It is thrown into confusion, 
by the senses: this Non-Dualistic proposition, which has 
been mentioned in Chapter IX of the Gita-Rahasya with 
reference to Maya, has been stated in the above stanza. 
(See Gi. 7. 24 and Gi. Ra, Ch. IX, pp. 325-341, ] 

(14) This My divine Maya, which is the embodiment of the 
constituents, is difficult to understand ; and tlierefore, they 
alone, who surrender themselves to Me, can swim through 
this Maya. 

[ This clearly show.s that the Blessed Tjord refers to the 
three-constituonted Prakrti of the Satnkhya system as His 
Maya. It has been stated in tho Nfu'ayaniyopakhyana of 
the Mahribharata that, the Blessed Lord, after showing His 
Cosmic Form to Narada, said in the end :— 

mayZi hi/esU jnaya srslu yan maiii pusyasi narada i 
SurvaUhTitayv/nairyuk/am naivn ivavi jndtiim, arhnsi li 

( ,%n. 339. 44) 

that is, “O Narada, that which you see, is tho Maya,, 
which has been created by Me. Do not think that I possess 
the qualities, which are to be found in tho created world”. 
The same proposition has now been stated here. For a 
description of the nature of Maya, please refer to Gl. Ra. 
Ch. IX and X. ] 




GiTA, TRANSLATION & COMMENTARY, C!H. VII 1019 


^ JTT ^r- wenrn « 

TTf^ P Tgri^?n h 

§§ Hf ^r- 1 

3TT^ T^^^’ir‘4T ^ MTrT^M « « 

^ ITT^ I 

fspir f^ ^TT%5TTSr?I^t ^ ^ »T*T '» « 

■3^(TT'- fn^n FillrTt^I ^ ITcW; I 

3TTR5!JcT: ^ f^ JTTit^g^Iir llfi^I H \c (I 

(15) Those tools and evil-doers, whose Jiiana has beeu 
auniiiilatcd by Maya, they, being inspired by an ungodly 
Reason, do not surrender themselves to Me. 

[The Blessed Lord luis explained that thoio, who are 
engulfed in Maya, forget the Parames'vai’a and are 
destroyed. HE now describes what happen.s i o those, who 
do not do so, but surrender thoinsolve.s to the I aramesvara, 
and worship Him—] 

(16) O Bharata-srestha Arjuna ! four kinds of virtuous 
people worship Me, namely, the ‘arta' (that is, those who 
are affected by disease), the ‘}ijnn.su’-s (that is, those who 
desire to acquire Knowledge), the Uirlharthi—A that is, those 
who entertain the desire for money or ot ler desirable 
things), and tlic ‘jfiariin'~s (that is, those who, although 
they are Accomplished (krlakrtya), as they havt acquired the 
Knowledge of the Paranicsvura, and have no'.hing more to 
gain, yet, worship Mo desirclessly). (17) Out of these, that 
Jnanin, who is an ‘ ekabhakfi’ (that is, one, who, believing 
that there is no other, worships Me alone), and who always 
behaves like a(that is, with a desirobss frame of 
mind), is the liighest in wmrlh. I am most beloved of the 
Jnanin, and the Jhaiun is (most) beloved of Me. (18) All 
these Hevotecs arc ‘ udeira ' (that is, good); hut, (among all 
of them) I liold the Jnanin as equal to Myself; because, 
liaving bc(;omo yuhla-citla (that is, having his Mind united 
(to Me)—•J’raus.) he has become steady in Me, ’Vho Am the 





1030 


GiTA-RAHASYA OR KARMA-YOG A 


?rf i 

H JT^imr II 1% II 

highest Goal (of every one). (19) After many births, the 
Jnaniu, having come to the empirical conclusion that 
‘whatever is, is Vasudeva’, comes and reaches Me. Such a 
‘ mahatma ' (that is, noble soul—Trans.) is rare. 

[One must thoroughly understand the import of the 
statement, made by the Blessed Lord, that by worshipping 
His form, a man acquires the Knowledge of the Parame- 
svara, after He had described that form, from the ijoint of 
view of the Mutable and the Immutable, by saying that, 
G) both Matter and Spirit are His forms, and that, (ii) He 
pervades everything on all sides homogeneously. Every 
one needs to perform worship, whether it is of the 
Perceptible, or of the Imperceptible; but, as, out of these 
two, the worship of the Perceptible is easier, that kind of 
worship has been described here; and that is known as 
"bhakii' (Devotion). Nevertheless, that kind of Devotion, in 
which a man entertains some kind of desire in his heart, 
and worships the Paramesvara for some particular object, 
is inferior; and, even those ‘Knowledge-seekers’ (jijnasus), 
who are devoted with the intention of acquiring the Know¬ 
ledge of the Paramesvara, must be considered as imperfect ; 
because, their knowledge is not yet con:plete, as is apparent 
from their state of being ‘Knowledge-seekers’. But, as all 
these are worshippers, they have all been referred to as ‘uddra 
(that is, ‘going by a good path’), (stanza 18). But, the 
import of the first three stanzas is that, the worship desire- 
lessly offered (Bhag. 1. 7. 10) by those Jnanins, who have 
gone further, that is, who have become Accomplished as a 
result of the Acquisition of Knowledge and for whom, there 
is nothing more left in this world to do or to acquire 
(GL 3. 17-19), is the highest kind of Devotion, The 
Devotion of devotees like Prahbada and Narada falls into 
this excellent category; and that is why the ‘Yoga of 
Devotion’ (bhakti-yoga) has been defined in the Bhagavata 
as the ‘desiroless and endless worship of the Paramesvara’ 
(Bhag. 3. 29. 12; and Gl. Ra. Ch. XIII, p. 572), It may 




GlTA, TRANSLATION & COMMENTARY, CH. VII 1021 

§§ ^%##icTfrRT: 3T«m;^iRJ^rTT: I 

?T ?T fwmR'aR n '?o n 

^Tt ?i7 5TT rfg 

rT^ ?TT^ II ?? II 

safely be said that the words ‘elatbliakli', and ‘ramideva in 
the 17th and 19th staiisas are from the Bhagavata religion; 
nay, even that the above description of devotees is from the 
Bhagavata religion. Because, in the Mahal)brirata, while 
the description of this religion is being given, and after 
the four kinds of devotees have been first descri'oed, we find 
it stated that: 

caturoidlia mama jand bhakfa emin /«’ me smlarn I 
fcNum ekdniina.h ircmlha ije mirtviumiiadevatdh II 
ahani eva (jutis feKatii nirasih Icarmukarinum. h 
Ije ca Si'.dUd Iraijo blialddh phaUikumd hi le. iriLiiih I 
■<(ine cijavnna-dliarmi'i^ tc praiibadditm lu kredhahhaku 

( Ma. Bba. San, b4 L. 33-35 ). 

that is, “ the other three kinds of devotees do not perform 
Actions like the ‘ananijadnimla’ {‘no-other-deiiy’) and the 
‘ekantin’ (solitudinal) devotee, but perform Action with some 
desire or othcrr ; and therefore, they are 'ajavansua', whereas, 
the ‘ekantin "fi are ‘pratibnddha {that is, scient ) )> and su¬ 
perior. And later on the word ‘Vasndeva’ has bren given a 
nretaphysical etymology by saying “ mrvaldmfa Ihivasas ca 
iMHadeva ‘5 talo hi/ ahum ”, that is, “ I am called ‘ Vasudeva 
because I reside (have my vdsa) in everything which is 
created” (San. 341. 40). The Blessed Lord new explains 
why different people worship diderent deities, though there 
is only one Paramesvara everywhere—|, 

(20) Various persons, bein" befooled by their respective 
desires, (such as, fruit in the shape of licavcn etc.), according 
to tlicir respective natures, follow those respective rules (of 
worship), and take to the worship of other (var ous) deities . 
(2)) Whatever form or deity any devotee may desire to 
w'orship with Faith, I steady such his Faitli therein. 



1033 


GiTA-RAHASYA OR KARMA-YOGA 


^ rnn i 

^ ymivt r l r q ^/Ictr: f| h n 

■^cnT^?I1TT »T^T ^irf^rT JTWfq H » 


(32) Then, being full of that Faith, he becomes engaged in 
the *radhana' (that is, the worship) of that deity ; and then 
he obtains those very desired fruits, which have been 
created by^Me Myself. (23) But, this fruit, which (these) 
short-sighted people obtain, is perishable (and not permanent 
like Release) ; those, who worship deities, reach the deities ; 
and those who worship Me, come to Me. 

[It is the common belief that though the Paramesvara is 
the One, Who gives Release, yet, the power to give the 
various things, which are necessary for the ordinary worldly 
life, can be given only by deities ; and that, it is necessary 
to worship the deities for that purpose. How various people 
run after various deities (Gi. 17. 1-6.), after it has thus 
become necessary, according to them, to worship deities, 
some running after Mhasoha, others observing Saturday,, 
after the deity Saturn, etc., has been very nicely described in 
the above stanzas. But, what must be borne in mind here is 
that, though the fruit to be obtained by worshipping various 
deities, may be looked upon as having been given by those 
re.spective d 0 itie.s, yet, ultimately that worship amounts to 
a worship of the Paramesvara (Gi. 9. 33); and, that fruit 
also is essentially given by the Paramesvara (stanza 33 ). 
Not only is this so, but even this idea of wor,shipping the 
various deities is given by the Paramesvara, according to 
the previous destiny of a particular person (stanza 31); 
because, in this world, there is nothing else but the 
Paramesvara. The same doctrine has been laid down in 
the Vedanta-Sutras (3. 3. 38-41), and in the Upanisads 
(Kausi, 3. 8). The utility of tlieso diverse kinds of worship 
is, that after worshipping various deities, the Mind becomes 
steady and pure, and one ultimately acquires the 
Knowledge of the One, and Permanent, Paramesvara. But, 
fruit obtained before the acquisition of that Knowledge is 




GiTA, TRANSLATION & COMMENTARY, OH. VII 1023 

§§ 3Tc?r% i 

tit iRToWigTm»?»n 

^TTfMlTRTm Hi II 

non-perQianent. Therefore, the advice of the Blessed Lord 
to every one is, that ho should not be enmeshed in this 
Hope of Fruit, but should as[>ire to become a ‘ Jhanin ’ 
devotee. As the Blessed Lord gives reward to every one 
according to his own Actions, (Gi. 4. 11), although He does 
everything, and gives ail kinds of rewards, it is also said, 
that Ho essentially does notliing whatsoever Himself 
(Gl. 5. 14). The reader is referred to the furtlicr elucidation 
of this matter at page 369 in Chapter X and at pages 595-6 
in Ghai)tor XIII of the Gita-Rahasya. The Bles,sod Lord 
now furtlier explains what is meant above by saying that 
people run after deitio.s according to their own natural 
inclinations, forgetting that the fruit of the worship of the 
deities is given by the Paramesvara Himself—| 

(24) The ‘abuddhi' (tluit is, fools), not recognising my 
“'/lo/'a’(that is, superior), best of nil, and impeiceptible form, 
look upon Me, Who mu imperceptible, as 1 aving become 
perce])tib!e. (25) As I am enveloped in M>’ Yoga-formed 
Illusion (that is, Maya—Trans.), 1 do not ((learly) appear 
to all (in My own Form). Fools do not Realise, that I am 
Unborn, and Inex'haustible. 

[The device of giving up the Yoga-form, thn,t is, imper¬ 
ceptible form, and taking up the perceptible fc rm (Gl. 4. 6 ; 

7. 15; 9. 7), is called “Maya”, by Vedantists; and when 
the Paramesvara becomes enveloped in this Yoga-Maya, 
He begins to possess a perceptible appearance. In short, 
the import of this stanza is, that the perceptible universe is 
Mayic, or non-permanent; and that, the Paramesvara is 
Real, and I’ermaiient. But the word ‘ nidy^i' in this place, 
and also in other iRaces, is taken by some as ineaning 
‘a super-natural or wonderful power’; and these say that 
this Maya is not Unreal, but is as permai ent as the 
Paramesvara Himsel f. As the form of M aj a has been 



1024 


gIta-rahasya or karma-yoga 


TJTf^rrSr ^ HjTn% iif 5 ^ jt u » 

considered by me at great length in Chapter IX of the 
Gita-Rahasya, I will here only say that the proposition 
that Maya is some wonderfiil and eternal pastime of the 
Paramesvara is acceptable even to the Non-Dualistic 
Vedanta, because, although Maya is an ‘Appearance’, 
created by the senses, yet, as this is done by the senses at 
the direction of the Paramesvara, Maya must be ultimately 
said to be the pastime of the Paramesvara. The only point 
at issue is, whether this Maya is essentially Real, or 
Unreal; and on this point the doctrine of the Gita clearly 
aj)pears from the above stanzas to be the same as that of the 
Non-Dualistic Vedanta, namely that, that Maya expressed 
by Name and Form, by which the Imperceptible 
Paramesvara is considered to have become perceptible— 
whether it is called a super-natural power or anything 
else—is merely an ‘ Appearance ’, or ‘ rnoha created by 
‘ajfiam’ or Ignorance; and that the true essential 
Paramesvara is different from it. Otherwise, there seems 
to be no reason for using the words ‘ ahuddhi' or ‘ mUdha ’ 
in this place. In short, Maya is not Real, and the 
Paramesvara alone is Real, and the Gita says that, being 
confused by this Maya, people run after various deitie.s. 

In the Brhadaranyakopanisad {Br. 1. 4. 10), there is a 
similar statement; and it is stated there that those persons 
who, not recognising that the Atman and the Brahman are 
one and the same thing, run after various deities, 
with a distinguishing mind are the ‘ animals of the 
gods ', that is to say, just as men benefit from cows 
and other animals, so do these deities benefit from these 
ignorant devotees, and that these devotees do not obtain 
Release. So far, the Blessed Lord has given a description 
of those, who being fooled by Maya, worship diverse deities, 
with a distinguishing mind. HE now explains how one 
escapes from this Maya—] 

(26) I know all bhTita-s (that is, created beings), (who 

existed, or exist, or will be) in the past, present, and future ; 



GlTA, TRANSLATION & COMMENTARY, OH. VII 1035 


MTT?T I 

^ ^'?rT qtrm W W 

r^rT»TrT iRq I 

^ jtt ii ii 

§§ ^«jJ7?:onfr^T?nTrJTn^ ?irn'rfT ^ I 

H cTTsTf: ^r^*r='^rr4 ^ ^r%5y»? II II 
JTT ^ ^ 1%: \ 

sr^raT^T^SW TIT H T%|^tT7%cT^: II ^c II 

but, O Arjuna, none know Me; (27) because, 0 Bliarata, all 
created beings are steeped in ignorance in tliis world, as a 
result of the confusion created by the pair s of Opposites 
(such as, pain and liappincss etc.) arising, O Parantapa, from 
Desire and Hate. (38) But, the virtuous people, whose sin 
is e.vhaustcd, become fixed in purpose, esca])ing from the 
ignorance created by the pairs of Opposites (of pain and 
happiness etc.), and worship Me. 

[The Blessed Lord now describes the state of these people 
after they have thus become free from Maya—j 

(29) All those, who (thus) taking shelter i i Me, attempt 
to escape from jaramarana (that is from the cycle of re-bii ths) 
Realise what (all) Brahman, (all) Absolute Self, and all Karma 
(is). (30) Those, who know Me, along with the adhibhuta, the 
adhtdaiva, and the adhiyajfia (that is, who kmw that I am all 
that), such (being) yukta-citta (that is, Mind-united with 
Me—Trans.), Know Me, even at the time of death. 

[See tho explanation given in the next chapter of the 
words adhi/dtrna, adhibfudu, adhidaiva, and adhiyajna. The 
words even at the time of death ” in the last stanza have 
referen(;e to the doctrine of tho Dharma-Sastra and of the 
Upanisads that a man has his next birth according to the 
desire which is most prominent in his mind at the moment 
of his dsiath. Nevertheless, the word “ even ” clearly shows 
that, uides.s a man has acquired complete Knowledge of the 
Paramesvara in his lifetime, he cannot iicquire that 



1026 


GiTA-RAHASYA OR KARMA-YOGA 


^ 

in*Tf^ 1^1*141^11 

^TH^frswni: II ^ ti 


Knowledge right at the moment of death (See Gi. 2. 72). 
A further explanation has been given in the next chapter. 
It may be said that the next chapter has been introduced by 
the words ' adkibhuta etc., in this stanza,] 


Thus ends the seventh chapter entitled Jnana-Vijnana 
Yoga in the dialogue between Sri Krsna and Arjuna on the 
Yoga included in the Science of the Braliman (that is, the 
Karma-Yoga) in the Upanisad sung (that is, told) by the 
Blessed Lord, 



CHAPTER YIII, 

[ The explanation of the Jnana and Vijfian i included in 
the Karnia-Yoga in continued in this chapter, and after first 
explaining the nicaning of the various Jorms of the 
Paraniesviira, such as, Braliiiian, adhyaima, karma, adhi- 
h/iiila, adluilaira, and adhiyajm, ineiitioncd at the end of the 
last chapter, the inner import thereof is explained. But, 
as this cxidanation has been given merely by defining 
those several worlds, that is to say, in an extnmely concise 
way, it is necessary to give a, somewhat exhaustive ex¬ 
planation of this subject in this annotaticn. Different 
people form different ideas in dilferent ways about the 
creator (jf the universe, on looking at the external universe. 
Some say that all things, which (sxist in the world, are only 
evolutes of the live primordial Elements fma'wbhuluj, and 
that there is no other Original Principle, except these five 
primordial Elements. 'L'hci'c are others, who maintain that 
all this world has been created from a Yajha as stated in 
the fourth, chapter of the Gita; and that, therefore, the 
Paraniesvara is of the form of a yajna-nanlyjna ; and that 
He can bo worshipped only by a Yajna. A tl ird class say 
that the various activities of the world are net carried out 
by the material objects by thoinseives; but that, in eacli of 
them, there is some active (sace/a/iw) deity (oi.'pM/'w.sa), and 
that these deities carry on all these activities; and that, 
therefore, we must worship these deities. For example, the 
act of giving light is performed by the ‘purnsi.' called Sun, 
embodied in the globe, made up of the fi>e primordial 
Elements, which is known as ‘the Sun’; and this piirnsa is 
the subject-matter of worship. A fourth class says, that it is 
not priDper to imagine that there exists in everything, some 
deity, other than the thing itself. Just as the Atman 
exbsts in the body of a man, so does there also exist in 
everything, sijme sultth; form of that very thing, that is to 
say, some subtle force, like the Atman; anc that thing is 
the original and true form of it. B’or instance, they say 
that the live gross primordial Elements have, at their core. 



1028 


GiTA-RAHASYA OR KARMA-YOGA 


the five Fine Elements (fanmalra-s) ; and that in the 
material organs, such as, the hand or the foot, there are 
similar fundamental subtle organs. The Samkhya doctrine 
that each person has a different Atman, and that there are 
innumerable such Atmans, is based on this fourth theory. 
But in this stanza, the Samkhya doctrine seems to be 
included in the udhideha class. These four schools of 
thought are respectively called the udIuhliUta, the adhiyajua, 
the adhidaivata, and the udhyUlmaka. Whenever the prefix 
'adhi' is placed behind any word, it conveys the meaning of 
'tamadhikrtya, 'fadvimyalai, that i.s, ‘in that matter’, or, 
‘embodied in it’. According to this interpretation, ‘adhidai¬ 
vata means ‘the Frinciple existing in many deities’. 
‘adhyaima’ ordinarily moans ‘the science which maintains 
that there is only one Atman pervading everything’; but 
this is the interpretation by way of ‘conclusion drawn’ 
(siddhnnta-paksa) ; that is to say, this is the conclusion 
(aiddhunla) arrived at by the Vedanta-sastra, after con¬ 
sidering the pros and cons of the theory that there are 
numerous Atmans in numerous human beings or things, 
which is the hypothetical position (plirvapaksa). So, 
when the hypothetical position has to be considered, it 
is assumed that the subtle form of the Atman in every¬ 
thing is different, and this is the meaning conveyed by the 
word 'adhyatma' in the present stanza. How one and the 
same exposition becomes diversified into dift'ei-ent classes 
from the adliydtrna, the adhidaivata and the adhibbuta points 
of view, has been made clear in the Mahabharata, by 
giving an example of the organs of a man (See Ma, Bha. 
San. 313 and Asva. 41). The writer of the Mahabharata 
says, that the question of the organs of human beings can 
be considered from three points of view, namely, the 
‘adhibhuta’, the ‘adhyatmaka’ and the ‘adhidaivata’. All 
those things, which are perceivable by these organs, namely, 
that which has to be taken by the hands, that which has to 
be heard by the ears, that which has to be seen by the eyes, 
or that which has to be contemplated by the Mind, all this 
is the ‘adhibhuta’ ; and the subtle capacities of these organs, 
namely, the hands, feet, etc., (according to the Sfiihkhya 





GiTA, TRANSLATION & COMMENTARY, CH. VIII 1029 


system), that is to say, the subtle senses are the ‘adhyatma’s 
of those organs; but when one keeps aside both these points 
of view, and considers the matter from the ‘adhidaivata 
point 'jf view, Indra is said to be the deity of the hands, 
Visnu, of the feet; Mitra, of the anus; Prajapati, of the 
organ of generation ; Agni, of the speech; S irya (Sun), of 
the eyes; the eight cardinal i^oints or Etlier, of the ears; 
water, of the tongue; the earth, of the nose the wind, of 
the skin; the Moon, of the mind; hiiddlii (Reason), of 
Individuation, and purusit (Spirit), of the Reason ; and these 
various deities are said to l)e xierforming tlie various 
functions of these organs. Among the symbols of the form 
of the Brahman, which have been described in the 
Upanisads for purposes of worship, the Mind is described as 
the ailliydtnia symbol, and the Sun or the firmament as the 
‘adhidair</t(i' symbol (Chan. 3. 18. 1 ). It is not that the 
distinction between the ^tdliyhlnhi’ and the '(idiiidaivata’ ha.s 
been made only for the xmrposo of worship. But, in con¬ 
sidering the respective superiority of the orge ns of speech, 
or of seeing, or of hearing, etc., and of Vitality (prurHi), 
the matter is considered once from the Metaphysical 
(adhijatiiia) point of ;view by taking the subtle form of the 
organs of the voice, the eyes, and the ears, and again from 
the Intuitionist ((tdhkhimiln) point of view, taking the 
Agni, the Sun, and Ether, as tlie deities of those organs 
(Br. 1. .5. 21-23 ; Chan. 1. 2, 3 ; KausT, 4. 12, 13). In short, 
the distinction lietween \tdltidumili>\ ‘adhihhMt( \ 'adhyutmn 
etc. has been in vogue since very old times; and the 
question a.s to which of these various idea.s regarding the 
form of tln> I’aramesvara i.s the correct idea, or as to the 
inner import of .such ideas, having ari,sen in those times, 
Yajfiavalkya has told IJddfilaka Aruni in the Brhadaratiya- 
kopanisad (Br. 3. 4), that there is only one Paramatman, 
Which subsists at the core of all created thing,s, all deities, 
ail liilhi/dhiKi, all spheres, all Yajnas, and all bodies what¬ 
soever, and Which makes them unwittingly perform their 
respective! fnncitions. This doctrine of the Tljianisads has 
been accu'ptod in tlie Antaryfimyadhikarana of the Vedanta- 
Sutras (Ve. Su. I. 2. 18-20), where it has been jiroved that 




1030 


GiTA-RAHASYA OR KARMA-YOGA 


I 

§§ 1% ^ I 

3Tf^»irT l> I II 

^ ^‘4 %4fST% f^^TcTTrlTf^: II ^ II 

I 

3T^T ^sr q^:4 ^^r^TRiswRirs^d i 
R^'. II ^ II 

this Principle, which exists at the inner core of everything, 
is not the Prakrti or the Jivatinan of tlie Sarhkhya system, 
hut the Paramatinan. The Blessed Lord now tells Arjuna, 
with reference to this proposition, that there is only one 
Paran^esvara, Who pervades every human body, all created 
beings (as udhihhata), all Yajhas (as udhiijujna), all deities 
{ as adhidamila ), all Karma, and all the subtle (that is, 
Metaphysical) forms of everything; and that the diversity, 
or the various kinds of Knowledge of deities, Yajhas etc. 
is not true Knowledge. The words 'adhihhuta etc., used 
by the Blessed Lord at the end of the seventh chapter, 
create in Arjuna a desire to learn their meaning, and he 
first asks as follows—] 

Arjuna said :—(1) O Purusottama, wliat is that Brahman ?; 
what is adhydtmal ■, what is karma 1 •, what is to be called 
adhibJiutii f; and what is called adhidahala ?; (2) of what 
kind is the adhiyajna 1 and O Madhusudana, Who is (the 
adkidcka) in this Body (that is, dcha —Trans.) ?; and how 
do those, wlio control their senses. Realise You, at the 
moment of their death ? (Tell me this). 

[The words ‘ brahma ’, ‘ adhijatma ’, ‘ karma ’, ‘ adhihhuta ’, 
and ‘ adhiyajna ’ are to be found in the last chapter; but, in 
addition to these, Arjuna has asked something new, namely, 

“ who is the ‘ adhkleha ’ If this is borne in mind, it will 
not be difficult to understand the nreaning of the following 
answer.] 

The Blessed Lord said:—(3) That Element, which is 



GITA, TRANSLATION & COMMENTARY, OH. VIII 1031 


'3Tf^?TirrS^cIT^ ^ II 8 II 

pararna (tliiitis, higher—Tniris. ), (than iiiijTliing else )j, 
and aknaya (this is, immutable), is Brahman ; (and) tlie 
fundamental quality of each and every object itself 
(that is, its SVA-l)Mva) is called ‘ Adhyatma That 
‘ visarga' or ‘creative activity' which crca;es (the move- 
able and immoveable) created things ( from the im¬ 
mutable Brahman) is called Karma. (4) Too kmra (that 
is, ‘ conditioned by Name and Form ’, or ‘ irciishable ’) state 
(of all tilings which have come into existence) is the 
‘ ADHIIHIUTA ’ ,- and the pui u>ia (tlait is, the conscious 
(saceiana) Overlord (adhisthdta), Who exists n all things) is 
the ‘ ADHiDAivAT.A HE, who is called the adhiyajna 
[that is, the Lord (adhipati) of all Yajnas] is Myself, Who 
am (ADiiiDEHA), (that is, am the Installed—'Irans.), in this 
Body, O Most Superior among all embodied beings 1 

ITlid word ' parania' hi the third stani.a is not an 
adjective of Brahma, but oi' ‘(tk»ira\ In Sarhkhya 
philosophy, the imperceptible Prakrti is also called 
‘ akmra ’ (immutable), (Gi. 15. 16). But, the B •ahman of the 
Vedantists is beyond this imiierceptible ar-d immutable 
Prakrti (see stanzas 20 and 31 of this ciapter); and 
therefore, although the word ‘ ak^'ira ' alone is used, it may 
mean either the Samkhya I’rakrti, or the Brahman. In 
order that such a doubt should not arise, the adjective 
'ptiniiiiiid has been placed before the word ‘ alcsora’ in 
defining the word Brahman (Gi. Ua. Chap. IX, pp. 274-277). 

I have explained the word " smthhava ’ as “ ‘ Ihe su btle form ’ 
(mikpna-.'H'arupa) of any and every object ”, following the 
example given above from the Mahabhar rta. In the 
Nasadlyasukta. the visible world is calleci the ‘ vYsTsdi ’ 
(rv'.mv/'/), that is, ‘growth’ of the Purabrahman (Gi. Ra. 
p, 351); and the word ‘ iksfirya ' mu.st he understood hero in 
the same meaning. It is not necessary to interpret the 
word vimr(ja ’ as meaning the ‘ liiii'inifmnja or the Yajnas ’. 
Why this visible world is itself called ‘ Kai ma ’ has been 





1032 


GITA-RAHASYA OE KARMA-YOGA 


explained at p. 362 of Chapter X of the Gita-Rahasya, 
‘ ksara' is the mutable Name-d and Form-ed ‘ Appearance ’ 
of everything created; and, the Immutable Principle 
beyond it, is to be understood as the Brahman. The word 
‘ purusa' includes the ' pu7-um' in the Sun, the Varuna- 
purusa or the deity in water, and other conscious {aacelmm) 
subtle-formed deities, as also the Golden Embryo {hirant/a- 
garbha). The word ‘ adhiyajila ’ has not been defined here by 
the Blessed Ijord; because a detailed description of the 
Yajna has Ween given above in the 3rd and 4th chapters, and 
the Blessed Lord has again later on stated (Gl. 9. 24 ; 5. 29; 
and Ma. Bha. San. 340), that “ I am the Lord and the 
recipient of all Yajnas After having in this way des¬ 
cribed the characteristic features of the ‘ adhijatma ’ etc., the 
Blessed Lord has ultimately said shortly that “(that which 
is called) the ‘ adJiiyajm' is Myself, Who Am in this dehu ”, 
that is to say, that He is the adhiduha as also the adhiyajna 
in the human body. The Samkhyas believe that every 
body has a different Atman {purusa}, and these Atmans are 
innumerable; but this doctrine is not acceptable to 
Vedanta Philosophy, which holds that although there may 
be innumerable bodies, there is only one Atman in all of 
them (Gl. Ra, Ch. VII, p. 225). This very proposition is 
borne out by the sentence “ I am the ndliideha”. Neverthe¬ 
less, the words “ I am ” in this sentence have not been said 
only with reference to the ‘ adhiijdjrKi ’ or the ‘ adhideJia '; and 
their reference to the previous words (idhyalina, etc., is 
patent. Therefore, the sum and substance of the whole 
seems to be:—-take the various Yajnas, take the various 
deities in various things, take the five perishable elemental 
principles, take the subtle forms of substance, take the 
diversity of Atmans, take Brahman, take Karma, or 
take the various bodies of different human beings, I am 
everywhere, that is, there is only one Paramesvara- 
principle in all things. According to some, there is no 
independent description here of the ‘ udhideha ’ form; and 
the ‘ adhideha' has been mentioned by implication in 
giving a definition of the ‘ adhiyajna ’ ; but, I do not 
consider this interpretation as correct. Wherever this 



aITA, TRANSLATION & COMMENTARY, OT I, VIII 1033 


§§ 3T;frT^ ^ TTlir^ I 

w- sr?Tri% ^ ^rm ^^hj: h u 

^ ?T cHti ^iT?:?vrR ?^ji?qT?r i 

fT rr^lrm W cT^T^^fTTRfT*. II II 

subjoct-malLor has been referred to, not only in the Gita, 
but also ill the Upanisads and in the Viidaiita-Sutras, 
(Br. 3. 7; Ye Sii. 1. 2. 30), the embodied Atman has been 
considered side by side with the aii/uhlinld imi the other 
forms of the Paramesvara ; and the doctrine law; been laid 
down, that everywhere there is only one 1 arainatman. 
Besides, as there has been previously asked a fincstion 
about the (tdliid/'lta, it is logical to conclude that that a.spect 
has been mentioned here distiuci ly and not by implication. 
One i,s likely to think at first sight that if all that whiidi 
is, is tlie I’arabrahaian. tlimi, in describing the various 
forms of the I’aralirahimui, such as. the niZ/nb/min etc., it 
was not necessary to consider the i’araltralmiaii also. But, 
as this description of diversity has been addressed to 
people, wliu iire engrosseil in the dilferent kinds of worsliip 
on the basis that tiie Brahman, I ho Atman, tbs deities, the 
Yajhun.'iray ana, etc., are all dilTerent from each other, the 
declaration that “f am all this”, has beei made after 
explaining the characteristics of llic differences arising on 
aeconnt of the different lioliefs of dilferent people. When 
one looks at it from this point of view', no suc .i doubt can 
arise. Tlie Bles.sed Lord has Ihii:; cxiilained this diversity by 
saying that although various distinctions may' he made for 
imrposes of worship, such as, uiUii.bhuta, ibe udliidaifdlii, 
the udhynlina, the udhiyajm, the (nllddcha, etc,, yet, this 
diversity is not real ; aiul that, as a matter of fact, there is 
only one Paramesvara. Who jiervados evirything. 11L 
now gives His reply to the last (luestion of Arj iiia, namely, 
how tlie All-pervading Paramesvara is Realised at the 
moment of death—-J 

(5) And there is no doubt that he who leaves his liody, 
thinking of Me at the moment of death, is nerged in My 
form. (6) O, Kaunteya, flunking of wliatevcr form {Id/Ziva — 
Trans.) a man ultimately leaves bis body, because, helms 



1034 


GlTA-RAHASYA OB KAEMA-YOGA 


JT^?TfqcrfT5frif%*TfiTt's?i^?r^’^*^ n ^ ii 

sada, (that is, for the wliole of his life) been engrossed in 
thinking of that form, that is tlie form (bhdva) in which he is 
(later on) merged. 

[In the fifth stanza, the Blessed Ijord has explained the 
necessity and the result of thinking of the Paramesvara at 
the moment of death; but, that is likely to give rise to the 
misunderstanding, that it will be enough if a person thinks 
of the Paramesvara only at the moment of death. There¬ 
fore, it is stated in the sixth stanza, that whatever is in 
the mind throughout life, does not leave the mind at the 
moment of death; and, the irecesjsity of remembering aird 
worshipping the Paramesvara throughout life, and not only 
at the moment of death, is made clear (Gl, Ea. Ch, X, 
p. 398). When one accepts this propo.sition, it naturally 
follows that those, who worship the l-*arameWara at the 
moment of death are merged in the Paramesvara; and that 
those, who worship other deities at that moment, are 
merged in the other deities (Gi. 7. 23 ; 8. 13 ; and 9. 25); 
because, as has been stated in the Chandogyopanisad, 

“ yatha kratur amdi'nl loke puruso bhamti tathefah pretya 
bhavati ” (Chan. 3. 14. 1), that is, “ a man gets a state after 
death, which is consistent with his ‘ kratu ’ or sa/hkalpa, 
that is, his resolution”. There are similar sentences in 
other Upanisads as in the Ghandogya (Prasna. 3. 10; 
Maitryu. 4. 6). But the Gita now says that unles.s the 
Mind is stooped in one particular aspiration throughout 
life, it is not possible to have that a.spiration during the 
throes of the passing away of life. Therefore, consi,stently 
with the doctrine that it is necessary to meditate on the 
ParameWara ‘ arnaninanfa' that is, throughout life 
(Ve. 8u, 4. 1. 12), the Blessed Lord now tolls Arjiina that—J 

(7) Therefore, think of Me at all times (that is, always), and. 
iight : wlien you have dedicated your Mind and your 
Reason to Me, you will, (notwithstanding tliat }mu have 
fought), undoubtedly come and be merged in Me. 





GITA, TRANSLATION & COMMENTARY, CH. VIII 1035 


5^q fqsq qrv/igi^JFTTiq; ii <: ii 

§§ qrf^ 4.< i i 

vrTfTTTqf^riT^qHT^qqoT rUT^; q^:^?rrrl II % II 
qqroi^T^ JTJT^lG=q^ iTqrqr 3q?TT %q i 

qropRiq^q ^ qt 3^q#r^ f^qq; n^oii 

(8) O Partliii! when a man, witli the liclp of pni.ctice, steadies 
his Alind, without letting it stray elsewhere, and meditates 
on the Highest Spirit, he goes and is merged in tBat Spirit. 

[Thosu,who maintain that according the Baagavadgita, 
one must give up worldly lil'o and take to Dev( tion, should 
pay attention to the proposition laid dt)wn in the seventh 
stanza. It is uiujuestionable tliat Release is obtained hy 
Devotion combined wdth the Knowledge of the 
Paraniosvara; and that, in order to possess that frame of 
mind at the moment of death, it is necessary ti' have that 
practice throughout life. Hut, it is not neccs.'-ary, accord¬ 
ing to the Gita, for this purpose, to give \i)) Vetion. On 
the other hand, it is the proposition of the Glta-science, 
that even the Devotee of the Blessed Lord must desirelessly 
perform all Actions, which f.ill to his lot, accorling to the 
duties allocated to him; and tlu! same meaning has been 
conveyed by the words “ continually meditate mi Me, and 
fight ”. The Blessed Lord now describes how the Karma- 
Yogin, who desirules.sly performs Action throughout life, 
with the idea of dedicating it to the Peramesvara, 
meditates on the effulgent Higliest Bpirit at the moment of 
deatli—J 

(9) That (man), wlio meditates ou tlie Punnsa, Who is the 
/<mn'(that is, omniscient), Who is the Ancient, tlic All-ruler, 
tlie Miimtor-than-tlic-atom, tlic dhatii (that is, liie supporter, 
or the doer) of everything. Whose form is unimaginable, and 
Who is as brillinut as tlie Bun beyond tl e darkness, 

(10) nflcr 'toadying his Mind by force of Yoga i in tlie shape 
of control jf the senses), and being imbued with Devotion, 
and properly keeping the prdna (that is, liic Vital breath—• 



1036 


GiTA-RAHASYA OR KARMA-YOGA 


5I^I-rT T^^cT ^cHTt ^'tcTTPTT: I 
^r^^cft cT# q? ^irgOT U U II 

ijw?TfiiTT?irssrrr^: Jifarmf^'-trcTr ^■riT>^Ti:oiT»i: ii ^*5 ii 
ggr 5iTr?T?*Triig^JT?^ i 
Zf; snnm ^ ^rrm tT^wf irm*! ii ii 

Trans.) between the two eye-brows at the moment of death, 
such (a man)^ goes and is merged in that effulgent Highest 
Spirit. (11) I shall briefly describe to you that pada, (that is, 
the OM-formed Brahman), which is called 'aksara by the 
vedavii-s (that is, by those, who know the Vedas—Trans.) ; 
which, Yatins enter after having become vUardga (that is, 
free from love—Trans.), and desiring which, they observe 
the rules laid down for brahmacarin-%. (12) Controlling 
all the openings (in the shape of the organs), and taking the 
life*breath into the head, after having controlled the Mind 
in the heart, and becoming steady in the Yoga of Mental 
Absorption, (13) and meditating on 'OM', the one-worded 
form of the Brahman, and thinking of Me, who gives up his 
body, he reaches a superlative state. 

[ The description of the form of the Paramesvara in 
stanzas 9 to 11, has been borrowed from the TJpanisads. 
The words 'anoraniyan in the 9th stanza, as also the last 
<iuarter of that stanza is from the Svetasvatara Upanisad 
{Sve. 3, 8 and 9); and the first quarter of stanza 11, according 
to its implication, and the second quarter of it, literally, are 
from the Kathopanisad { Katha. 2. 15 ). In the Katho- 
panisad, the words 'om ilyelat' have been clearly expressed 
after the words “ tut te padaw saJtigrahemi bravtmi ”, 
According to this, the words 'aksara' and 'pada', in the 
eleventh stanza, must be taken to mean “the Brahman in 
the shape of the word ‘OM’ ”, or “the word ‘OM’ ” ; and it is 
absolutely clear from stanza 13, that the worship of the 
OM~kara is meant there (see, Prasna. 5). Nevertheless, it 
cannot be said that the Blessed Lord did not mean “the 
imperishable Brahman” by the word‘OM’, and “the highest 





GiTA, ^rRANSLATION & COMM ENTARY, OE. VIII 1037 

§§ ^rTrT m TTT I 

’TT»4 •> 

J7T5^ 5?!^ I 

^cgcrf^rT JT^TrJTTT. JlfTT* « H 

sTra^'pi’TTift^T: I 

55T3T?fr ^ TlraH n i> 

state”, by the word ‘p(uhi-, because, it can be said J;hat the 
letter 'om ' is a letter from the alphabet; and also that it is 
imperishable, as being the symbol of the Brahnan (see, 
stanza 21 later on); that is why, I have retained the double- 
meaninged words \ikMim' and '’pada' from the original 
Sanskrit in rny translation of stanza 11. Thu Blessed 
Lord now further d83cri!)e8 the superlative state, which is 
reached by this worship—] 

(14) OPartlia ! whoever, witli a feeling thatlh(.:re is none 
other than Me, ever and continually thinks of Vie, to that 
nitya-yukta (tliat is, perpetually steeped-in-Yoga), (Karma-) 
Yogiu, becoming merged in Me, is easy. (15) After having 
come and become merged in Me, that mahatnia (that is, noble 
sold—Trans.), who has attained the highest perfection, does 
not get re-birth, which is the home of unhappiness and 
non-permanent. (16) O Arjuna ! there is bound to be a 
punaravarlana (that is, a return) from even the sphere of 
the Brahman and other spheres (such as, heaven etc.), (to 
this world sometime or other) ; but, O son of Kunti! after 
having become merged in Me, there is no re-birth. 

[The word ‘ punardvartnna' in the 16th stanza means 
‘coming back to the earth after one’s merit is over’ (See Gi. 

9. 21; Ma. Bha. Yana, 260). Even if a man lasaches the 
spheres of Indra, Sruya, nay, even of the Brahman, by such 
ritual as Yajha, or the worshiir of the deities, or the recital 
of the Vedas, yet, as soon as the merit which he had 
acquired (before death) is exhausted, he has to return to 
this world (Be. 4. 4. 6); or at any rate, it becomes necessary 
for him to fall into the cycle of re-hirth,s, after tht sphere 



1038 


gIta-rahasya or karma-yoga 


§§ 3§rofr i 

^?rTIT^ clt^n^^rRW^ « X< » 

of the Brahman has ceased to exist; therefore, all these 
states are of a lower order; and as there is no re-birth after 
the Realisation of the Paramesvara, that state is the 
highest: such is the import of the 16th stanza ( See 
Gl. 9. 20,,31). In support of the statement that even the 
sphere of the Brahman is non-permanent, the Blessed Lord 
now explains how the entire cosmos, including the sphere 
of the Brahman, is created and destroyed over and over 
again—] 

(17) Those persons, who (essentially) understand what 
is meant by ‘day’ and ‘night’, realise that the day of 
Brahmadeva is made up of a thousand {maha-) Yugas (each 
mahayuga being made up of the four Yuga periods called 
Krta, Treta, Dvapara, and Kali respectively), and that one 
thousand (similar) Yugas make one night (of his). 

[This stanza has appeared in the Gita without there being 
a previous explanation of the calculation of a Yuga; 
and it has to be understood by reference to such a table, 
which is to be found elsewhere. This table, as also this 
stanza from the Gita, are to be found in the Bharata (San, 
231. 31), and in the Manu-Smrti (Manu. 1. 73); and the 
same description has been given in the Nirukta of Yaska 
(Nirukta, 14, 9). The day of Brahmadeva is also known 
as a 'ladpa'. The word '<n»j(ikla, used in the next stanza, 
means the avijakta (that is, imperceptible) Prakrti of 
Sarhkhya philosophy, and not the Parabrahman ; because, 
it is clearly stated later on in the 20th stanza, that the 
Imperceptible in the form of the Brahman, is something 
beyond the ‘avijakta described in this stanza. How the 
Perceptible {vijakla) universe springs from the Imperceptible, 
as also the method showing how the ‘kaipa' has to be compu¬ 
ted, has been given at p. 264 in Chapter VIII of the Gita- 
Rahasya, to which the reader is referred. ] 

(1 8) When this day (of Brahmadeva) shirts, all perceptible 



GITA, TEANSLATION & COMMENTARY, CH VIII 1039 


^ i 

< i s ^ 4 T^ S'^^ t qT'4 II \% 11 

§§ ’flT^nS^^nSSsq^o^^TrHSTTcnr. I 

^ 5T II ^O I 

3Te^PfjTS^ qw I 

q sntrq 5T qni »m ii H n 

3^: ^ irr; 3151? ^T^f?n i 

?rfqn?rT5?5!irf^ tpn^ ^ ricn? ii ii 

{objects) lire created out of the Imperceptible ^ and when 
(his) night starts, (they) become dissolved into the above- 
mentioned Imperceptible. (19) This collecticn of beings, 
coming (thus) to birth again and again, is dissolved when the 
night starts (as though put into a machine), being *avasa’ 
(that is, whether they personally wish it or not); and O 
Partha ! (it) comes to birth (again) when the day starts. 

[ That is to say, although a man may ha^'e acquired a 
permaiiont residence in the sphere of the Br ihman, as a 
result of his meritorious Actions, yet, as even Re Brahma- 
loka is destroyed when Jlestruction {pralaija) starts, created 
beings cannot escape coming to l)irth again at the begin¬ 
ning of a new Kalpa. The Blessed Lord now explains the 
only way in which this can be avoided—] 

(20) But, the other eternal Imperceptible, which is 
beyond the Imperceptible mentioned above, which does not 
come to an end even if all created things come to an end, 
(21) that Imperceptible, which is (also) called ‘ aksara' which 
is said to be the parama (that is, the most excellent or the 
ultimate) state, (and) having reached which, tliere is no return 
(to birth), that, indeed is My super-excellent s]ihere. (22) O 
Partha! that para (that is, highest) Spirit, within Which all 
created beings are contained, and by Which all this has been 
enclosed or pervaded, can be reached only by Devotion, 
which is ananya (that is, to-none-other—Trans ,). 

(The 30th and 31st stanzas make togethijr only one 
sentence. The word ‘ avijakta' in the 20th st inza, has first 
been applied to the Samkliya Prakrti, tha ; is, to the 




1040 


GlTA-RAHASYA OR KARMA-YOGA 


snrmr ^ ^ ii n 

Imperceptible mentioned in the 18th stanza; and later on, 
the same word has been applied to the Parabrahman, 
Which is beyond the Sarhkhya Prakrti; and it has been 
stated in the 31st stanza that this second Imperceptible is 
also called ‘ akmru ’ (that is, the Immutable); similarly, in 
the beginning of this chapter, there is the phrase “ akmravi 
brahtm paramam ”, (that is, “ the immutable highest 
Brahman*” ; c/., 8. 3—'Trans.). In short, the word ‘ akmra ’ 
(Immutable) like the word ‘ avyakta ’ (Imperceptible ) 

has been used in two meanings in the Gita; it is not 
that the Sarhkhya Prakrti alone is imperceptible and 
immutable, but the Parame.svara or the Brahman, Which 
“ is not destroyed, even when ail created things are 
destroyed” is also immutable and imperceptible. This 
clearly shows that the word ‘ uksam \ used in giving the 
characteristics of the “ Purusottama ” in Chapter XV, 
where it is stated that He, is beyond the ksam (mutable) 
and the aksara (immutable), has been used with reference 
to the Sarhkhya Prakrti (see, Gi. 15. 16-18). In short, it 
must be borne in mind that, both the adjectives ‘ avyakid ’ 
and ‘ akmra ’ have been used in the Gita, sometimes with 
reference to the Sarhkhya Prakrti, aird sometimes witli 
reference to the Parabrahman beyond this Prakrti (Gi. Ra. 
pp. 275-277). The form of the Parabrahman, which is beyoird 
the Perceptible and the Imperceptible has been referred 
to in the ninth chapter of the Gita-Rahasya, to which the 
reader is referred. So far, there has been a description of 
the ‘ aksara brahma ’ (Immutable Brahman), that is, of the 
goal, having reached which, a man escapes from the 
necessity of re-birth. The Blessed Lord now describes the 
difference, from the point of view of time of death and goal 
reached, between those for whom there is no ‘ andvr/li ’, that 
is, no coming back after death, and those for whom there 
is ‘ Twrtti ’, that is, those who have to come back from 
heaven and take birth again—] 

(23) I shall now mention to you, O Bharatasrestha 1 the 



GITA, TRANSLATION & COMMENTARY, C^H, VIII 1041 


’miRTr i 

?T 5 r smirTT »r«?i 5 cr 531 ^r: n n 

^»TT TTI^^rTVJT fjcoi; qnjTT^T ?%aTT5i;n3 I 
?rsf JRC31 1 ^ ^ ^ II n 

JTrn HiTrT: I 

tr^^TT ^r?isn^T^r?nnssgr^^ 5^: n 11 

time of clcalli, having died wlien, the (Karma-) Yogins do not 
come back (to birtli in tliis worhl); and (the time of death 
having died) when, they come again. (24) 1 he Fire, jiyo/f/j 
(that is, llames), daytime, tlic bright iialf (of the month), and 
the six montlis of tlie utlarayana (that is, northern solstice— 
Trans.), those men, knowers of Brahman, who die in these, 
attain the Brahman after death (and do net come back). 
(25) (Fire), smoke, night, tlio dark half (of tlie month), and 
the six months of the daksimyana (that is, the southern 
solstice—Trans.), the (Karma-) Yogin (who dies) in these, 
going to the light of the Moon, (that is, the sphere of the 
Moon), returns (after his acquired merit is over . (26) In this 
way, the white and the black (that is, the light and tne dark) 
have been considered the two ‘kaavutc gatl (that is, the 
eternal paths) of tlie world ; going by one path., one does not 
return ; and by tlie other path, one returns. 

[These two paths aro known in the Upani iads by the 
names ‘ deiduumi ’ (bright half) and ‘ pifrydwt (dark half), 
or the ' urcinidi-mUryd' and the ' dlmmradi-ihurya'\ and 
these paths have been described even in the Rg-Veda. 
When fire is set to the dead body of a man, that is, from 
fire itself, both these paths commence ; therefi re, the word 
‘ Fire ’ must be taken as implied from the prec ious stanza 
into the vSth stanza. As the only object of the 35th stanza 
is to show the difference between the path described in the 
previous stanza and the second path, the wor 1 ‘ Fire ’ has 
not been repeated in it. A further explanation about this 
matter has been given towards the end of Chai ter X of the 




1042 


GITA-RAHASYA OR KARMA-YOGA 


§§ ^ qT«J ^3TR^ gEim ^7^ I 

cTWr^if^ ^5 II II 

^ SlfdaH I 

3Tr^rf^ cTr^W? II II 

Gita-RaliaBya (pp. 408 to 412), to which the reader is 
referred, and which will clearly explain the import of this 
stanza. The Blessed Lord now explains the benefit of 
realising the principle underlying these two paths—] 

(27) O Parttia ! no (Kanna-) Yogin, who (essentially) 
understands these two siil-s (that is, paths) is overcome by 
Ignorance; therefore, O Arjuna 1 become (Karma-) Yoga- 
yukta at all times. (28) Understanding this (principle# 
which has been explained above), the (Karma-) Yogin 
transcends the fruit in the shape of merit mentioned in the 
Vedas, in the Yajnas, for austerity, and for charity, and 
reaches the highest state, which lies beyond, 

(It is clear that the man, who has understood the 
principle underlying these two paths, namely, the devununa 
and the pitpjana, that is, who has understood that, by going 
by the devaijana path, he does not incur re-birth, and that 
the pitTijdya path, though productive of heaven, is, yet, not 
productive of Release, will, of course, choose that path out 
of the two, which is truly beneficial to him ; and will not 
ignorantly follow the path, which is of a lower order ; and 
it is to convey this idea that the words, “one who 
(essentially) understands these two srti-s, that is, paths ” 
have been used in the former stanza. These stanzas mean 
that the Karmu-Yogin understands which path, out of the 
devayanu and the pitrymia leads whore; and that he, 
therefore, naturally goes along that path, which is the 
better one, and acquires Release, avoiding the trips to and 
from heaven ; and in the 27th stanza, the Blessed Lord has 
advised Arjuna to act accordingly.) 






GiTA, TRANSLATION & COMMENTARY, (JH. VIII 1043 


irqfwg sjsTfgr^n^jf ?rf»RTT# 
srsjTfSwrw*» c ii 

Thus ends the eighth chapter entitled Aksiiara-Brahma 
Yoga in the dialogue between Sri Krspa and Arjuna on the 
Yoga included in the Science of the Brahman, (that is, on the 
Karma-Yoga) in the Upanisad sung (that is, told) by the 
Blessed Lord. 





%fr»TiT^[f^=5r I 

^ finrR^'t<T »I n 

CHAPTER IX. 

[In order to show how a man, by practising the Karma- 
Yoga, acquires peace of mind or Release as a result of his 
acquiring ^full Knowledge of the Paramesvara, an 
exposition of Jnana (Spiritual Knowledge) and Vijnana 
(empirical Knowledge) has been started in Chapter VII; and 
the form of the immutable and imperceptible Spirit has 
been described ; and the Blessed Lord has explained in the 
last chapter how the worship of theOM-kara (omkaropasana) 
should be performed at the moment of the close of life, after 
entering into mental absorption according to the 
PStanjala-Yoga, in order that that form of the Paramesvara 
should remain fixed in the mind even at the moment of 
death. But, acquiring the Knowledge of the immutable 
Brahman is in itself difficult; and if, in addition to that, 
mental absorption is prescribed as an essential, this path of 
life will have to be given up by ordinaiy people ! Bearing 
this difficulty in mind, the Blessed Lord now explains a 
royal road, by following which the Knowledge of the 
Paramesvara will become easy for everybody. This path is 
called the Path of Devotion {hhukfhnarga); and I have fully 
discussed that path in Chapter XIII of the Gita-Rahasya. 
In this path, the form of the Paramesvara can be realised 
by means of love, and is vijakfa, that is, actually perceptible; 
and the 9th, 10th, 11th, and 12th chapters contain an 
exhaustive description of that perceptible form. Neverthe¬ 
less, it must not be forgotten that this Path of Devotion is 
not something independent, but a part of the Jnana and 
Vijnana necessary for acquiring the Ktinna-Yoga, of which 
a description was started in Chapter VII; and this 
chapter has been opened as being a part of the previous 
exposition of Jnana and Vijnana]. 

The Blessed Lord said:—(1) Now, as you are not a 



GITA, TRANSLATION & COMMENTARY, CH. IX 1045 


TnT?j?i i 

STr^r^TRJm 1' I' 

3>m^5rr; 5^ qi:?(Ttr i 

m o ^ i> 

fault-finder, I will expound to you the mDst mysterious 
Spiritual Knowledge, coupled with empirical Knowledge, by 
knowing which, you will become free from sin (to which, 
listen). (2) This (Knowledge) is the king, .(that is, the 
most superior) of all mysteries, it is a rajavidva [that is, the 
most superior science (vidyd) of all], it is lioly, excellent, 
actually realisable, easy to observe, consistent with religion, 
and inexhaustible. (3) Those persons, O Paiantapa ! who 
do not put faith in this religion, return to the path of worldly 
life, circumscribed by death, instead of coming to Me (tliat 
is, they do not attain Release). 

[The meanings of the word.s ‘rujuvidtja ‘ rdjtguhya ' and 
' prut ijakmvaga mu' in tho second stanza, have been fully 
considered in Chapter Xfll of tho Gitfi-Rahasya, at pp, 574 
to 583, to which the reader is referred. The means of 
attaining to the Paramosvara are referred to a.-s ' vidyd ’ in 
the Upanisads; and it was usual to keep these Vidyas 
clothed in mystery. It is said here that the bhtiktimarga 
(that is, the Path of Devotion, or the worship of the 
Perceptible) is a Vidya, which is the king or the most 
superior of these mysterious Vidyas, and also that this 
religion, being something which is actually visible to the 
eyes, is easy to follow. Neverthole.ss, as this Yoga has 
come into vogue by the tradition uf Iksvaku and the other 
kings (Gi. 4. 3), it may also be said to he the path followed 
by Rajas or eminent persons, and to be a ' rujrmdgu’ also 
in that sense. Whichever ineaning is taken, it is quite 
clear that this stanza does not refer to the Knowledge of 
the immutahle or the imperceptible Brahman; and that the 
word ' rUjavidija ' indicates in this place the Path of 
Devotion. Having in this way praised this path of life, to 
start witli, the Blessed Lord now describes it at ength—] 



1046 


GiTA-RAHASYA OR KARMA-YOGA 


§§ ^ ^4|<^=qTf5qfSsTr I 

iTr^‘^jn% 51 ^«Wcrf^«rrT; u 8 ii 


5T ^ TTr^'-OTR 5|^R ^R5I % I 

TIITTSSrITT 53^5R*. 6 « 


?I?JTSS^?Tf^5!JrfT ^Tsfsmt JT^ I 

cT^T »J5rn% JTr^'^jfTrgqi^TTg II ^ II 


(4) 1 hjive occupied or pervaded this universe by My 
imperceptible form. All created beings are in Me, I am not 
in them ; (5) and at the same time, all created beings are 
not in Me 1 See this My divine Action or power of Yoga! 
My Atman, which created (these) created things, although 
it is embodied in the created things, (yet,) is not in them ; (6) 
just as, the great vayu (atmosphere), which reaches every¬ 
where, is perpetually in space, so are all created things in 
Me, this believe. 

[This apparent contradiction in terms results from the 
Paramesvara being qualityless as also qualityful (see my 
commentary on stanza 12 of Chapter VII of the Gita, as also 
Gita-Rahasya, Chapter IX, pp. 281, 285, 286, and 287). Hav¬ 
ing in this way excited the curiosity of Arjuna, by giving 
him a surprising description of His own form, the Blessed 
Lord now again describes here how the universe is created 
from Him, and which His perceptible forms are, which 
(descriptions) are slightly different from those given above 
in Chapters VII and VIIT of the Gita (Gi. 7. 4-18 ; 8. 17-20). 
Although the word ‘ yoga ’ is interpreted as meaning some 
supernatural power or device, yet, this Yoga or device for 
transforming the Imperceptible into the Perceptible is 
nothing but Maya, as has been proved in my commentary 
on Gita 7. 25, and in Chapter IX of the Gita-Rahasya 
(pp. 325 to 330). As this Yoga is very easy for the 
Paramesvara, nay even His slave, He is referred to as the 
‘ Lord of Yoga ’ (yogesvara), (Gi. 18. 75). The Blessed Lord 
now explains how the transformations of the universe are 
carried on by the power of this Yoga—] 







GlTA, TRANSLATION & COMMENTARY, OH. IX 1047 


§§ sT^fir ^in-cT i 

II ^ II 

fln^nR sr: 5^; i 
^irwrofTTR ^<?iRc|4i ii c n 

R ^ Rr cTTTR ^RTfor R^'iPT I 

^ ii \ ii 

jRrrGTSR^oT 5T^r% ; i 

t^RTSaR oIRfgqficid'H II ?0 11 

(7) At the end of a kalpa, O Kuuntcya ! a’l created beings 
are merged into My Prakrti; and in the beginning of a kalpa, 
(that is, at the beginning of the day of Rrahmadeva), I 
Myself create them again. (8) Taking in hand My own Prakrti, 
1 create again and again all this collection of created beings, 
which has become avaka (tliat is, dependciit, or, in other 
words, bound by its respective Karma) as a result of its 
having become subject to (that) Prakrti. (9) (But) O 
Dhanafijaya 1 as I am not attached to this My Action (of 
creating the universe), and as I live like an ‘udasin’ (that 
is, apathetically—'l'rans.), these Actions <:1( not bind Me. 
(10) Becoming the adhyakm (that is. Superintendent— 
Trans.), I cause Prakrti to give birth to the moveable and 
immoveable universe. By reason of this, O Kaunteya! the 
make and break of this world is going on. 

[It has been stated in the previous chapter that the 
perceptible universe begins to come to birth out of the im¬ 
perceptible Prakrti, when the day of Brahm xdeva (that is, 
the for/joa) starts (8.18); Imt, as the Paramcivara gives to 
every one a good or bad birth according to his own Karma, 
the Blessed Lord has explained here that He Himself is 
untouched by (that Is, is not responsible for) this Karma. 

In a scientific exposition, all these principles are stated in 
one and the same place ; but as the catecbismal system has 
been .adoxited in the Gita, the same suoject has been dealt 
with partly in one jdace and partly in an Ahor place, as 
occasion arose. Some commentators have raised a point 





1048 


GiTA-RAHASYA OB KARMA-YOGA 


§§ 3Ter3TRfTrT w cTg?TTf^m»3[ i 

trt M NR^l^w cTt ?TJT l( \\ U 

JTT^T^T JTT^I«+>HI«rr ifmiTRI f^%rn=T: l 

%?r STfrfi JTTT^ f^rir: w » 

§§ IT^rflTR^g JTf iTT' 4 %€f srfrf^imrTT*. 1 

vr3T?r^?^»fRT ITTf^rr ^^cTTf^rre^m 0 i> 

^rTrT ^t^cTT W 37rl?cm g g^rfi: I 

ITT ii ?a n 

that the words “jagad viparivarUite." used in the 10th stanza 
have reference to the Vivartavada (See p. 331 in Chap. IX 
of the Gita-Rahasya—Trans.). But I do not think that 
the word ‘ viparimrtate, ’ means anything more than that 
“the make and break of this world is going on ” or, that 
“the Perceptible is transformed into the Imperceptible, and 
the Imperceptible re-transformed into the Perceptible ”; 
and even the Sarhkarabhasya does not say that anything 
more is meant. How a man becomes ‘ avasa' (that is, 
dependent), as a result of Karma, has been explained in 
Chapter X of the Glta-Rahasya, to which the reader is 
referred—] 

(11) Those foolish people, who do not realise my parama 
(that is, super-excellent—Trans.) form, namely, that I am the 
Highest Isvara of all created beings, do not pay respect to 
Me, Who have taken a human form, (considering Me to be 
human-formed). (12) Their hopes are futile; (their) 
Actions, useless; (their) Knowledge, barren; (their) 
Mind misguided; and they have given shelter to a devilish 
and ungodly temperament, based on Ignorance. 

[ This is the description of the ungodly person ; now the 
Blessed Lord describes the godly [dtdvl) nature—] 

(13) But, O Partha! those mahatma-s (that is, noble 
souls—Tranai..),,,who have taken shelter in a godly nature 
(/ro<4,ri/), realise ahd'Tecognise (that) Me, Who am the supreme 
inexhaustible source of all created beings; and believing that 
there is no one else, worship Me; (14) and being industrious. 



GITA, TRANSLATION & COMMENTARY, C H, IX 1049 


JTigqra^ > 

§§ 3T^ ^ ■• =?2|i3rs^JT54t’Tvifl; i 

TF^Ts^n^cns^jr^rn^ ^tth; »u 

fixed of purpose, and continually steeped in Yoga, they 
continually praise Me and bow to Me, and worsliip Me with 
devotion. (15) Similarly, others worship Me, Who am 
sarvatoniukha (that is, all-lacing—Trans.), looking* at Me on 
the basis of ‘ekatva (that is, synthetically ), or, oa the basis of 
‘prthaktva! (that is, analytically), or in many otl er ways, by 
means of a Jnana-yajrla (that is, sacrifice by Knowledge— 
Trans.) 

[The brief description given hereof people of godly and 
ungodly natures has been amplified in Chapter XVI. As 
has been explained before, a Jnanu-yajha means, ‘ compre¬ 
hending the form of the Paramos vara by Jnana 
(Knowledge), and thereby acquiring Release (See my 
commentary of Gi. 4. 33). But, this Knowledge of the 
Paramesvara can also be of different kinds, suclr as dualistic, 
non-dualistic, etc.; and therefore, the Jhana-yajfia, may 
also be of many kinds; and stanza 15 says that, 
although the Jhana-yajha may thus be of mrny kinds, 
yet, in as much as the Paramesvara is All-facing 
ivisva/omukha), He becomes the recipient of all these 
Yajuas. It is clear from the words “on the basis of ekatva”, 
and “on the basis of prlhak/ni', that these ideas were 
ancient, though the diuita (Dualistic), adcaila (non-dualis¬ 
tic), and visistadnaita (qualified monistic) systems are 
modern. The Blessed Lord now further exhaustively deals 
with the one-nees and diversity of the Paramesvara referred 
to in this stanza, and also explains how the one-uess exists 
in the diversity—] 

(16) kralu (that is, the Yajha .according to the Srutis) is 
Myself; Yujna (that is, the Yajua according to i.he Snirtis) 
is Myself; svadJid (that is, the food offered to one s ancestors 




1050 


GiTA-RAHASYA OR KARMA-YOGA 


^STlRTt ITR!T ■• I 

^ qf^STRtfTT ^ W II 

Jn^PTclf srg: W# ^TTOT ^icj; i 

n^tr** ^«rR II ?c II 

ill the death-anniversary ceremony) is Myself; ausadha 
(that is, the food prepared from vegetables for the purposes 
ofaYajna) is Myself; the hjanns (chanted while offering 
sacrifice into^ the Yajna) are Myself; 1 (am) the clarified 
butter, I (am) the Fire; and, the offering, which is thrown 
into the Fire, is also Myself. 

[The words ‘kralu and 'yajna were originally synony¬ 
mous ; but, though the word 'yajna acquired later on a 
wider significance, by being applied to the worship of the 
household deities, the worship of the household Fire, the 
feeding of guests, breath-control, reciting prayers, and 
performing other ritual, the meaning of the word ‘ leralu ' 
has not been extended. The Yajnas, such as the asvamedha, 
etc., to which this word had been applied according to the 
Sruti religion, were the only Yajnas, which were even 
later on signified by it. It is, therefore, stated in the 
Saihkarabhasya that the word‘/rra/vi ’ in this place should 
be taken to mean the Yajna according to the Srutis, and 
that the word ‘ Yajna ’ should lie taken to mean the Yajnas 
according to the Smrtis; and the same meaning has been 
given by me above; because, if this distinction is not made, 
the words 'kralu' and 'yajna' will become synonymous, 
and the stanza will become liable to the fault of containing 
a meaningless I'epetition of the two words.] 

(17) I (am) the father, mother, supporter (support), grand¬ 
father of this world; I am also all that which is holy, or which 
is knowable ; and I am the OM-kara, the Rg-Veda, the Sama- 
Veda and the Yajur-Veda; (18) I (am) the Ultimate State 
(of all), the Maintainer (of all), the Overlord, the Witness, the 
Rest, the Refuge, the Friend, the Origin, the Destruction, the 
Existence, the Repository, and the Imperishable Seed. 






GTTA, TRANSLATION & COMMENTARY, CH. IX 1051 


%g[ « 1% II 

(19) I cause the Sun to shine, I restrain and let loose the 
rain; (and) O Arjuna ! 1 am Immortality as also Death ; and 
the Imperishable as also the Perishable. 

[A description of the form of the Paraniosvan similar to 
this description has again appeared ir. detail in 
Chapters X, XI, and XII. But the difference between the 
two descriptions is, that in this place inste.ic^of merely 
mentioning the manife.stations of the Parames'v ara, there is 
a specific statement, that the relationship of the Param- 
esvara to all created beings in the world is like that of a 
father, a mother, a friend, etc. It must be b( rne in mind 
that though causing the rain to fall or preventing the rain, 
from falling, is eitlier profitable or unprofita de from the 
human point of view, yet, sciimtifically speaking and 
essentially, both the acts are tlm acts of the P iramesvara. 
With this idea in mind, the Blessed Lord has said before 
(Gl. 7. i'i) that He Himself creates all the things which are 
sattvika, rdjuHa or /dfrtetsa; and later on in Cnapter XIY, 
there is an exhaustive description of how civersity is 
created in this world as a result of the differe ice between 
the three constituents of PrakHi. Looking at the matter 
from this point of view, the words ‘ sal' and ‘ usat ’ in the 
19th stanza can also he translated as meaning ‘good’ or 
‘bad’; and later on in the Gita (Gi. 17. 5i6-18), such a 
meaning has once been given to tliose words. But the 
ordinary meaning of those wvirds namely, ‘ ' meaning 

‘ imperisliable’and ‘ a.saf ’ moaning‘perishable ’ (Gi. ‘L 16) 
must have been meant here; and it would appear that this 
pair of opposites, namely, ‘ sat ’ and ‘ usat ’ must have been 
inspired by the Nasadiya-Bukta in the same manner as the 
words ‘ mrtyn ' and ‘ anirta \ Nevertheless, whei eas in the 
Nasadiya-Sukta, the word ‘ sat' lias been applied to the 
visible world, the Gita applies the word ‘ vit ’ to the 
Parabrahman, and the word ‘asal’ to the visible world; 
this is the difference (See Gl, Ra. Ch. IX, pp, 336-339). But 
although there may be this terminological difterence, yet. 




1052 


GiTA-RAHASYA OR KARMA-YOGA 


§§ Hi • 

% fT T^?TM ^roT 3og i 

tr^ 5f?frWTg!T>RIT ITfTmfT ^m*'l*Tl II II 

when the two words ‘ sat, ’ and ‘ asal' are used together, they 
clearly include both the visible world and the Para- 
brahman. Therefore, in order to show that both the sal and 
the asat are the forms of the Paramosvara, although people 
might call-this ‘ sat' and that ‘ asat \ as a result of termino¬ 
logical difference, one may interpret this description by 
saying that a vague definition has been given of the words 
‘ sat' and ‘ asat ’ in the expression ‘ I am both the sat and 
the asat', instead of defining those words (Gl. 11. 37 and 
13. 12). The Eilessed Lord now shows the difference 
between worshipping the forms of the Paramesvara looking 
upon Him as One, and worshipping such forms looking 
upon Him as Diverse, though the forms of the Paramesvara 
may thus be numerous—] 

(20) The sinless (persons) sind the 5oma/5i-s (that is, 
performers of the Soma-yajha), who arc traividya (that is, who 
perform the ritual prescribed in the three Vedas, namely, 
the Rg, Yajuh, and Sama); who, worsliipping Me by means 
of a Yajha, entertain a desire to obtain heaven, reach the 
holy sphere of Indra, and enjoy the numerous divine 
enjoyments of the gods, in heaven. (21) And when they 
have exhausted their merit, by enjoying that expansive 
heaven, they take birth again and come to the mortal world. 
In this way, those people, who observe the trayi-dharma (that 
is, the Sruti religion, consisting of Yajnas aad Yagas 
prescribed in the three Vedas), and who entertain a desire 
for desirable enjoyments, Iiave to go backwards and forwards 
(from heaven). 

[ The proposition that, although residence in heaven for 
some time becomes possible by worshipping various deities, 
and by performing such religious observances as Yajnas 
and Yagas, one has to take birth again and come back to 




GiTA, TRANSLATION & GOMMEN TARY, C H. IX 1053 


JTf ^ ^Tin: «igqra^» 

^ T%fqTf^3^Rr %r%ii li »l 

the mortal world when the acquired merit is over, has been 
mentioned several times before (Gi. i. 42-44; 4.34 6. 41; 7. 23; 

8. 16 and 25). Release is not like that, but is permanent; 
that is tci say, when once a person has reached i,he Param- 
esvara, the cycle of birth and death does not am more exist 
for him. The descrii)tion of tlie happiness of heaven given 
in the Mahiibliarata (Vaiia. 2()()) is .similar. 8ut a doubt 
may arise as to how the ‘ ydt/a-k.yma ’ (that isr security 
and prosperity in life—Trans.), in the world will go on, if 
Yajnas and Yagas are given up, seeing that the Yajnas 
and Yagas are rosponsiide for rain, etc., (se( my com¬ 
mentary on Gl. 2. 45 and Gi. Ra. pp, 404-405), Therefore, 
the Blessed I'jOrd gives a reply to that doubt, immediately 
after the above stanza.— ] 

(22) Those: noiic-otlicr-worsliipping persons, who, meditating 
(only) on Me, worship Me, of those pcrpctualh' steeped-in- 
Yoga persons, 1 carry on the yo^m-ksema (tbit is, security 
and prosperity—Trans.). 

[Even the Sasvatakosa defines ‘ yoga-kmud. ’ by saying 
that ‘getting the things one has not got’ is ‘yoga'-, and 
‘protection of the things one lias got’ is 'k^iana' (see 
stanzas 100 and 292); the sum and substance of the 
expression is ‘daily maintenance in worldly life’. The 
reader is referred to the explanation of what this means 
in the iiath of Karma-Yoga, given in Chapter Kill of the 
Glta-Rahesya (see pp. 535 to 537). It has been similarly 
stated in the Narayamya doctrine t.liat; — 

maniy.no hi ye kecif yatayo iinikya/iharmiriah I 
tesain vicchinnafrffnanath yngakymivaho hurih I 

( Ma, Rh.a. San. 148. 72). 

And it is also stated there that such persons, tluugh they 
may bo ‘ ekanfu-bkakla-s ', (that is, worshippars in solitude— 
Trans.) belong, nevertheless, to the Path of Action, that is, 
they perform Action with a desiTele.ss frame of mind. The 
Blessed Lord now explains what happens to tho.so persons 





1054 


GlTA-EAHASYA OB KARMA-YOGA 


17T^ II II 

art f? ^ ^ i 

5T 5 ITmfM^5TRf?cT ^^STTcP^JIclFcT % H II 

who worship the Paramesvara, looking upon Him as diverse 
(that is, analytically—Trans.) 

(23) Even those, who, becoming faith-filled, and 
(becoming) devotees of other deities, perform sacrifice, they 
too, O Kaunteya ! (indirectly) sacrifice to Me, though not in 
the prescribed way; (24) because, 1 am tlie recipient and 

the Lord of all Yajnas; but, as they do not understand 
Me essentially, they slip. 

[ See the explanation given by me in Chapter XIII of 
the Gita-Rahasya (pp. 586 to 591) of the importance of the 
proposition laid down in these two stanzas. The principle 
that, whatever deity is taken, it is a kind of form of the 
Paramesvara, has been in vogue from very ancient times 
in the Vedic religion. For instance, it has been stated 
in the Rg-Veda that “eka/'n nadvipm bahudha vadanfy agnitn 
yamani rnatarisoanainahuh" (Rg. 1. 164, 46), that is, “ though 
the Paramesvara is only One, sages give Him such 
different names as, Agni, Yama, Matarisva (Wind)”. And! 
consistently with that doctrine, there is a description of 
the various manifestations of the Paramesvara in the 
next chapter though He is only One. So also in the 
Narayaniyopakhyana of the Mahabharata, after stating 
that the devotee, who performs Actions in solitude, is 
the most excellent one out of the four kinds of devotees 
( see my commentary on Gl. 7. 19 ), it is stated as follows 

hrahmayani ksitikaritham m yascdnya devatah smrtdh \ 
prahhuddhacartjah sevanlo mdmevaistjanti yat param II 

(Ma. Bha. San. 347, 35.) 

that is, “even those saints, who worship Brahmadeva or 
Siva or the other deities, also ultimately come and reach 
Me”; and the ideas in the above stanzas in the Gita have 
also been adopted in the Bhagavata-Purana (Bhag. 10,, 



GITA, TRANSLATION & COMMENTARY, CH. IX 1055 


?|n^rr NTpnfJcT fqg^rTT: I 

JT^jTT^jnsfq *7 tr: i> o 

pp. 408-10). In tlie same way, it is again stal ed later on 
in the N arayatuyopakhyana, that ;— 

ije ijajdnli pitruri demn guruns mivatithlmit tathd I 
gas <:ai,va ilvijamulchga/hs ca pTlhirini matara h tatha ii 
kariiianu nianasd odcd rf.syuin t'va yajanti ic I 

( Ma. Bha. San. 345, 26, 27). 

that is, “those wlio wor.ship deities, ancestors preceptors, 
guests, Brahmins, cows, etc., indirectly worship onlyVisnu.” 

It is surprising that even the followers of the Bhagavata 
religion should quarrel with the followers of Saivisna, 
though the Bhagavata religion itself thus clearly states 
that Devotion should bo taken as the principle factor, 
and that the symbol in the form of a deity is a matter 
of minor importance, or that though there may be a 
difference in the form of worship, yet, the wonhip is only 
of the (.'no Paramesvara. To proceed: the Blessed Lord 
now explains how though the proposition, thid whatever 
deity is worshipped, the worship is ultimately received 
by the lihagavanta, is true, worshippers miss ihe Path of 
Release, as they do not realise that the deity is one and 
the same; and the Blessed Lord Himself gives different 
Pruits of Action to different persons accordi ig to their 
re.spective faith' - ] 

(25) Those, who worship deities go to and are merged in the 
deities; those, who worship ancestors, in the ancestors* 
those, who worship (different) past beings, in (those 
respective) past beings; and those who worship Me, in Me. 

tin sliort, althongh one Paramesvara aloi e pervades 
everything, yet, the fruit of the worship is of a higher or 
lower grade to every one according to his respective faith. 

N evertheless, it must not be forgotten, that the a ;t of giving 
the reward is not performed by the deity, but bj the Para- 
mesvara, as has been stated above (Gi, 7. 20-23 ). The 
statement made above by the Blessed Lord, in the 24th 
stanza that, “I am the recipient of all Yajhas’ means the 



1056 


gIta-rahasya or karma-yoga 


§§ ^ cN ^ *r ^r?n I 

fT^ xracTTfJT^: l> « 

same thing. Even in the Mahabharata, it ia stated as 
follows:— 

t/anmin yasrnins ca vimtje yo yo yuii viniscayam I 
sa tarn e.mbhijaniHi nunyuih bharalafinlluma II 

(San, 352. 3); 

that is, “ on whatever fortii ( hhava) any man is fixed, he gets 
a fruit, Wliich is conformable to that form”; and there is a 
Sruti text that “yaih yalhu yatlioputiate tad era blumiti” 

(see my commentary on Gi. 8. 6). After having described 
the state obtained by those, who worship the I’aramesvara 
analytically, in the first part of the stanza, the second 
part states that those, who worship the Blessed Lord with 
the faith that there is none other, are really merged in 
the Blessed Lord. The Ble.ssed Lord now enunciates the 
important principle in the Path of Devotion, that lie does 
not pay any attention to what His Devotee offers to Him, 
but merely takes into account his faith or devotion—] 

(26) Whoever with devotion offers Me a leaf, or a flow'er, 
or a fruit, or (according to his means) even a little waiter,, 
that devotional offering of that(that is, person, 
with a regulated Mind ), I accept (gladly). 

[The above stanza enunciates the devotional trans¬ 
formation of the principle of Karma-Yoga, that “the 
Reason is .superior to the Action" (BeeGi. Ra. Chap. XV, 
pp. 668 to 672), In this connection, the tradition of the 
boiled rice offered by Sudama to Sri Krsna is well-known; 
and in the Bhagavata-Piirana, this stanza has appeared 
in the Sudaniacaritopakhyana itself (Bhag. 10. U. 81. 4). 
Having a large or a small quantity of the material for 
worship, is not subject to the control of a iierson, under all 
circumstances, and at all tirne.s. It Is, therefore, said in the 
Sastras, that the Blessed Lord is satisfied, not only with 
whp.tever little material for worship may bo available 
according to one’s means, but even by the mental material 
of worship offered with a pure mind. The Blessed f.ord 



GiTA, TRANSLATION & CttMMENTARY CH. IX 1057 


§§ I 

»r?qam n u 

^?rra?Tt»T3WrJTT firg^T T Kg% sqT % « u 

does not crave for materials of worship, Imt is concerned 
only with Devotion. This is tin* most important difference 
between the Mimaihsa i’ath and the Path of Devotion. For 
performing; Yajnas and Yat;as, it is necessary to spend 
a lot of money, and also many other things b .ive got to be 
done; hut the devotional sacrifice can be ])e'formed even 
with a. single leaf of the fut.si plant. There is an incident 
descrilied in the Mahabharata of Draupadt having performed 
this kind of Yajfia when Durvasa had come as a guest to 
her place, and having thereby pleased the Blessed Lord. 
To proceed: the Ble.ssed Lord iiow advises Arjuna to perforin 
various Actions in tlic way, in which the d ivotee of the 
Blessed Lord performs tliom; and explains ti ■ him what is 
obtained by doing so—| 

(27) O Kaunteya! whatever you do, whatever you eat, 
whatever you offer as sacrifice, wliatevcr you give, whatever 
austerity you perform, dedicate all that to Me. (28) Acting 
thus, (even performing Actions), you will be free from the 
bonds of Action, in the shape of a good or evil result; and, 
becoming a ‘ yukiatma’ (that is, pure-learted), and 
(becoming) Released, by means of this Yoga cf Renunciation 
(of the Fruit of Action), you will come and rei ch Me. 

[From this it becomes quite clear, that ever the Devotee 
of the Blessed Lord (the bhatjarddhliukki) has to perform 
all Actions with the idea of dedicating them to Sri Krsna, 
and that he cannot give up Action; and from this point 
of view, these two stanzas are important, 'Che principle 
of the Jhana-Yajfia, namely ,'' bmhmdrpaiiani I rahina havih” 
(Gi. 4. ill), has now been enunciated in th( il7th stanza 
in the terminology of Devotion. (See Gi. Da. Ch. XIII, 
pp. GOi! to 604). The Blessed Lord has adrised Arjuna 
already in Chapter III that: “ nuiiji sirrrani karmdm 



1058 GlTA-RAHASYA OR KARMA-YOGA 


§§ ^rst 5T tK^TSf^cT ^ T^: I 

^ g trf JTRt ^ ^ U II 

3Tfq %ff5fTT^Kr ^31% in?i5F?iW55.1 

^ ?FcTS?i: 5(^»?iic2i5r%cfr fl II ^0 n 

samnyasya" (Gi. 3. 30), that is, “making a Renunciation 
of all Action in Me—fight”; and in Chapter V, the 
Blessed Lord has again said, that the person, who performs 
Action's unattachedly, dedicating them to the Brahman, 
is not affected by the Action (5. 10). This is true 
Renunciation according to the Gita (Gl. 18. 3); and, one who 
performs all Actions, in this way, giving up {samnyasya) 
the Hope for Fruit of Action, is a ‘ nilya-samnyasm' 

(perpetual ascetic), (Gi. 5. 3). The Gita does not approve 
of Renunciation in .shape of the Abandonment of Action. 

It has been stated in various places before, that performing 
Actions in this way, is not obstructive of Release (Gl. 3. 64; 

3. 19; 4. 33; 5. 12; 6. 1; 8. 7); and, the same thing has been 
repeated here in the 38th stanza. In the Bhagavata- 
• Purana, the Nrsimha-forraed Lord has advised Prahlada 
as follows namely, “ ynayyuvesya manastUt kuru karmard 
mafparah”, that is, “perform all Actions, fixing your mind 
on Me” (Bhag. 7.10. 33); and later on, in the 11th skandha, 
the principle of Yoga by Devotion has been enunciated 
by saying, that the Devotee of the Blessed Lord should 
dedicate all Actions to Narayana (See Bhag. 11. 3. 36 and 
11. 11. 34). To proceed; it has been stated in the beginning 
of this chapter that the Path of Devotion is pleasant and 
easy. The Blessed Lord now describes the other great 
special quality of that Path, namely. Equability, as 
follows:—] 

(29) I am the same towards all created beings; to Me 
(there) is not (some one, who is) dvesya Ghat is, un-liked), 
nor (some one, who is) priya (that is, dear). But, those who 
worship Me with devotion, I am embodied in them, and they 
are embodied in Me. (30) Be he a great evil-doer, yet, if 
he worships Me with the faith that there is no one else, then 
he must be considered a saint; because, the determination of 






GlTA, T RAiSTSLATION & COMMENTARY, CH. IX 1059 

’TUlrW T%TT=EUfrT I 

JT IT sror^% ii ii 
w 1% »Tr!'-l %siq t 3‘- »TN^5r!i: i 

<%nTr t^RrT'-OT TITi^ TO II II 

1% gsTaffuraiT: gain wr i 

'm%rqTTgi? sn«:?i itth h n 

his Reiison is proper. (31) He soon becomes a ‘ dharmdtma' 
(that is, ‘ a pious soul’—Trans.); and attains eternal tran¬ 
quility. O Kaunteya! know this to be certiun, that no 
devotee of mine is (ever) destroyed. 

(The third stanza is not to ho nnderstood as meaning that 
the Blessed Lord loves his devotee, even if he is an evil¬ 
doer. All that the Blessed Lord .says is that, e ven if a man 
is an evil-doer in tlio beginning, yet, when 1 is mind has 
beoomo definitely directed towards the I’nia^inesvara, he 
cannot aftorwaials perform any evil Action; and, that he 
gradually becomes a pious soul {(/liunnalnul), and attains 
Perfection; and try such Perfection, his sin is ultimately 
fully destroyed. In .short, the proposition stated in 
Chapter VI, that oven if a man i.s merely insoired by the 
desire to know what Karma-Yoga is, ho become s helpless, as 
if he was put into a grinding-mill, and gradually goes 
beyond the fruit-promising ritualism ( sabda-brehma), is now 
made ai)plicabl 0 to the Path of Devotion. The Blessed 
Lord now explains more clearly how He is equ ible towards 
all created beings— J 

(32) Because, O Partha! taking shelter in Me, women, 
Vaisyas, SCidras, and others born in a sinful class (such as 
the lowest classes, etc. ) obtain the highest state ; ( 33 ) 
then, all the more so, those, who arc holy Brahmins and also 
King-Sages (i. c., ‘rfl/hr-.w-s’—Trans.), (Ksatri/as), wdio are 
My devotees. As you are living in tliis transient and 
unhappy (that is, painful) mortal w'orld, do yon be devoted 
to Me. 

[Some commentator,s have said that the wore ’pa/pauoni' 
in the 3J’nd stanza is not independent, hut applies equally to 



1060 


GITA-EAHASYA OR KARMA-YOGA 


women, Vaisyas, and Sudras, because no one is born as 
a woman, or a Vaisya, or a Siidra, unless he has committed 
some sin in previous births. According to them, the word 
^pajKiyoni' is a common word, and women, Vaisyas, and 
Sndras, are specific divisions of such papayoni, given by 
way of illustration. But this interpretation is not correct 
according to me. The word ‘papayoni'' indicates such 
tribes as are referred to as ‘ criminal tribes ’ in present 
legislation; and, the doctrine laid down in these stanzas is, 
that people*belonging to even these classes obtain Perfection 
by means of Devotion to the Blessed Lord. Women, 
Vaisyas, and Sudras do not come nnder those tribes, and 
their difficulty in obtaining Release, is that they are not 
authorised to hear the Vedas; and it is, therefore, stated 
in the Bhagavata-Purana that:—■ 

stri sudra dvija-bandhunam trayl na srufigocara I 
karmasreyafti mudhandm sreya evai'n bhave.d iha I 
iti bliuratam akhyanant kTpayd ruunina krtani II 

( Bhag. 1. 4. 25 ) 

that is, “in order that women, Sudras, and the nominal 
Brahmins of the Kali-Yuga {i. e., the present age), who do 
not get a chance of hearing the Vedas, should not remain 
ignorant, the sago Vyasa has benevolently and intentionally 
written the Mahabharata,—and necessarily also the 
Qlta—for their benefit”. The above stanzas from the 
Bhagavadgita have, with minor alterations of reading, 
also appeared in the Anugita (Ma. Bha. Asva. 19. 
61, 62). The true worth of this royal road of Devotion 
to the Blessed Lord, which gives a good final state to all, 
withovit considering the difference between castes, or 
between classes, or between women and men, or between 
persons of black or white colour, will become fully 
intelligible to any one who considers the history of the 
Maharastra saints. A fuller explanation of the above 
stanza has been given in Chapter XHI of the Gita-Rahasya 
at pp. 613 to 618, to which the reader is referred. The advice 
given to Arjuna in the latter part of the 33rd stanza, 
to follow this religion of Devotion, is continued in the 
34th stanza. J 




GiTA, TRANSLATION & COMMENTARY, CH. IX 1061 

§§ xT^rnft irf i 

xrm%^l% JTrqXT^ar: n ^8 li 

fl% W?Ti%?IT2IT ?TTWr^ 

^cTlt XT^RsTRI^ii^i-MHl irm XT^nTTS’^'XIFT: <1 % <> 

(34) Keep your miud fixed on Me, becoti'.e My devotee, 
worship Me, offer sacrifice to Me, and bow do vn before Me. 
When, becoming thus devoted to Me, you perform your 
Yoga, you will come and reach Me. 

[Strictly speaking, this advice has been ^tdl’ted in the 
33rd stanza. The word ‘uriilija’, in the 33rd stanza, has 
been used consistently with the Metaphysical doctrine, 
that the expansion of Rrakrti, or the Name-d and Forni-ed 
visible world, is non-permanent; and, that tlie Atman, or 
the Paramatman alone is peiananent; and the word 
‘ asukha ’ echoes the proposition, that there is me re of unhappi¬ 
ness than of happiness in this life. Yet, this description does 
not pertain to the Philosophy of the Absolute Self, but to the 
Path of Devotion; and, that is why, instead of using the 
words ‘ parabrahman ’ or ‘ puranuitnum ’, the Blessed Lord 
has used words indicative of the first person, \;fith reference 
to His perceptible form, and said “Worship Me, keep your 
Mind concentrated on Me, and how down befere Me”; and 
advised Arjuna, that, if ho thus performed this Yoga or 
Karma-Yoga, with Devotion, and becoming attached to 
Him, (Gi. 7. 1), he would be free from the bonds of Action, 
and ultimately come and be merged in Him and that is 
the final admonition of the Ble.s.sed Lord. And the same 
advice has been repeated later on at the end ol Chapter XI. 
This is, indeed, the my.stic import of the whole of the 
Gita. The only difference is, that it !mt once been 
expressed from the Metaphysical point of ^'iew, and at 
another time, from the Devotional point of view.] 

I'hus ends the ninth chapter named Rajvidya-Raja- 
GUHYA Yoga in the dialogue between Sri Krsua and Arjuna, 
on the Yoga included in t!ie Science of the Bri hraan, (that is, 
the Karma-Yoga) in the Upanisad sung (that is, told) by the 
Blessed Lord. 



§§ JTirarf r ^ ^ ^ '• I 

?l%st jfl^JTTnri?! f!r rT ^l *j|'S| | II X II 

5T TT : ^^TTott: ST^r^ ^ ITfi^: I 
STfJTTl^ff ’^5lf JT^oit ^ II ^ II 

^ ITT?riTJI5TT1^ ^ ' 

3T^+j5b • ^ ti4m%: JT5^?Trt II ^ II 

CHAPTER X. 

[The description of the royal road in the shape of the 
worship of the Perceptible, prescribed by the Blessed Lord 
for acquiring Xarma-Yoga in the last chapter, is continued 
in this chapter; and in reply to the question of Arjuna, He 
gives in the end a description of the various perceptible 
forms or manifestations (rihhTiH) of the Paramesvara ; and 
hearing this description, Arjuna is filled with the desire of 
seeing the Form of the Paramesvara with his own eyes; 
therefore, in the next, that is, the eleventh chapter, the 
Blessed Lord has shown him His Cosmic Form, and satisfied 
his ambition,] 

The Blessed Lord said :—(1) O Maliabalio ! to you, who 
are gratified ( by My speech ), 1 am once more describing 
( one ) excellent thing, for your benefit, to which listen. 
(2) My origin is not understood even by the multitude of 
gods, or by great Rsis; bcctiuse, 1 am, indeed, in every way, 
the Fundamental cause of the gods and the great Rsis. (3) He, 
who realises that 1 am the Great Isvara of all spheres, ( such 
as, the earth, etc. ), and tliat there is no birth or origin for 
Me, he alone, among all men, becoming free from Ignorance, 
becomes free from all sins. 

[The idea that the Parabraluuan, or the Blessed Lord, was 
in existence even before the gods, and that the gods came 
afterwards, is to be found in the Nasadiya-Sukta in the 
Rg-Veda (See Gi. Ra. Ch. IX, p. :551). To proceed: this 




Ori'A, TRANSLATION & COMMENTAR'^", CH. X 1063 


^ ^ II 8 n 

3?f|^ ^rffTT gfg^rT'fr ^ 315frsq'^: I 

^RT ^JcTTR IR : II 'A II 

is, so i’ar, the introduction; the Blessed Lord now explains 
how He is the Great Isvara of all—| 

(4) Reason, Knowledge, Non-delusion,forgiveness, Truth, 
sensual restraint, tranquility, happiness, unhappiness, ‘bhava’ 
( that is, coining to life ), ‘ abhUva ' (that is, death ), as also 
fear and fearlessness, (5) harmlessness, equability, ‘ tusli * 
( satisfaction ), austerity, charity, ' yaka ' (t iat is, glory— 
Trans.), ‘ayaka ’ (that is, disgrace—Traus.), and otlier similar 
‘bhava’-s (that is, temperaments) of all living beings, 
are born from Me alone. 

[The word ‘ bhava ’ means ‘ condition ‘ state or 
■ temperament ’; and Sariikhya philosophj makes a 
distinction between the hhava-s of Reason, and the 6te'm-s 
of the Hody. As the Spirit is non-active, and Reason is 
an evolute of Prakrti according to the Samkhyas, they 
say that the various conditions or bhava-s ol the Reason, 
existing in the Subtle Body (Ih'nin-sanra) are responsible for 
the various births, as a bird or a beast, which the Subtle 
Body assumes (see Gi. Ra. Ch. VIII. p. 261, a id Sarh. Ka. 
40 to 55); and most probably, these are the bhava-s which 
have been referred to in the above two stanzas. But, as 
Vedanta says that there is only One Permanent Principle, 
in the shape of the Paramatman, Which is beyond both 
Matter and Spirit, and that the entire visible universe 
comes to birth as a result of the desire \ o create the 
universe, which arises in the mind of that Paramatman, as 
de.scribed in the Nasadiya-Sukta, even Vedant sts say, that 
all the (ireated things in the world, which are embodied in 
in Maya, are the Mental 6Mm-s of the Parabrahman (see 
the next stanza). The words ' austerity ‘ charity 



1064 


GiTA-RAHASYA OR KARMA-YOGA 


JT^r mST^r ^rTT W Wm ■ : II ^ II 

‘ Yajna etc. are to be under.stood as the frames of mind 
indicating faith in those things. To proceed : the Ble.ssed 
Lord now says that—] 

(6) The seven Great Rsis, the former Four, as also the 
Manu-s from whom this generation was created in this ‘ loha ' 
( that is, world-Trans. ), are My mental (that is, ‘ created by 
the Mind ’ ) ‘•bhava ’-s ( that is, ' states ’-Trans. ). 

[Although the words u.sed in this stanza are easy, yet, 
there is great difference of opinion between the commentators 
about the legendary personages to whom this stanza refers. 
Especially the explanation as to the terms to which the 
words “the former” and the word “Four” are to be 
applied, has been given by different commentators in 
different ways. The seven Maharsis (i. e., “ Great Rsis ”) 
are well-known; but one kxtlpi of Brabmadeva consists of 14 
Manvantaras (See Gi. Ra. p, 264); and for each of these 
Manvantaras, the Manu, the deity, and the seven Rsis were 
different (See Harivaihsa 1.7; Visnu. 3.1, and Matsya. 

9). Therefore, some commentators have taken the words 
“ the former ” as an ad,iective (pialifying the ‘ Seven 
Maharsis ” ; and have explained the stanza by saying that 
the seven Maharsis of the Caksusa Manvantara, that is, of 
the Manvantara previous to the present Vaivasvata 
Manvantara, are indicated here. These seven Rsis were 
Bhrgu and others, namely, Bhrgu, Nabha, Vivasvan, 
Sudhama, Viraja, Atinama, and Sahisnu. But according to 
me, this interpretation is not correct; because, there seems 
no reason to say anything in this context about the seven 
Groat Rsis in the Manvantara, previous to the present one, 
that is, Vaivasvata Manvantara, in which the Gita was told. 
Therefore, one must take the seven Rsis to be those of the 
present Manvantara. Their names have been mentioned in 
* The word ‘ Yajna ’ appears in the author’s text ; but 1 think 
* tjasa ’ is meant, as that is the word used in this stanza of the 
Gita —Tra ns 





GITA, TRANSLATION & COMMENTARY, OH. X 1065 


the Narayaiilyopakhyana of the Santiparva of the Maha- 
bharata as: Maruh, An^irasa, Atri, Pulai tya, Pulaha, 
Kratu, and Vaaislha (Ma. Bha. San. 335. 38, 29 ; 340. 64 
and 65); and in my opinion those are the seven Rsis who are 
indicated here ; because, it is the Narayaniya cr Bhagavata 
religion, with its relative ritual, which has bten supported 
in the Ciita (See G 1 . Ra-pp. 12 and 13). Howerer, it must 
be mentioned here that the names of the seven Rsis 
mentioned above, namely, Marici, otc., aro sometimes 
found started from Blu’gii instead of from Ai girasa; and 
in some places, there is even a descri])t;on that the 
seven lists of the present Yiiga are Kasyapa, Atri, 
Bhal•ad^dija, Visvamitra,Gautama, Jamadagni, mid Vasistha 
(Visnu. 3. 1. 32 and 33; Mati;ya. 9.27 and 28; Ma. Bha. 
Anu. 93. 21). In the Visnu-l'urana, Bhrgu and Daksa 
have been added to tho.su seven Rsis, namely, Marici and 
the others, so as to maku out nine (Visnu, 1. 7. 5. 6); and 
1)110 more, namely, Narada has again been added to tho.se 
nine in the Manu-Snuti in describing the co i Mind-born 
son,s (/MilHasu-pa/rn) of Brahmadova (Manu, 1, 84, 35); and 
the etymology of the words Marici, etc., has been given in 
Bharata (Ma. Bha. Anu. 85). But, us we have to see for 
the pre,s(!nt only which those seven Great Rsi.« w'ore, it is 
not necessary to consider here those nine or ten Mind- 
born sons or the etymological sigriilicance of their names. 
It is quite clear that the words “ the Formei ” cannot he 
interpreted as meaning the seven Rsis of the previous 
Manvantara. I,ot us now see to what oxter,t the inter¬ 
pretation of some commentators, who have taken the words 
“the former Four” as referring to the word ‘Manu-’sis 
correct. Thore are in all fourteen Munvantaras, of which 
there are fourteen Manus; and these are suh-divided into 
two cla.-sse.s of seven each. The finst seven are called 
Svayaihhhnva, Svarocisa, Auttami, Tamasa, Raivata, 
OaksLisa, and Vaivasvata; and they are rel erred to as 
‘ Svayairdihuva and others ’ (Mann. 1. 62 and 63 ). Of the.se, 
the first six Manus are over; and the seventh, tliat is to say, 
the Vaivasvata Mann, is now going on. When tliis Mann 
is over, the seven subseriuent Manus (Bhag. 8 13. 7) are 





1066 


GiTA-RAHASYA OE KARMA-YOGA 


called the Savariii Manus. Their names are, Savariii, 
Daksa-Savarni, Brahma-Savarni, Dharnia-Savarni, Rudra- 
Savarni, Deva-Savarni, and liulra-Savarni (Visnu. 3. 2; 
Bhagavata. 8. 13 ; Harivarasa, 1. 7). Considering that there 
are seven Manus in each class, it cannot be explained why 
the Gita should have referi’ed only to “ the former Four ”, 
that is to say, the “ first four ” only from either class. On 
account of the tradition in the Brahinanda-Purana, that out 
of the Savarni Manus, the four after the first one, namely, 
the Daksai-, Brahma-, Dharma-, and Rudra-Savarni 
Manus, were all created at the same time, some commenta¬ 
tors say that the Gita refers to these four Savarni Manus. 
But to this suggestion, an objection is taken by others that 
as the Savarni Manus are all to come in the future, the 
words “ from whom this generation was created in this 
world ”, which are indicative of tl\e past tense, cannot be 
applied to the Savarni Manus, which are to come in the 
future. In short, the words “ the former Four ” cannot be 
taken to refer to the word “ Manus Therefore, the words 
“ the former Four” must he taken to have independent 
reference to some former four Rsis, or four personages ; and 
if you say so, the question who these “ former Four ” were, 
naturally arises. 'I’hose commentators, who have inter¬ 
preted this stanza in that way, say that these “ former Four ” 
were the four Rsis named Hanaka, Sananda, Sanatana, and 
Sanatkumara (Bhag. 3. 12, 4). But, to this interpretation, 
there is the objection that although these four Rsis were 
the Mind-born sons of Brahmadeva, yet, as they were 
Samnyasins from birth, they refused to raise progeny ; and, 
on that account, Brahmadeva liad got angry with them 
(Bhag. 3. 12; Visnu. 1, 7); and, therefore, the sentence 
“ from whom this generation was created in this world— 
“ yesani loka imah prajUh "— cannot under any circum¬ 
stances be applied to tlie Rsis. Besides, although it is 
stated in the Puranas, that these Rsis were four, yet, in the 
Bharata, in the Narayanlya, that is, the Bhagavata 
doctrine, Sana, Kapila, and Sanatsujata have been added 
to these four, and these seven Rsis are said to be the Mind- 
born sons of Brahmadeva; and it is stated that they 




GiTA, TRANSLATION &GOMMENTARY, CH. X 1067 


foliowod the Path of Renunciation from birth (Ma. 
Bha. 340. 67. 68). Besides, even if the Rsis are thus taken 
to be seven, that is, Sanaka and others, yet, there seems to 
be no reason why only four of these should have been 
referred to here. Then, who are these “ former Four ” ? In 
ray opinion, the answer to this question must he given from 
the legendary stories pertaining to the Narayanlya, or, the 
Bhagavata religion; because, in my oj inion, it is 
unquestiionable that the Bhagavata dootri le alone is 
supported in the Gita. Now, if one considers the bhagavata 
conception of the creation of the universe, the four entities 
VaKud(!va (Atman), Saihkarsana (Jiva), Pradynmna (Mind),, 
and Aniruddha (Individuation) had come into existence 
before the seven Rsis ; and. it is there stated that, from the 
last of them, namely, from Aniruddha, that is, from 
Brahmadeva, the Mind-born sons Marici, etc., ca ne to be born 
(Ma. Bha. San. 339. 34 to 40 and 60 to 72 ; 340. 27 to 31). 
The four entities, Vasudeva, Sariikarsana, Pradyumna, and 
Aniruddha, are collectively known as the ‘ C iturvyuha ’ ; 
and whereas one sect of the Bhagavata doctrine says that 
these four entities were all independent of each other, other 
sects look upon two or three, out of these four, is the more 
important ones. But, these conceptions are not acceptable 
to the Bhagavadgita, which pertains to the ' Ekavyuha ’ 
school, that is, which is of the opinion that the four 
Vyuhas and everything else was created from ‘ cAa ’ or 
One, Paraniesvara, as has been shown by me in the Glta- 
Rahasya (Ql. Ra. p. 266 and 756). It is, therefore, stated 
in this stanza, that the four entities, Vasudeva, etc., 
forming the ‘Caturvyuha’ arc not independmt of each 
other, and that all these four Vyuhas are the bhavas or 
‘ states ’ of One Paramesvara, that is, of the A ll-pervading 
Vasudeva (Gl. 7. 19). Looking at the matter from this 
point of view, it will be seen that the words ‘ the former 
Four ” have reference to the Caturvyuha of Vasudeva and 
the others, who had come into existence before the Seven 
Rsis according to the Bhagavata religion, it has been 
stated in the Bharata itself, that the distinction between 
the four Vyuhas according to the Bhagavata religion was 



1068 


gita-rahasya or karma-yoga 


§§ n:frt Jm cTr^IrT : I 

3^^ frm : n ^ II 

art STM^ft ?rrT*. ^ i 
?% JTrgr •• n i< 

JTm^ JT^friTTorr wtwct: i 

^xrsFcm w f?r?q g^qr^cT ^ ^ n ^ ii 

^r ^?i'd5?RRT M^?Tt sfn%qq^*3[ i 
q^tr if^M ?T ^ JTTSqqTRcT ^ II \o II 

in vogue from former times (Ma. Bha. San. 348. 57); this 
idea is not something new invented by me. In short, on 
the authority of the Narayanlyopakhyana of the Bharata, 

I interpret “ the seven Maharsis ”, to mean, Marici and 
others ; “ the former Pour ”, to mean, Vasudeva and others 
forming the Caturvyuha; and ‘ Manu-sto mean, the six 
previous Manus, and the seventli Manu then current, 
making up the Svayarhhhuva group of Manus. The idea 
of looking upon the four entities, namely, Aniruddha, (that 
is. Individuation), and the others, as the sons of the 
Pararaesvara is also to be found in another place in the 
Bharata (Ma. Bha. San. 3il. 7, 8). The bhuva-B or mental 
states of the Faramesvara have thus been mentioned. The 
Blessed Lord now explains the result of worshipping Him, 
after one has realised this fact—| 

(7) He, who understands the principle of this my ‘vibhuti’ 
(that is, manifestation) and this my Yoga (that is, device or 
power by which I cause this manifestation), undoubtedly 
attains the permanent (Karma-) Yoga. (8) Wise men,realising 
that I am the Origin of everything, and that all things spring 
from Me, become imbued with My bhava-s ( that is, states 
—Trans. ) and thus worship Me. (9) Concentrating their 
minds on Me, fixing their life on Me, giving counsel to each 
other and telling each other legends about Me, they are 
always happy and engrossed (in doing that). (10) To those, 
who thus always remaining *yukta' (that is, content), 
worship Me, I give the Yoga of the (Equable ) Reason, 




GlTA, TRANSLATION & COMMENTARY OH. X 1069 



cTJT: I 

II \\ II 

§§ irt qt ’iTR qr*? i 
3 ^ f?5qqrr?^qqiT Tqijq; n i 
anf^cqT^qq: ^ tqi^rfecTsqr i 
an^rTf sqr^: '^q qrqrf^ ^ ii n 


which enables them to come and reach Me. ,(11) And in 
order to bestow favour on them, I enter thei ' ‘ atmabhava ’ 
(that is, their Inner Sense); and by the brilliant Lamp of 
Knowledge, destroy the darkness born ol i,guorance ( in 
their Minds ). 

tit has been stated above in Chapter VII that it is the 
Paramesvara Himself, Who creates the frith towards 
various deitie,s (7. 21); in the same way, it is now stated in 
the 10th stanza that the act of increasing Equability of 
Ileason in persons, who have taken to t;ie Path of 
Devotion, is performed by the Purame.Wara Himself; and 
this proposition in the Path of Devotion is similar in 
meaning to the statement made above (Gi. 6. 44) that once 
a man is inspired by a desire for Karma-'foga, he is 
dragged towards complete perfection, as if he In d been put 
into a grinding-mill. It is said that this capicity arises 
from Free Will according to the doctrine ol Causality. 
But, even the Atman is the Paramesvara ; therefore, it is 
stated in the Doctrine of Devotion, that this Fruit or this 
Frame of Mind is given by the I'aramesvara tr each one 
according to his actions in previous births (Gi. 7.20 and 
Gi. Ra. Ch. Xllf, p. 596). After the Blessed Lord has in 
this way explained the principle underlying the Path of 
Devotion—] 

Arjuuii said :—(12) That You (are) the Highest Brahman, 
the most Exalted State, the most Sacred Thing, the Brilliant 
and the Permanent Spirit, the Highest Deity, the Unborn, 
the sarva-vibhu (that is, the All-pervading), (13) is said 
with reference to You by all Rsis, as also by the Devarsi 



1070 


GiTA-RAHASYA OB KARMA-YOGA 


> 

5T ft ^ ^ ^T^nrr:«u 

^R^rJTHTSS??TR r^ 3^^r^?T I 

^iJT^frasT 5nTrqt U X'^ \\ 

fts^rr UTfJTftif^q: I 

?irf5rf^»|TtfWf^I%*TT<:r4 ftH% II » 
fwflt ^T qfti%T?nrj; i 

^ wtf f^r3nST% ^J7TcI5q?rT II II 
ft^onrfltr ^ ^ ^HrfsT i 

(jfHrl ^(isr?fi ^rf^cT tsgfT*^ ii Xc n 

Narada, by Asita, Devala, and even by Vyasa; and You: 
also tell me the same thing. (14) O Kesava 1 all this which 
You tell me, I look upon as true. O Blessed Lord ! Your 
‘vyakti’ (that is, Your origin) is known neither to the gods 
nor to the demons, (15) O Bhiitesa, Who have created' 
all these created beings 1 O God of gods, and Lord of 
the Universe ! You alone are the one, O Purusottama I Who' 
know Yourself! (16) Therefore, those your divine mani¬ 
festations, by which You have pervaded all these spheres, 
(please) describe all those in detail to me. (17) O Yogin ! 
how shall I Realise You, by continually meditating on You ? 
and O Blessed Lord! in wlnit different objects should I 
meditate on You? (Tell me that). (18) O Janardana I 
tell me again in full detail Your vibhuii-s (that is, mani¬ 
festations) and Your Yoga, because, I cannot hear enough, 
of this (Your) nectar-like (conversation). 

[The words * vibhTiti’ and 'yoga' have appeared in the 
7th stanza of this chapter, and Arjuna has repeated them 
here. See the meaning of the word ‘ Yoga ’ which has 
been given before (Gi. 7, 35), It must be borne in mind, as 
has been stated in the 17th stanza, that Arjuna’s reason 
for asking about the different manifestations of the Blessed 
Lord was not in order to meditate on those different 
manifestations as deities, but in oi’der to look upon all 
those different manifestations as being the All-Pervasive. 




GITA, TRANSLATION & COMMENTARY, CH. X 1071 


^rT % ?ITrHf%»JrT2I: 1 

5TT^I?5rar: JTRrOTrfT g II 1% II 

3Ti7Hr?gr 55^T%^ ^»j^T^TEff^''afT‘. i 
■3T?rgrf^3i iT>iq' ^ »ifrr?TnT?fi n;ci ^ n n 
^irTr^r^Tmi RGig^?itT?r»n ?:ra?:?pTrss; i 
TTflT^g^fTTHRH ?r«^T5TTnrTg? II >l 
l\iramesvui-a. Because, the Blessed Jau'd hi.s already 
explained befure that tbero is a world of diflbrence, from 
the point: of view of the Path of Devotion, liatween believing 
that there is only one Paramesvara in all ]daces, and 
looking upon the different manifestations of ;he Parain- 
esvara as different deities (Gb 7. tiO to -5, 9-3’^ 1 o 38). ] 

The Blessed Lord said :—(19) Very well! O [vurusresthiiI 

1 shall now describe to you tlic most important of My divine 
manifestations, because, there is no end to My expansion. 

[ Ther? are descriptions of the form of the Pirainesvara 
in the Annsrcianaparva ( 14, 311-331 ) ar d in the 
Anu-glt/i ( Asva. 43-44), which are similar to the 
description of manifestations given here. Bat, as the 
description in the Gita is Kweeter than thi.'Sf given else¬ 
where, it seems to have lieen copied in the (. ther places. 
Kor instance;, a similar descriptiem of manifn.s iations has 
been made in the 15th chapter of the eleventh skundfia of 
the Bhagavata-Pnrana by the Blessed Lord ti Ilddhava; 
and it has heicn stated theerc (Bhag. 11. 16. 6-f-), that the 
desendptian is similar to the (le;scription given in this 
chapter, j 

(20) O Guelakcsa! 1 am tlic ‘alma’ (that is. Self—Trans.), 
■which exirts in the licait of all crc.'itcd beingj; and I am 
also the origin, the middle, anil tlie end of (all) created 
beings. (21) I am the Visnu among the (twelve) ddifya-s 
(that is, Suns —I'rans.); 1 am the radiating Sun, among the 
brilliant bo.dies; 1 am Marici out of the (seven or forty-nine*) 

* In the lUI.'') edition of the text, these .are stated to be 
t hirty-nine—Trans. 


1073 


GiTA-RAHASYA OB KARMA-YOGA 


^RT ?tnRmr^ srr^: i 

?l^5?Tr0Tf %rRT U II 

Mariita-s; I (am) the Moon, among the lunar asterisms.. 
(22) I am the Sama-veda, among the Vedas; (1) am Indra, 
among the gods; (I) am the Mind, among the senses; (I} am 
the cetana, (that is, the movement of vitality) in created 
beings. 

[Just as it is stated here, that “ I am the Sama-Veda 
among the Yedas ’’ that is to say, that the Sama-Veda is the 
principal Veda, so also is it stated in the Anusasanaparva 
of the Mahabharata (14. 317) that “ samavedas ca veddnani 
yajusam safarudriyam But in the Anu-gita, supreme 
importance among the Vedas is given to the Om-kara by 
the words “ Orn-kdrah sarva-vedmiam, etc.” (Asva. 44. 6); and 
it has been stated in the Gita itself, in a previous chapter 
(Gl. 7. 8), that " prartavah mrvamdesu ” (that is, “ I am the 
pranava (Om-kara) in all the Vedas—Trans.). So also in 
the Gita, (9. 17) a higher place has been given to the 
Rg-Veda than to the S§.ma-Veda by the words rk-sdma- 
yajur eva ca ; and the ordinary belief is the same. As 
these statements have been looked upon as mutually 
contradictory, several persons have come out with different 
explanations about them. In the Chandogyopanisad, the 
Om-kara is given the name ‘ udgifha and it is stated there, 
that this ‘ udgitha ’ is the summary of the Sama-Veda, and 
that the Saraa-Veda is the summary of the Rg-Veda 
(Chan. 1. 1. 2). This statement in the Chandogya harmo¬ 
nises the various statements regarding which is the most 
superior among the Vedas; because, even in the Sama- 
Veda, the hymns have been taken from the Rg-Veda. But, 
some persons are not satisfied with that; and say that there 
must be some deep reason for giving prominence to the 
Sama-Veda in the Gita in this place. Although the Sama- 
Veda has been given prominence in the Chandogyopanisad, 
yet, Manu has said “the voice of the Sama-Veda is 
impure ” (Manu. 4. 124). From this fact, one critic has 
drawn the inference that the Gita, which gives prominence 
to the Sama-Veda, must be anterior in point of time to 





G It A, TRANSLATION & COMMENTARY, OH. X 1073 


^RfrTT qR^TT%7 ire; f^RarnT^H:«ii 
^ 3p^ w qT'4 f f i 

HHT?:: II ?8 II 

TT^qfarf i 

?i?THTr wr^iST% ^viir^roorr n ii 

Manu ; and another critic says that the writer of the Gita 
was possibly a Sania-Vedi; and that he has, on that 
account, given prominence to the Sania-Veda. But, in my 
opinion, it is not necessary to go so far for giving a 
satisfactory explanation of the words “ I am tht Sama-Veda 
among the Vedas”. The worship or praise of the 
Paramesvara in the form of a song is always given 
prominence in the Path of Devotion. Ifor ins ance, in the 
Narayaniya-dharina, Narada has described ihe Blessed 
Lord as “ ix^de.su .su pardijenn tniimopainjum. f/lyase ” (Ma. 
Bha. San. ddl. 23); VasurajahaH l»een described is ‘singing’ 
the ‘; of., ''japyunt jtnjau.'’ (San. 337. H ; and 342. 

70 and 81), by making use of the root ‘f/fi’ (losing). 
There is, therefore, nothing to be surprised at in prominence 
being given in a devotional religion to the nu sical Sarna- 
Veda over the ritualistic Veda consisting of Yajhas 
and Yagas; and in my opinion, this is the simple reason for 
saying ” 1 am the Sania-Veda among the Vedas ”.] 

(23) And, among the (eleven) Rmlras, 1 mi Sathkara;. 
Kubera, among the Yaksa-raksasa-s; 1 am the Tavaka, among 
the (eight) Vasu-s; I, the .Vlcru among the (seven) mountains; 

(24) O Piirtha ! and undcrstaiul that among the preceptors^ 
I am the principal one, namely, Brhaspati; I (am) Skanda 
(Kartikeya) among the commanders of armies; I am the 
Samudra (the ocean), among collections of water. (25) L 
Bhrgu, among the great Rsis ; 1 am the one-sy llablcd sound 
*otk-Mni' in speech; 1 am the japa~yajna, among Yajhas; and 
from ameng the immoveable (that is, steady ) things, I am 
the Himalaya; 



1074 


GiTA-RAHASYA OR KARMA-YOGA 


n^woit T%^Rr 51%: n ii 

JTm^rfn^gR I 

q^RfT 5 T?:faTf ^ 5 T?:TTW 5 [ II n 

srig^Rmt ^ 1 

snrqajTRq wormr^r qrg%: 11 ^<: u 
aTq?a[^% ^rqRT q^oTr qi^^Tin q 1 
f^oiUT^r qq: ^qqmqfq n R\ \\ 

[ The serftence “ I am the japii-ijajtla among the Yajaas ” 
is of importance. In the Anu-gita, it is stated that 
“ yajnanam hutam ultatnarn ” that is, “ out of the Yajhas, 
that Yajila, which consists of offering ‘ havi ’ (into the fire) 
is the most important ” (Ma. Bha. Asva. 44. 8); and the 
same is the opinion of Vedic ritualists ; but, as the nania- 
yajna or the japa-yajTia is of greater importance than the 
havir-yujna in the Path of Devotion, the words “ yajilanUm 
japa-yajflQi^mi'' have appeared in the Gita. Manu has 
stated in one place (2.87) that:—“whatever else the 
Brahmin may do or not do, he attains Release by japa 
(silent meditation) alone. The reading in the Bhagavata 
is “ yajHaimn hrahmayajiVoharn ”—] 

(26) among the trees, the aivattha (tlmt is, the pippal) tree; 
Narada, among the god-Rsis; Citraratlia, among the Gandhar- 
vas; Kapila Muni, among the Siddlias; (27) and the 
Uccaisravas horse, which came into existence at the time 
of the churning for nectar, among horses; know that I am 
all these; the airavata, among the excellent elephants; and 
the king, among men. (28) I, the sword, among instruments 
of war-fare; lam the hama-dhenu among cows; and I am 
Kama, which is responsible for the creation of progeny; 
I am Vasuki among the serpents; (29) I am Ananta 
among the naga-s; I, Varuna, among the yddas, (that is, 
the aquatic creatures); and I am the aryamd among the 
ancestors; I am Yama, among those, who regulate. 

[ The meanings of Vasuki as the ‘ king of serpents ’ and 
of Ananta as ‘ Sesa ’ are to be found in the Amarakosa, 





GITA, TRANSLATION & COMMENTARY, OH. X 1075 


gnroif ^ «Tr%^ n u 

q^mirreir Tm: i 

fT'^Tort ^1(1^3 hRjt ^sft u » 

^*frinmTT??:7rra Jn:4 #cn Hq4'< ' 

3TK?TTrTTf%srT T^STT ^TT?: ST^rmTfH; » U 

;is also ill the MuluUiharuta (Ma, Bha. Adi. 'i5-39). But 
one cannot definitely say what, the ditforoiice between 
naga-'.i .iiid serpont;;, is. in the Astikopakh} ana of the 
Mahabliavata, these words have been used as synonymous; 
but the use of the words ‘ narpa ' and ‘ nur/a ' in this place, 
.shows tiiat two different kinds of the common clas,s of 
sarpent.s are intended. It is stated in Sridhara’s com¬ 
mentary that the ‘ K8.rpeut ’ is poisonous, and the ‘ mga ’, 
non-poisonous; and in the Ramanu.iabhasya, tho distinction 
is made by .saying tliat .sor{)ents liavo only one head, and 
mdf/a-.s have many heads; but, Itotii these di,“cinctions do 
not seem to me correct; because, in some places, in 
mentioning the important families among the naga-s, 
Atlanta and Yasuki arc both mentioned in tin beginning; 
and bi.:th are de,scriiied as being many-headod and 
poisonou:!, Init Ananta is doscrihod a.s fire-coloured and 
Yasuki as yellow-coloiiiMd, 3'he reading in thi Bhagavata 
is the ,‘iinie as in the Gita.] 

(30) And [ am Prahlada among the demons; L, Kala, among 
the swallowcrs-up; and I, tlie ‘ (that is, the lion) 

among the animals; and tlie eagle, among birtls. (31) lam 
the wind, among the speeders. 1 (am) Rama, among 
arms-bearers; I am the alligator, among fishes; and the 
Bhagirathi, among the rivers. (32) O Arjuna ! I am the 
origin, the middle and the end of the entire creation; 
Mctaphy,sic.s, among all sciences; I, the logic of all 
controversialists. 

fit has been stated in the 20th stanza above, that the 
Blessed laird is the origin of all activated (sac iana) things; 
and He now .says, that He is the beginning, middle, and 




1076 


GlTA-RAHASYA OR KARMA-YOGA 


ST^onTT^I^RJT sr5=g* ^TTJTTf%^^?I ^ I 

II II 

’ir^t vri^rnt^ I 

^r^oir gm*. ii h 

f^nr cTsur ^r^rf irr^rsfr i 

m^rirf irr^^^ft^fs^gcjirr n n 

end of the entire moveable and immoveable creation ; this 
is the distinction. ] 

(33) I am tha aMra (the letter ‘a’), among the letters;, 
and among compounds, lam the {icbhaya-pada-pradlinna),. 
(that is, copulative—^Trans.) ‘dvai'ndva’-, I am the in¬ 
exhaustible Time (such as, nimeHa-trmhUyta etc.); lam the 
‘ sarvatomukha' (that is, having mouths or faces on all the 
four sides) ‘dhatd’ ( creator—Trans.) or Brabmadeva. (34) 1. 
am death, the destroyer of all; and 1 am the origin of all 
to be born in the future; among females, I am fame» 
fortune, speech, ‘ivnWf’(that is, memory—Trans.), ‘ medha 
(that is, intellect—Trans.), ‘dhiii’ (that is, courage—Trans.) 
and ‘ksamd’ (that is, forgiveness—Trans.). 

[The words 'klrti’, ‘srV, etc., indicate the several 

respective deities. The five out of these, excepting speech 
and forgiveness, and the other five ( pusti, sraddhH, kritju, 
lajjd, and mati, (that is, sound-bodiediias-s, faith, action, 
shame, and understanding), these ten are the daughters 
of Daksa; and, as they had been given in marriage 
to Dharma, they are all described as dharma-patnus” 
in the Mahabharata (Adi. 66.13, 14).] 

(35) Similarly, among the Sama, (that is, those Vedic 
hymns, which are to be sung) I am the Brhatsama; and 
among the metres, I am the Gayatrl-metre; I am Marga- 
slrsa among the months, and the Spring, among the six 
seasons. 

[The first place has been given to the month of Marga- 
sirsa among the months, because, it was usual in those days 
to start with the month of Marga.Vir3a in counting the 
months (Ma, Bha. Anu. 106 and 109 ; Valmfki Ramayana 





GiTA, TRANSLATION & COMMENTARY, OH. X 1077 


3i?f 

^ ^TcnrrTm?^ » n 

55ft5Trfn:?ii 2?Tra: ^vsfHng^ gjfr*»» 

iR^dlRl?lT fjf^flMdlH < 

#1 JJgnsrf IfR ^RddUI?*?; II \C II 

^f^lJfTRT 41-11 n't^d'3,'1 l 
^ rl^H f^T =5^r5nR II II 

JR T%^?Tt R^irfRT I - 

qq rst^* IRT II 8o I 


3. 16). There is a similar reference in the Bhagavata (11. 
16. 37). I have pointed out in my book called ‘ Orion ’ that 
the Mrgaslrsa constellation is called the a(jr ihUyani, or, 
‘the constellation at the counnoncoment of the year’; that, 
the Mrga constellation must have got the first j)lace, when 
the coininitation starting with the Mrga constellation was 
in vogue, and that the Margasirsa month must also 
have actiuired importance latar on, on that a( count; and 
I have to refer the reader to that book, 1 an not going 
into the natter here for fear of taking up space.) 

(36) I am the gambling, of those, who deceive; I, the 
brilliance of the brilliant; 1 am the victory (of tl e victorious); 
and I, the determination (of those who an; determined); 
and I, the faithfulness of tlic faithful. (37) Among the 
Yadavas, I am Vasudeva; among the Pandavas, Dhananjaya; 
among the sages too, I am Vyasa; and among the learned, 
lam Sukracarya. (38) lam the rod ( of autlro'ity ) of those, 
who punish; lam the/d/f (that is, the diplomicy) of those, 
who desire success; and among (all) mysteries 1 am silence. 
I am the knowledge of the knowers. (39) Similarly, 
O Arjuna ! lam the seed of all created beings; and there 
is not a single moveable or immoveable being, which can 
exist without Me. (40) O Para,ntapa ! there is no end 
to My divine manifestations; 1 have racntioncc this e.xpanse 
of My emanations merely directionall)'. 



1078 


GiTA-RAHASYA OR KARMA-YOGA 


II 8? II 

3TW ITT^ cnR#T I 

RHRTt U 8^ U 

?% ^Mi«t*irQ 

: II ?0 II 

[ Having Jthus mentioned His principal emanations, the 
Blessed Lord now summarises the chapter—] 

(41) Anything whatever, which is invested with power, 
glor)'', or splendour, has come into existence out of a portion 
of My brilliance. (42) Or, O Arjuna ! what use have you 
for knowing all this emanation ? (To tell you the whole, 
in short) by (only) one portion of Myself, have I pervaded 
the whole of this Cosmos. 

[The last stanza i.s based on the rca “paikMya visva 
bhutard tripUdanya ' niTtam dm " (Rg. 10. 90. 3) from 
the Purusa-Siikta ; and this hymn has also appeared in the 
Chandogyopanisad (Chan. 3. 13.6), The meaning of the 
word ‘ athsa' has been explained at the end of Chapter IX 
of the Gita-Rahasya (see pp. 338 to 343), to which the 
reader is referred. If the Blessed Lord has pervaded the 
whole of this universe with only a portion of Himself, it 
is quite clear that the entire emanation of the Blessed 
Tjord must be still greater; and this last stanza has been 
added only to make that clear. In the Purusa-Sukta, it is 
stated that “ etdvan asija rnahhna ’to jyayams ca purumh ”, 
that is, “ this is only a description of His greatness, the 
Purusa Himself is much greater than this”. ] 

Thus ends the tenth chapter entitled Vibhuti-Yoga in 
the dialogue between SrT Krsna and Arjuna on the Yoga 
included in the Science of the Brahman, (that is, the 
Karma-Yoga) in the Upanisad sung (that is, told) by the 
Blessed Lord. 




§§ ywJTiqifqmiTcTq: i 

qT^ratrS iTTfTSq ^^ II \ II 

tTqr:q41 HfTnrf fq^fR5Tt qqr i 

?qTf ; ^HrfMiTT^ *TT?Tf*qqTq ^rTc?l?iq II ^ II 
Mfld4J«rT?>!J jqJTTfTTR qripq^ I 
?gi*f^5iim % 5»?qTfnT n ^ n 

JT?q% qf^ dx^jqq qqT q?fimT qqT i 

qm ?q q^qTrRRqcqqq ii % ii 
CHAPTER XI. 


[After tlu! Blessed Lord had drtscribed His own mani¬ 
festations in the last chapter, Arjutia was filled with the 
desire of seeing tins Losinic \''orm\(viscarnm)-, and the 
description given in this chapter "of the iilosmic Form 
shown by the Blessed Tjord to Arjuna, at his request, is so 
entrancing that it is looketl upon as an exc( llont part of 
the Gila; and tlioso who have written the other Gltfis, 
have copied it. To begin with, Arjuna asks at follows—] 
Arjuna said: —(1) That greatest mystic sm knowm as 

‘Adliyatma' (that is, Mctapliysics—Trans. , which You 
explained to me in order to sliow favour to mo. lias destroyed 
my ignorance. (2) In the same way, O I'liou with eyes 
like lotus-leaves ! 1 have heard from You i i detail about 
the origin and the end of all created beings and about (Your) 
inexliaustiblc greatness. (3) (.Xow) O Paramesvara 1 as You 
have thus described Yourself, in that way, O Purusottama ! 
I wish to see (actually) Your divine form. (4j O Lord! 
if you think that it is possible for me to see such a form, 
then, O Yogesvara ! show me Your imperishable form. 

[Arjuna has, in the first stan/.a, signified by the word 
'adhtjd'inn', the Knowledge of the imperishable or the 
imperceptible form of the J’aramosvara, which was 
de.scribod by the Blessed Lord in Chapters YII and VllI 



1080 


GiTA-RAHASYA OR KARMA-YOGA 




§§ ^ wfoi ^TcT^svsr i 

q??nWfTOT ^ITTcT H % II 


and the Knowledge of the various perceptible forms 
mentioned in Chap. IX and X, after He had started 
explaining Jhana and Vijhana in Chap. VII; and the 
words “ the origin and the end of all created beings” in 
stanza 8, refer to the description of how numerous 
perceptible objects come out of one Imperceptible, which 
has been given in Chap. VII (7. 4-15), Chap. VIII (8. 16-21) 
and Chap. IX (9. 4-8), Some commentators consider the 
two halves of the third stanza as two independent sentences 
and interpret them as follows; “ O Paramesvara! that 
description of Yourself, which You have given (of 
Your form) is true (that is, I have understood it). Now, 

O Purusottama, I desire to see Your divine form” (see Gi. 
10. 14). But, it is better to consider the two halves as 
making up one sentence; and that has been done in the 
Paramarthaprapa commentary. The word “ yogesvara ” 
in the 4th stanza means “ the Isvara or Lord of Yoga, 
(not of Yogins), (Gi. 18. 75). The interpretation of the 
word ‘ Yoga ’ as the power or device of creating the 
perceptible universe from the Imperceptible has appeared 
before (Gl. 7. 25 and 9. 5); and as the Blessed Lord is now 
going to show His Cosmic B’orm by the use of that power, 
the appellation ‘ Yogesvara ’ seems to have been used 
here intentionally. ] 

The Blessed Lord said ;—(5) O Partha ! look at these 
thousands and thousands of My forms, of various kinds, 
of various colours, and of various sizes. (6) See these 
(twelve) Suns, (eight) Vasus, (eleven) Rudras, (two) 
Asvinikumaras, as also ( forty-nine) Marudganas. OBhSrata! 
see these wonders which you have never before seen. 



GITA, TRANSLATION & aiMMENTARf, CH.XI 1081 


'snTrfrf^ • 

51 g W ?Tq?ra 'sjefJT^Wq ^^?jqT I 
f^ ^ 5Tm%»gR53:«<« 

3qi=q 1 


§§ Heft TT^Tr^i^rip^ i 

#?rTrn^ qr^jTii irm wf^*3[ u « 


riTJTqn^^n-siTwr 


II ?,c n 


[ The deseriptioti of the Cosmic Form {vikvurupa) shown, 
to Narada in the Narayaniya doctrine is riora specific; 
and says that the twelve Suns were on the left side; 
the eight Vasus, in the front; tlie eleven Eudras, on the 
right side; and the Asviniknmaras, at the beck (San. 339. 
50-53), But this description does not seem to have been 
accepted everywhere (See Ma. Bha. 11. 130). The Adityas, 
Vasus, Rudras, Asvinikumaras, and Marudganas are Vedic 
deities, and a division into four cla.s.seB among them has 
been made in the Mahabharata l)y saying thao the Adityas 
were Ksatriyas; the Marudganas, Vaisyss; and the 
Asvinikumaras, Sudras (San. 308. 33, 34). See also 

Satapatha-brahniana, 14. 4. 3. 33. ] 


(7) O Gudakesa! tlic entire moveable and immoveable 
universe, which has been collected licrc to-day, and whatever 
else you may desire to sec, see iliat in (ths) My Form! 

(8) But, witli this vision of yours, you wdT. not be able 
to see Me. Tliercfore, I am giving to you a supernatural 
vision; (by it) see this My divine Yoga (that is, Yogic 
Power), 

Sah jaya said : —(9) Having spoken thus, O Dhrtarastra ! 
the great Lord of Yoga, namely, Hari, showed to Arjuna 
(His) c.xcellent divine form (that is, the Cosmic Form or 
visvarupa). (10) To that (that is, to that ('osmic Form), 
there were innumertible mouths and eyes, and many 
wonderful sights were to be seen in it; (and) on it there 



GiTA-RAHASYA OR KARMA-YOGA 


108iJ 


\\\l» 

^qntTflriOrrT I 

?rf| ■*tt: ir^iTJr wl^w 

cTt^4 ^iTTrr|>r^5T StOWKIR^MT I 

^TOR qro^cT€rT^ 11 II 


cTrT* I^^HJUNSI fSTiWT *• I 

!nR3T ftrw ^ II ta n 


3rf^ :3^=^ I 

§§ q ^^i i iff ?€rf€rT^ ’prefrecmr »|rT^TOfT?^ i 
d6< i « n f p?f ^“rargr^rrsi f^?TT53[ ii ii 

q^mfir rqf ^^ssTTtT^q*^ i 

sTT?^ 7[ jTiq ^ q??irfii u m n 

were shilling ornaments of numerous kinds and there were 
erected (shining) in it numerous instruments of warfare. 
(11) To that, endless, all-facing and wonderful deity was 
applied an unguent of celestial smell, and it wore celestial 
flowers and clothes. (12) If the ciTulgencc of a thousand 
suns arose at onee in tlie firmament, it would be somewhat 
like the brilliance of this great Atman. (13) Arjuna then 
saw that in this Body of the God of gods, tlie world, divided 
into numerous divisions, was to be seen synthesised. 
(14) Then, being filled with surprise, the hairs on his body 
rose; and joining his hands and lifting them to his forehead, 
Arjuna said to the God—] 

Arjuna Siiid: —(15) O Lord ! in this Your body, I can 
see all the gods, and collections of various kinds of created 
beings, as also Brahmadeva, the lord (of all gods) seated 
on a lotus-seat, all Rsis, and also all brilliant serpents 
(including Vasuki and others). (16) I see, on all sides, You 
of endless form. Who have innumerable arms, innumerable 
stomachs, innumerable mouths, and innumerable eyes.. 





GiTA, TKANSLATION&COMMENTA.RY, XI 1083^ 


%Cri%5T ^ < 

rSlt f HJFJTT?: ffHT5TQ!r%f^*TSfJr?T*l« " 

rsm^ ^itrTc?! ^K > 

rcRH^T^n ^TpSrcT^lTrHT ^^fTST??^ JTrTT ^ >' 

3T^I^*T';WcW^?cT?fr4Hif»f^’?li ( 

q^^T^^T r^f rTfI?tT*^ »< \% >l 

?rRT^'i!^?irR?»T7cTT t 1[ s?im ' 

SfT^ci ^qgiT ?T%^ 55rqfq4 qcqmcT *T'$ir«^ '< »' 

3Tjff fl rqf T %t%^fcTT: qriJQ5?ft'goTf?cT I 

w W^lw 

O Lord of the Cosmos ! O Gosinic-formcd! I do not see 
(anywhere) either Your end, or Your middle, or Your 
beginning, (17) 1 see everywhere, You, Who are wearing 
a diadem, find holding a mace, and a discus, Whjse cffulgouce 
is spread out in all directions, Who iire a mountain of 
brilliance, unbearably hot, offulgcrit like Fire and the Sun, 
impossible to look at by the eyes, and bounedess (-ly per¬ 
vading). (18) I think that You are the ultimate Knowablc, 
the impcrishalilc Brahman, the ultimate support of this 
Cosmos; that You arc imperishable, and the protector of 
the permanent religion, and tire eternal Spirii,. (19) 1 see 
that You, Who have no beginning, middle, or end. Who have 
innumerable arms, Whose eyes are the Sun and the Moon, 
Whose mouth is burning Fire, and Who possess in¬ 
exhaustible strength, are giving warmth to this world by 
Your own shine. (20) Because, the (cnt;rc) distance 
between tlie earth and the firmament, as also ad the cardinal 
points, have been pervaded by You alone; anc, seeing tliis 
Your wonderful and terrible Form, O Great Atrnan! the 
three spheres are confused (by terror). (21) See! these 
multitudes of gods arc entering Your body; (and) some, 
being frightened, are praying to You with folded arms; and 
multitudes of great Rsis and Perfect beings are praising 




1084 


GITA-RAHASYA OR KARMA-YOGA 


^ ^ ^r^'^rr iT^rT^ir>TT^ < 

?srf f^r^Hfrrtrsr ti ti 

Tr^% ^ggr^sT^ii ir^r^r^r ^rf • 

^fr !T55rRT.=Tr5cT?jrsfq; u ti 

ftHUff^^roT 5!rrTTr5T^ i 

T5 r^Tf !Ts?Tna<Tr?.=T?:r?JTf jt far??rGr ^ ftsnfr ii^sh 
fgT^lT^rT% ^ ?fcT ^r^R^^RMTT% I 

5T ^T?r 5T ?rM srmf 5TiTr%^ra n n 
You, utterii^jj such words as ‘ .wusli'‘ svasii’I (22) Sirnilarl)'-, 
the Rudras, the Adityas, and the Vasus, as also the Sadhya- 
ganas, the Visvedeva-s, (both) the Asviuikumaras, the Marud- 
ganas, aud the Usinapa-s (that is, the aticcstors ) and groups 
of Gatulharvas, Yaksas, Rfiksasas, and Siddhas, being 
astonished, are everywhere, looking at you. 

[The food offered to the ancestors in the performance of 
the death-anniversary ceremony is accepted by them only 
while it is hot; that is why they are called “ ti^mapa-B" 
(Manu. 3. 237); and the Manu-yinrti enumerates seven 
groups of ancestors, such as, soiiiamil, anni.wulta, harhimd, 
somipa, havifinian, dji/apa, and m/aiU'ii (3. 194-200). Aditya-s 
and others are Vedic deities. See stanza 6 above. It is 
stated in the Brliadaranyakopanisad that the eight Va.sus, 
eleven Rudras, twelve Adityas, Indra, and Prcajapati make 
in all thirty-three god.s; and their names and etymology 
have been stated in the Mahabharala, Adi-parva, Ch. 65 
and 66 and Santi-parva Ch. 208.j 
(23) O Mahabaho ! by seeing this Your immense, mauy- 
mouthed, many-cyed, inany-arined, many-thighed, many¬ 
footed, many-stomached, and maiiy-teethed—and conse¬ 
quently terrible—Form, everybody attd I myself are 
frightened. (24) Seeing You, heaven-reaching, brilliant, 
many-liued, open-mouthed, and with tremendous and shining 
eyes, ray heart has become restless; aud, on that account, 
O Vi.snu ! I have lost both courage aud peace. (35) And 
seeing these mouths of Yours, which are terrible on account 
of rows of teeth, and are like the Destructional Fire, I cannot 





GITA, TRANHLAl'ION & COMMENTARY, OH. XI 1085 


3Tiff ^ 35rr. J • 

^'rop ^.cT^sr^rT^rs# ?fragi5% « « 

sT^srrrot ^ r^HiirraTr rlfsTf^cT t^fT^royrf^T i 

%f%f|?T5Tr ^5T^r??T^f ^fart^wt: i> u 

^'^ir ?Tff5TT w^^rsTi^JTft i 

cTvjr rT^iTifr 5TT:^'r^CfTr r?t^(T ?rfarni2jn3rn7^:7^cT ii ii 
^'■ar srfffT qa'f r fq^r^fr ^TT^rrq i 

^t^Tiq ^*fqTRcTqriq qq^ifor w w 

^15?!^ qHRfT* ^R?fTrctf'l^r7^qqr?q?%3q^f^. I 
^3f(fiH:r’i:q ^q?HPHT ^r^^qqrqp qrrqr?cT fq^nTr ii ^o u 
sdRjqff^ is ^r ^fiqigq^qr ^iiirs^^g h I 

T^iTfgfiT^^rm ’qq??Tqm sT ?Tq q^RTq ii li 

make out the cardinal directions, and I have become 
discomposed. O God of gods ! O Cosmos-iPervader! be 
appeased ! (26) See how all tlicsc sons of Dhrearastra, with 

jvmltitiulc? of kings, this lihTsina, Drona, and also this Sutu- 
putra (K:irna), togcLlior also witli the inoit prominent 
warriors on our side, (27) arc rapidly enter ng into these 
many terr ble mouths of Yours, with frightful re ws of teeth; 
and the [leads of some of them are seen being crushed, as a 
result of having come between Your teeth. (2 !) Just as the 
many waves of the waters of a river rush towards the sea, 
£iO arc these warriors from tlie wmrltl of huiiians entering 
Your several burning mouths. (2*1) Just as butterflies jump 
with great speed into the ignited fire, only to be killed, 
so also arc all (these) people entering Ycur numerous 
mouths, with great velocity, only to be killed. (30) O 
Visnu ! You arc licking Your tongues, wid e swallowing 
all persons around You, through Youi fiime-filled 
mouths ! and, pervading the entire univers:, Your fiery 
effulgence is shining (in all directions). (31) I'eH me Who 
You arc, Who have assumed this frightful form ! O Super- 
excellent God of gods ! I bow down to You ! iic appeased ! 
1 am dcsiiQus of knowing what Fundamental Spirit You are, 
because 1 do not (at all) understand this doing cf Yours ! 



1086 


GITA-RAHASYA OK KARMA-YOGA 


§§*1^sR 47 ^f^I^rrr53I*!5 STl^- > 

rcTf 5T ^frf^qRtT ^'4 gi^ir^'acTT: JTr?isfr4;5 

fT^frergRTg ?i?fT nTf?R ?t 54 i 

f^^rTP f4fflTTJTf4 ^c^I^T^si: II H 

^ ^ ^Ornt ^ ^ fT'-aTS??TRr4 4nj4kpi i 

?T?TT ^rTf^4 ^1^ JTT S?TPagf itcTfT% ?:ai ^^rSTHi: ii^aii 

Tlie Blessed Lord said ;—(32) 1 ain llic destroyer of all 
peoples; 1 am imineiisilicd "A’d/a” (th:i,t is, ‘death’—Trans.); 
and I have come horc for ilcstroying everyone. Even if 
you are not there, (that is, even if yon do not do anythin;;), 
all these dilferent warriors, standing in the various armies, 
are all going to be no more (going to die). (3.i) ‘ lasmat' 
(that isi‘therefore’—Trans.), arise! win sueccss 1 and 
conquering your enemies enjoy opulent kingdoms ! 1 have 

already killed these in advanec. (Therefore) O Savyas'icin 
(Arjuna ) ! do you (conn; forward to) become the nominal 
cause. (34) Drona and Bhisma and Jayadratha and Karna, 
and also other warriors have been killed by Me (long ago); 
kill tliem ! do not be afraid 1 light! you are going to conquer 
your enemies in tlic liglit ! 

[in short, Sn Knnia ha.s actually .shown to Arjuna, the 
vision of what Blirana had said muruly by words to Him, 
in the Udyoga-parva, when fie had gone to the Kauravas to 
bring about a com[)rt)mise, and Duryodhana would not listen 
to any talk of compromise, n.inufjy, "Ica/dpakruin iiimii/n 
aaruciin kmtnini junardiiwi'' (Mu. Bhfi. IJ. 127.32), that i.s, 
“0 4anardana! all the.se Ksatriyas have already become 
ripe for death {kUlupakra)". (So;; stanzas 2G to 31 above). 
The 33rd stanza emiiKUatos the doctriiu! of Causality that, 
all wicked pensons die as a result of their own acts ; tliat, the 
one, who kills them, is only a noniitral cause; and that, 
therefore, th(' one who kills is not to blame.] 





GITA, TRANST. ATION & COMMENTARY, CH. XI 1087 


1 


§§ oxT^FcR ^=EriT i 

^OT 4'^^Tl^trr•• STBR2T U 11 

3{^ I 


F-UT^r rRI q^^TfiTT 



T^rT% RTrfTR T?5TT ^ H H 


^ ^ ;r%T7TT^rWH[ JRI?!?! ^ST«^TSi:?TTf I 
'iR?rT ?IrI 'I II 


Sunjaya said:—(IS) licitrini>' this spcdh of Kesava, 

Arjiina, gelling extremely frigliteiied, hav iig a choking 
scnsiition in his throat, and trembling, and folding his 
hands, bowed down low again, and said to Sri Krsna. 
Arjuna.said:— (36) O Hvsikesa ! tlie (whole) world is en- 
gladdcncd by singing (Your qualities), and is happy (in 
that); demons becoming frightcnoil of You, r in away in the 
(ten) cardinal direclions, and concerts of .Perfect beings 
arc flowing down before yon. (All) This i; only proper. 
(37) O Noble Soul ! You arc the origin even cf Brahrnadeva, 
arc even superior to him ; why will the\ not worship 
You? O Aiianta ! O God of gods! O Pirvader of the 
Cosmos ' You arc the sat (that is, ‘ imrnui.able ’—Trans.) 
and asa,‘ ( that is, ‘ mutable ’—I'rans.) ; You arc also the 
hiJiRnra (that is, immutable—Trans.), Which is beyond both. 

[It v'ill appear from Gita 7. 24 ; 8. 20 ; or ].5 10 that the 
words ‘.s.'v/’ and ‘ u.s-a/’ in this place meai respectively 
perceptibk- and imperceptible, {nijakfa and avijakta), or 
mutable and immiitahle (/t.ymt ami aksara)-, that Principle, 
which is beyond both sat and astif, has been dsscribed in the 
Gitli, as tfie Immutahlo Brahman {aksara-l>rihiit(i) in the 
words “ J am neither sat nor asul ” (Gita 13. 1!. ). The word 
"akmrc’ is applied in the Gita sometimes to Prakrti and 
sometimes to the Parahrahmaii. Heo my c(mnieiitary on 
Gita 9, 19; 13, 12 ; and 15. Hi.] 



1088 


GiTA-RAHASYA. OR KARMA-YOGA 


trfTm ^ irriT r^T cTcT T^IR^cT^ II H 

5n^*Ttsi?T^^or. ^Tf* snfrqrli^ sTf^cnir?^ i 
smt 5Ti7?^^3 ^?;^frrT- 55 ?^ wsfq ^nfr n u 
smrs^g h ^ 1 

arfFcT^hnirrcTT^^JT^ ^ ^5nmfrf% rmtsT% 11 ao w 

(38) You arc the Fundamental God; (You are) the 
primordial ^Spirit ; You are the supreme Support of this 
universe ; You are the Knower and tlie Knowable ; You are 
the Exalted State ; and You, O I’uidless-formed ! have 
entirely pervaded or occupied (this) Cosmos. (39) Yon are 
Vayu, Yama, Agni, Varinra, Prajapati (that is, Brahmadeva), 
and also the Great-grand-father ! 1 bow down before You 

a thousand times ! and once more again do I bow down 
before You ! 

[Seven mind-born sons, named Marici and other.?, were 
born from Brahmadeva; from Marici, wa.s born Kasyapa ; 
and from Kasyapa, all other progeny. (Ma. Bha. 
Adi. 65. 11); and therefore the.se Marici and others, are 
known as ‘ Prajapatis ’ (the lords of progeny), (San, 340. 65). 
Therefore, the word ‘Prajapati’ is interpretod by .some a,s 
‘ Kasyapa and other Prajapatis But, as the word ‘ Praja¬ 
pati’has been used hero in the singular number, the inter¬ 
pretation of ‘ Prajapati ’ as ‘ Brahmadeva ’ seems more accept¬ 
able. Besides, as Brahmadeva is tlie father of .Marici 
and others, that is, the graiid-fathor (pitumaha ) of all, the 
subsequent expression ‘ great-grand-fathor ’ ( prapitumtlid) 
follows as a matter of c.our.so ; and its propriety becomes 
clear.] 

(40) I prostrate myself before You ; and beliind You ; and on 
all sides, O Soul of everything ! do 1 prostrate myself to 
You. Your procreativencss is incxliaustible. Your prowess 
is incomparable, and as You overceme everyone. You arc 
' sarva ' (tliat is, ‘ all-in-all ’—Trans.). 

[The words “I prostrate myself before you, and behind 
you” show the all-pervasiveness of the Paramesvara. This 



GITA, TUANSLATiON & COM MENTARY, CH. XI 108» 


1 t t I 

ST^JTcTT TTT?*TR mn^orJTJT II 8^ II 

g^lSHrsfT^T‘'aJT^^?fFST% T^rT7T?:?IT^=RWriR5; I 
^^iSvjgntsj’EgfT fTr^JT^ rTf^TF?! rSFF^J5*F^^*I >* *' 

TqrTFSRT JJ^frEFFS^ I 

5F rEFf^JTrS^f?r>:FFr^^-. ^aFS^gi ^F^5T^SCiIirF%J7IF*FFEF5 II l» 
rT^JFFrlFtiFfEr SFroF^FET Wim ST^r?Ef rHFFIF5*ff^*fF55T*F: I 

fq^^F 3 q^q ^f? 3 : tw- t'^f^f^fi^f^ q; n 88 u 

pi-ui^^Q ill tho foriii of prostrations in the Path of Devotion 
is consistent with the cliscrii)tiuns of the Brahman given 
in tho Llpanisads ; c. p., “ hraluiudveditth uinrtc in purastut 
hrahnia pnsviil brdhnia (litkdnnliis coltdretjaX adhdS cordhvam 
c(i prdfiTtain lira/tinaionildin vih'diii /ihiin rariMham II ” (Mnn 
;i. a. 11 ; Chan. 7, -25). J 

(41) Whatever I may luivc said (lisrcspcctfiilly to You, by 
mistake or by lamiliarity, considcrinjr you as n y (riend, not 
recognising this Your greatness, in addressing you as 
'O Krsna ! ’ ‘O Ya lava !’ or ‘O Friend!’, (‘-2) and what¬ 
ever insult 1 may have ofl’ercd to You in joKo when alone 
•with You, or in the presence of others, while eating or 
sporting, or while sleeping or silting, O Acyuta, for that 
forgive me, sucli is my prayer to You, O Immeasurable I 
(43) You. being the father of this moveable and immoveable 
world, are worshippablc, and the Preceptor of preceptors. In 
the tlircc spheres, there is none, who is You; equal ; then, 
O One of immeasurable prowess ! how can ther r be any one 
greater ? (s4) Therefore, to You, Who arc praiseworthy, and 

powerlul, I ]iray ; “ Be appeased”, bending ny body and 
bowing dosvn to You, As a father (forgives Ih; faults) of his 
sou, or a friend (forgives the faults) of his frien 1, in the same 
way O Grd ! the ‘priyak' (that is. Yourself) should 
forgive ‘/riyd\ia' (that is, to me or on account of me, who 
am priya or beloved of You), (all my) faults. 

[Some i)fM'sons interpret tho words “ j>riijuh pnjjuijarhaiti” 
as ” as tho fovor, in the cu.so of a woman, belovsd by him 




1090 


GITA-RAHASYA OR KARMA-YOGA 


But according to me that interpretation is not correct; 
because, the words ‘ priuHiiorliaHi ’ cannot grammatically 
be broken up into pri!juij(ih + arliasi or prujaijai + arhasi ; and 
the word ‘ iva which is indicative of a comi)arison, has ap- 
peared only twice in this stanza. Therefore, it Ls more proper 
to consider ' priijah priyni/arhmi’ as the subject-matter of 
comparison ( upanwya ) instead of looking upon it as a third 
comparison. It would have been much better if there had 
been a word in the possessive case, such as, ‘ priyasya' (of 
the ‘ priya ’) iri the subject-matter of comparison ( upnmt^ya ), 
like the two comparisonal (upani.avrilinukd) words ‘of the 
son ’ ( puim.vj(i ), ‘ of the friend’ ( aakliyiih.), whic;h are in the 
possessive case. But we must here follow the rule 
" sthitaHya (jdUs dnlunhja Imagining an ungrammatical 
feminine possessive case word like ‘ pnyayah \ because the 
masculine-gendor-sixtli-cased word ‘ irriyastja ’ is not to be 
found in the text, and imagining the word ‘ iva ' as implied, 
because that description does not apply to Arjuna, and 
inventing a third comparison a.-!, “ /rriyah pnyayah”, that 
is, ‘ as the lover in the case of a woman beloved by him’ 
—which moreover is amorous, and totally out of place—is, 
according to me, not proper. Besides, if all the three 
words ‘ putrasya ’, ‘ tiakhyuh ' and ‘ priyayah ’ go into the 
class of the standards of comparison ( iipamava ), then there 
remains no word in tlio p(.issossive case in the subject-mattor 
of comparison ( upanwya ); and we have again to take ‘ me’ 
or ‘ mama ’ (that is, ‘ to me ’) as implied ; and if, with all 
this trouble, one brings about a similarity of inflections 
or case-terminations between the subject-matter of com¬ 
parison and the standard of comparison, a new mistake 
of difference of gender between the two again arises. On 
the other hand, if one break.s up the .sentence, plainly and 
grammatically, as priyaya + ar/uisi, the only objection which 
romain.s, i,s that, instead of having the po.s,sessivo case 
’priyasya we have the dative case ’priyaya' in the subject- 
matter of comparison ; and that too is not a very serious 
fault. Because, in this place the dative case conveys the 
same meaning as the possessive case, and such u.se is to 
be seen in other places also. This stanza has l)een 




GITA, TRANSLATION & COMMENTARY, CH. XI 1091 


irgcfTSf^H ^ ?RI ^ » 

N ^«T sr^ff n i» 

f^"lf?ST »I(^ST r^r rltlJI I 

^%ci ^qoi II » 

§§nqr qic ?I%rWrr3W?fmT^ I 

N?fr ST SaSL-lH <1 avs n 

JT ^ l%?Tn'^iT rrqrfM^i'd: I 

trq^q: 3?^ ^ rciq?qJT ii ad ll 

nr ^ cn'-aT ni ^ ^ NRirr^^nn^ i 

c^rqrrnr- aRm^rr. ^sr^rq ci?q n siq^^r n h 

intorproted in tlu; Panundrlluiprafxa coinniei tary in the 
same way as I luivo domi. j 

(15) Having seen that which no oi\c has evi-r seen, 1 am 
glad ; and my mind is strained by fear. O I ervader of the 
Cosmos! O t iod of gods ! bo appeased! and O (iod ! show me 
Your previous form. (16) I desire to see Yoi wearing the 
‘ kirlta’ (that is, diadem—Trans.) ;iud the mace, with a discus 
in Your hand, as before; and tlidrcforc, O Cosmic-Forraed, 
thousaad-armod Lord, appear again in that Your lour-armed 
form. 

The Blessed Lord said :—(47) O Arjuna! having become 
pleased (with you), exercising my power of Yoga, I have 
shown ycu this brilliant, bcginning-lcss, endh ss, primeval, 
and supciscxccllcnt Cosmic Form, wlrich no one else before 
you has seen. (48) O liiglicst aniong the Kuru warriors I 
no other than you can liavc a chance of seeing, wlicther by 
Llic Vedas, or by Yajfias, or by sihmt meditation, or by 
charity, or by ritual, or by severe austerity, t lis such My 
Form, in this human world. (19) Do not allow your mind 
to suffer pain by seeing this My terrible form ! and do not 
also become confused by fear. Giving up fei r, and with 
a pleased fr.imc of mind, see again that same form of Mine. 



1092 


GlTA-BAHASYA OK KARMA-YOGA 


?r?T^ST ^^?I^?T‘4t^rarT ^'T I 

31:^^ 3':(R 1 

*TT3^ ^JTT??I I 

’^^rTi: STI^m nfi: n il 

WHUgR^r^ I 

§§ €S^TT5Tf% ^JTH 1 

q5T?Tq)TT|in: II II 

Sanjaya said :—(50) Spciikiti" thus, Vasudcva again showed 
to Arjuna His (former) form; and assuming again His 
peaceful form, that Xoblc Soul gave encouragement to the 
frightened Arjuna. 

[ The metre of these ;16 stanzas, is the same as that of 
stanzas 5 to 8, 20, 22, 29, and 70 of tJhaptev fl, stanzas 
9,10,11 and 28 of Chapter VJff, stanzas 20 and 21 of 
Chapter IX, and stanzas 2 to 5 and 15 of Chapter XV, 
namely, of eleven letters in each (puirter (amimi.). But, 
as they are not governed by one and the same rule about 
the feet {gnud), those stanzas cannot be recited in the 
same way as can stanzas in the hi'lra-vajrU, ivpimdru-vrijra 
upajati, dodhakn, salmi a.nd other metres used in the poetical 
compositions of Kalidasa and others. Needless to say, 
this metrical arrangement is archaic ( drg<i ), that is, on 
the basis of the ‘Iristup’ metres used in the Veda-Bamhitas. 
This fortifies the proisosition that the Gita must be very 
ancient indeed (see p, 726 of the A]spendix to the Gita- 
Rahasya.] 

Arjuna said ;—(51) O Janardaua ! seeing this Your mild 
and humiui-bodicd form, my mind is again in its proper place, 
and I have become conscious, as before. 

The Blessed Lord said ;—(52) This My form, which you 
have seen, is very difficult to see. liven the gods always 





GITA, TRANSLATION & COMMENTARY, CH. XI 1093 


rTT^T ?r ^T%5T ST I 

Oisfr^^Tf m TOfSTT% nf ?T'<iIT « 0 

'O 

Til^T r5I^?T?Tr 3TWiigr%'iTiS^ST I 
flit ^ rTr^iT ST^| ^ q'trTT II '^8 II 

§§ Trr^^?H?'T?:rrf JT^tR: i 

ff!^: w> ^ nwRi qro^Ei n ti 

desire to sec this form. (53) It is not possible for any one 
to see Mc) :i.9 yon have seen Me, whether b / Vedas, or by 
austerity, or by charity, or by Yajilas. (54) O Arjuna ! only 
by exclusive devotion, is it possible to thus acquire 
knowledge of Me, and O Farautapa! to enter Me essentially. 

[The proposition that by Dovotioiijlone first requires the 
Knowledge of the Parainesvara, and ultiniataiy the devotee 
is luorged into the Paramos vara, ha.s appeari cl before in 
Gltll 4, 9 and later on in IS. 55 ; and the readoj is I’ofeiTed 
to the explanation given by -ine in Chapter XIII of the 
Gita-Ruhasya at pp. 595 to 599, Now, the Blessed Lord 
briefly explain,s to Arjuna thesnnimary of the entire Gita-- -] 

(55) Who performs Action with the con\ iction that all 
Actions arc Mine (that is, of tiie Paramcsvrra), who is 
devoted to Me , who is attacliincnt-icss , non-mi nical towards 
all beings, such My devotee, O Panctava, comes and 
reaches Me! 

[The above stanxa means tbai, (i) the dt v rteo of the 
Blessed Lord should perform all worldly Action.'^ with the idea 
of dedicating them to tlie I’aramesvara, that is 1o say, with a 
prideless frame of mind, thinking that, the e.idire activity 
in the world is (.)f the Paramosvara, who is the true Doer, and 
the One, Who truly cau.ses to he done; but that. He gets 
these actions done tlirongh us, by making us t le nominal 
causes ; and that, (11) thereby, all acts, whicli ai e done, do 
not obstruct tranciuillily or .Release (sco .stanza 3b); and it is 
stated evcai in the Saihkarabbasya that this stall ■,a contains 
the summary of tlu; entire iihilosopliy of the f llta. Tliis 
clearly .shows that the Jhitli of Hovotion prescri led in the 



1094 


GITA-RAHASYA OR KARMA-YOGA 


w5H%iRr ^rnr^i# sftffwirr- 

4?r^crT% vttjt u ?? n 

Gita doGB not advise one to sit down doing nothing, and 
only saying ‘Hari ’ ‘ Hari’(taking the name of God); but 
directs one to do all acts desirelessly, and enthusiastically, 
side by side with possessing an ardent devotion. In order to 
make it clear that the word ‘ wrmm’ (non-inimical), does 
not here mean ‘ //is/aV//a’(actionless) as Interpreted by those 
who follow the Patii of Renunciation, the adjective ‘ nial- 
kannakTt ' (that is, doing all acts with the idea of dedicating 
them to the Parainesvara, and believing that the acts az‘e 
of the Parainesvara, and not one’s own) has been added ; 
hut as this matter has been extensively considered by me 
in Chap. Xlf of the Glta-Rahasya (pp. 545 to 556), I am 
not going to discuss it further here. 

Thus ends the eleventh cliapter entitled Vis'varupa- 
Dars'ana Yoga in the dialogue between Sri Krsna and 
Arjuna on the Yoga, included in. the Science of the Brahman 
(that is, on the Kanna-Yoga) in the Upanisad sung (that is, 
told) by the Blessed Lord. 





CHAPTER XII. 

[In (]!ha]). Vll, the Ble,sst)d L(3rd has started an 
explanation of the Knipirical and Spiritual Knowledge 
required for acquiring Perfection in Karma-5f)ga; and in 
Chap. V lit, He has explained the form of the Immutable, 
Unshowahle, and Imperceptible Brahman ; and 'thereafter, 
He has started an explanation of the visible rt yal road in 
the shap j of the Path of Devotion ; and after ha\ ing linislied 
the Desc,ription of Manifestations ( vibhuU-vanjana ) and 
the showing of the Cosmic Form {viiiHiraxi-ddrsiLna), 
incidental to that path, in Chapters X and XI, He has, at 
the end of Chapter XI, advised A.rjnna to ])erform all 
Actions with. Devotion and unattachedly, as tae ultimate 
summary of every tiring. Now Arjuna .‘^a.rs; “After 
proving to me in Chapters VHajul Vflt that the Impercept¬ 
ible form of the Paramesvara is the most superior one 
to be worshipped, from the point of view of the Mutable 
and the lirutmtable, f(jr success in Karina-Xoga You have 
prescribed to me the worship of the Impercrpi.ihle or the 
Immutable (7.19 and Jl-1; 8. 'dl); and Yon have advi.sed 
me to fight (8. 7) with a miiu! steeped in Yoga ( i/u/cfa-ii(f<i)-, 
and afterwards in Clrap. iX, after explaining to me the 
visible path of the worship of the Percejitihle, You have 
asked me to perform all Actions with the idea of dedicating 
them to the Paramosvara (9. d7 and 34 ; and 1 .55). Now 
which of these two paths is the bettor oner” In this 
question the ‘ worship of the Perceptible’ moans Devotion ’. 
But, what is meant here is not Devotion to different objects 
of worship ; and it is explained that the true w(.)rj;hip of 
the Perceptible is the Devotion, according to which, there 
is only one All-Pervasive Pararnesvara in all s.ymbols or 
objects of woi'.sliip, whatever symbol or object h taken for 
worship; and that is the kind of Devotion ac vocated in 
this chapter. [ 



1096 


GiTA-RAHASYA OR KARMA-YOGA 


I 

§§ ^rfcTgTTjr % ^TffTR?^ i 

^ ^r:^T^T?^T5^% ^ %> ^irra^;« \ » 

yiHii5nf^=^i I 

§§ JRT ^ ITT ^TT^c! I 

q ^Tfidfli nm*. II II 

^T^5nmT%^=?q =q 11 ^ 11 

^ mc^qf^cT Tn%q ^fn: u « ii 

|^^mcKH<'?dqms'!/Tt)Wd>^cTHn?: i 
3?c?raT 1% qr^'.^ II II 

% 1 ^^TTOT q^JITTOT Hfq #5?!^ • 

a T ?T ?q% q ^rnq qf wnr??? ii ^ ii 

Arjunu siid:—(1) Who me the better knowers of 
(Karma-) Yoga, those devotees who, always becoming 
yuAta (that is, Yagn-yukhi) worship You, or those, who 
worship the aksam (that is, Brahman) ? 

The Blessed Lord said: — {2) In My opinion, those who, 
keeping their minds on Me, and becoming yukta-citla 
(that is, mind-united—Trans.) worship Me, with the highest 
Devotion, arc the best ‘yukla' (that is, Yogins). (3) But 

those, who worship the ali^ara (that is, the Brahman), 
Which is ‘anirdciiK'a’ (that is. Which cannot be actually 
shown). Imperceptible, All-pervading, Unimaginable, 'kutastha' 
(that is. Which is at the root of everything ), Unmoving and 
Non-transient, (4) after Imving controlled their senses and 
become equable-minded towards everytliing, such (persons 
too), who are engrossed in the welfare of all beings, also 
come and reacii Me. (5) Nevertheless, as their mind is 
attached to the Imperceptible, their task is more arduous- 
because (to men, who dwell in a perceptible body) the path 
of worship of the Imperceptible becomes successful with 
difficulty. (6) But those, who worship Me, making u 





GiTA, TRANSLAT ION & COM M. iONTAR Y, CH. XT! 1097 


WTir 5T f^TTr»n'4 R?:?n^ri^'%trFTni II ^ II 
TT?:^ HR I 

V(Z^^ -STTf H -i H 

sai'iiiiv^sd (tliiit is, tlctlioiilion) ol ;ill Aclions lc Me, becoming 
devoted to Me, iind mcditutiiig on Me with ii Yoga (that is, 
union—Traais.) with iii) one else, (7) such persons who 
have become ^ inncciltn’ (tliat is, mind-united with Ale— 
Trans.), O Partlia ! I rctlcem, from this death-bound ocean of 
worldly life without delay, (h) ( Therefore) keep your 
mind fixed on Mo, concentrate your Reason on Me, so that, 
afterwards you will undoubtedly dwell in Me. 

[The supcrioj’ity of tlie Rath of Devotion has been ex- 
poLiaded in this paragraph. After first stating tho proposi¬ 
tion, in stanza :i, that tin: devotees of tho Blessed Lord are 
the bust Yog'ins, the eonjim(‘ti''ii “/a”, wliich shows an 
alternative aspect, has been used in stanza 3; and in that 
and in tlic 4tb stanza, it is statoil that those, vho worship 
the iinperceptihle also come and a.ro merged in Him, It is 
stated in stanza 5, that though tills may he me, the path 
of those wlio worship the rmperceptildo, is more difficult; 
and after explaining in tho (Jtli and 7th stanzas tho 
comiiarativo facility of the worship of tho Porceptihle, 
the advice lias been given to Arjiina nltiim tely in the 
hth stanza to act accordingly. In short, the advice given 
at the end of Cliap. XL (11. 55) has further been emphasised 
hore ill reply to tho (luostion of A.rjuna, As t.he facility of 
the Rath of Devotion ha.s been considored by me in full 
detail ill Cliaptor Xllf of tho Gita-flaha.sya, [ .shall not 
repeat the, same suhjcct-inattor here. I bIuiH only say 
bore that tlumgli tho worship of tho fmporcoptiolo may be 
difficult, yel, it is productive of Release; that, even in 
the Ratli of Devotion, one cannot give up Actions, Imt has 
necessarily to perform them, dedicating them to tho Rarani- 
esvara; and that, the followers of the Path of Devotion 
should bear this in mind. And that is why the words 
“making a ,s‘aA«/yf7.s« (that is, dedication) of all Actions to 






1098 Gl TA-RAHASYA or KARMA-YOGA 

§§ 3T5!j t%tt 5T jti% i 

3T«n^?fl»r5T cTflt JTTW^ijrcg || % u 

3TvqT%St?T^JT5(ifsi% JTf^nqcq'r i 

qjiirfaT n ?o n 

3T0a[^c?i^?K^rsT% ?raf»mTm?T: i 

cTrf‘. ^FTlrlTeTTii: II ?? II 

Me” have been used in tlio sixth stanza, Ihcse words 
clearly mean that in the Path of Devotion, Actions have not 
to be literally given up, hut one has to dedicate tliem, that 
is, their fruit, to tlu* Paramesvara. And, this also makes it 
perfectly clear that the Devotee, whom the Blessed Lord 
has referred to at tlie end of this Ghapter as being dear to 
Him, is to he understood as one, who follows this i)ath, 
that is, the Path of the Desireless Karma-Yoga, and not 
one, who makes a literal mmni/ilsu or Abandonment of 
Action, To proceed: having in this way shown the 
facility and the superiority of the .Path of Devotion, the 
Blessed Lord now explains the moans or devices to he used 
for acquiring such Devotion to the Parame.svara, and 
ultimately gives the differential characteristics of these 
various means—| 

(9) Now, if it is not possilrlc for you to concentrate 
your mind well on Me (in this way), then, O Dhananjaya I 
keep hope of attaining to Me, with the help of austere 
practice, by trying again and again. (10) If it is not possible 
for you even to perform practice, then perform (tlie) Actions 
(such as, Spiritual Knowledge, Meditation, Hymn-singing, 
Worship etc,, which have been mentioned in the Sastras) 
for Me, (that is, for attaining to Me); by performing (these) 
Actions for Me, you will also liavo success. (Ilf But, if 
it is impossible for You even to perform this ritual, then, 
take shelter in ‘ madyoga’ (that is, in ilic Yoga ol dedicating 
everytliing to Me, namely, the Karma-Yoga); and becoming 
a ‘yalalma’ (that is, gradually controlling your mind), 
thereafter (ultimately) abandon the Fruit of all Actions; 




HJTl A, translation & COMMENTARY, OH. XII lOgO’ 


wfr f| iTRJTVTirar^RT? «IR i 

>:?nsTTc^<?T^f^nT^f^rnr5^rf7cT?:^cT?:»^ 11 ? ^ n 

(12) beciiuse, Knowledge is superior to Practice; Meditation 
is superior to Knowledge; and Abandoning the Fruit of 
Action (is superior) to Meditation; and by (this) Abandon¬ 
ment (cf the Fruit of Action), there is (acquire!) tranquillity 
immediately afterwards. 

[These stanzas are very important from the paint of view 
of Karnia-Yoga; and in them, after mentioning austere 
practice, Knowledge, prayer, and other ritual as Ineans for 
successfully acquiring the Devotional Karna-Yoga, a 
differential consideration of the worth of the various 
means has been made ; and in stanza 12, the superiority of 
the Abandonment of the Fruit of Action, that i,s to say, of 
the Desireless Kaiuna-Yoga has been establishtd. It is not 
that this superiority of the Desireless Karma-Yoga has 
been mentioned only in this place ; but, the sane doctrine 
has t)eeu clearly repeated previously in the ihird (3. 8), 
fifth (5. 2) and sixth (6. 46) chapters ; and Arjuna has been 
advised in various places to practise Karma-Yoga in 
the shape of Abandonment of the Fruit of Action (See 
Gita-Rahasya pp. 425 to 427). But those, wl o support a 
doctrine different from the GltS-religion, find this theory 
inconsistent witii theimselves; and they have, therefore, 
attempted to twist the meaning of the above stanzas, and 
especially of the words in the 12th stanza. Those com¬ 
mentators, who support the pure Path of Knowledge, that 
is tc say, the Saihkhya commentators, do no^; like that 
Abandonment of the Fniit of Action should be given a 
higher place than Spiritual Knowledge. They have, therefore, 
said that either the word ‘jmna’ must bo interpreted 
as • meaning ‘ mere bookish knowledge or, that this 
praise of Abandonment of the Fruit of Action is 
merely an ' tv/ihavada’ (See Vol. I p. dl—l’r ins.), that 
is, ‘ fallow praiseIn the same way, those who support 
the Path of Patanjala-Yoga, do not like that Abimdoninent 
of the Fruit of Action should bo given a higher place 
than continued austere practice {ahhi/dsa). And those. 



1100 


GiTA-RAHASYA OR KARMA-YOGA 


who support solely the Path of Devotion, that is, those, who 
say that no Karnra or Action other than Devotion should 
be performed, cannot tolerate Abandonment of the Pruit 
of Action being considered superior to Meditation, that is, 
Devotion. The practice of Karma-Yoga, which includes 
Devotion, which (path) is advocated by the Gita, and which 
is different from the Patanjala-Yoga, the Jhana-Yoga, and 
the Path of Devotion, is at present practically non-existent; 
and therefore, there is no more any commentator available 
.supporting that doctrine. 'I.’herefore, in the now extant com¬ 
mentaries on the Gita, the praise of Abandonment of the 
hruit of Action has been stated to be mere “fallow pi-aise”. 
But, in my opinion, that Is wrong. If one accedes that the 
Gita advocates the De,sireles,s Karma-Y(.>ga, no difficulty 
remains about tlie me^aning of Uiis^stanKa. When once 
it is admitted that o?ic cannot give up Action, and that 
Desireless Action mu.st he performed, tlio Path of Know- 
ledge {jnUiia-morgu ), which advocates the ‘ literal ’ Abandon¬ 
ment of Action, the I'atatijala-Yoga, which advocates only 
the acrobatics of the organs, and the Path of Devotion, which 
gives the go-hye to all Actions, all naturally become 
inferior to Karma-Yoga. W’lien the Desireless Karma- 
Yoga has tlms boon proved to be superior, the only question 
which remains is: wliat are the means for acquiring the 
Equability which is necessary in that path. These means are 
three in number, namely, continued practice (abhyasa), Spiri¬ 
tual K]U)wledge (jam/n) and Meditation (d/qyum)- Out of 
the.se, if some one cannot perform continued practice, 
ho should adopt either of tlie two other mean.s, namely, 
jiianu and ilJti/aiiu ( Knowledge, and Meditation). The Gita 
says that the.se mcan.s are easy of acquiring in the order 
ill which they have been mentioned. But, if the man 
cannot do even this, then stanza 12 says that he should 
begin the practice of Kariiia-Yoga at once. Now, here 
a question arises, nainel.v, how can a man, who cannot 
either perform continued xmactice or acquire Bpiritual Know¬ 
ledge or Meditation, carr.y on the Karma-Yoga ? Therefore,^ 
some commentators have considered calling Karma-Yoga 
tire easiest path as meaningless. But, if one considers 




GiTA, TRANSLATION & COMMENTARY , OH. XH 1101 


the mdttei- a little, it will bo seen that there is no sense 
in this objection. Stanza 12 does not preach that the 
Abandonment of the Fruit of Action should be carried 
out ‘ at a strokeBut, one has first to ad('pt the Kanna- 
Yoga preached by the Blessed Lord; ana, ‘ ta/(ih\ that 
is, ‘tliereafter’, that practice lias to be gradually made 
successful. And when this interxn-etation ii accepted, no 
inconsistency remains. It has been .stated in the previous 
chapters that not only a little practice (Gi. 2. 40) of the 
bruit of Action* (this is a mistake for ‘ Karma- 
Yoga’ --Trans.), iiuteven the desire to perform t fSee Gi. (>. 44 
ind my commentary on it), drag.s a man towirds ultimate 
perfection, as if he had been put into a grinding-rnill. 
'therefore, taking shelter in the Karma-Y( ga, that is, 
getting into one’s mind the desire to folloi/ that patli, is 
the first means or stop towards acquiring success in that 
path; and wlio will say that this means is ne t easier than 
continued practice, or Spiritual Knowledge, o - MeditationV 
.\vid the same is the import of stanza 12. N( t only in the 
Shagavadgita, l.iut even in the Sm-yagita, it is stated that :— 
jnaiidil upilstir ullcrntd kannolkp'ittini up'diundt I 
ifi j/o vPilii vnidnf(uh sa em purusallam<th^\ 

(Sur3 a-Gl, 4. 77) 

that is, “ ‘ iipdsand'i. c., Meditation or Devotion is better 
than Spiritual Knowledge, and Karma, that is, necessarily 
Desirele.ss Action, is better than ‘updmnl’\ one who 
realises this principle of Vedanta should be looked u])on 
as the l)est man ( pw/7t.sf;/h/w/rt)”. In short, i . is the firm 
doctrine of the Bhagavadgita that the Yoga in the form of 
Al)andonment of the b’ruit (jf Action, tlral is to say, 
the Desireless Karma-Yoga, which includes both Spiritual 
Knowledge and Devotion, is the most superior path of all; 
and thi3 argument in stanza 12 is not only consistent with 
tlint opinion, but is in support of it. If per :ons belonging 
to :i particular scliooi of thought do not find this coiiclusiuii 
palataiile or acceptable, they should give it im; but, they 
'■ Tiic word used here iu all oditioiis of the author's toxt is 
karma-phalli’, (that is. Fruit of Aotioii) ; but evidently ‘Karma- 
Yoga’or ‘ karma-2)hala-tyTi(ja’ and not ■kurma-phala’ h meant—Trans. 





1103 


GlTA-RAHASYA OR KARMA-YOGA 


3Tim ^OT ^ I 

fwiH'Rrr. ^ n n 

'^CICI I 

JTEljfTcTWff^^ Tf ^ % fW« l> II 
oii'M^'lig^'Jiri ?r* I 
?r- ^ ^ ^ fiTT* II X'^ II 
3T?Tq^ ^ :3?RfRr JTrTH^IJir. I 
^^WKr?rnft ?TT iT^tfj; ^ ^ rjt H m. n 
?n 5T 5T tfs ^ ^ I 

?r- ^ h fw- ii?^ii 


should not indulge in a useless stretching of meanings. 
To proceed: the Blessed Lord, having thus proved 
Abandonment of the Fruit of Action to be superior, now 
proceeds to describe the equable and peaceable frame of 
mind, which is obtained by one who practises it (and not by 
one, who ‘ literally ’ gives up Action); and He ultimately 
says that a devotee of this kind is exceedingly dear to 
Him—I 

(13) One, who hates no one; wlio behaves in a friendly- 
way towards all created beings; similarly, who is kind, and 
from whom possessiveness and Individuation have departed; 
to whom pain and happiness are the same; and who is 
forgiving, (14) always contented, controlled, determined, 
and who has dedicated his Mind and his Reason to Me, such 
a (Karma-) Yogin devotee of Mine, is beloved of Me. 
(15) One, of (or with) whom others are not tired (or 
disgusted), and who is not tired of others; similarly, who 
is untouched by joy, anger, fear, and discomfiture, is beloved 
of Me. (16) One, who is unexpecting, pure, industrious 
(that is, who performs any Action, giving up idleness), 
indifferent (about the Fruit of Action); whom no emotion 
can upset; and who has given up all commencements (that 
is, activity for desirable fruit), sucli My devotee is very 
dear to Me. (17) One, who experiences no joy (about 
anything), does not hate (anything—Trans.), does not 
regret, and does not even eiUertain any desire; who has 




GITA, TRANSLATION & COMMENTARY, CH. XU 1103 


wr- ^ ^ fTI% ^ rT?IT JTTJTmnRt'- I 

P?ri5T??u^id4Mi ^rgsT ?ist i 

3Tf^%rr. T%'U<*<ld4l4>RI?ii JK*. U \% II 


abandoned the good or had (Fruit of Action), such a devoted 
man is dear to Me. (18) One, to whom enemies and friends, 
also honour and dishonour, heat and cold, pai i and happiness, 
are the same; and w’ho is not attached (^to anything), 
(19) to whom praise and disparagement arc both the same, 
who speaks little, and is contented with whatever he can 
get, wdiosc mind is steady, and who is'at ikeia’ (that is, 
who has no abode in the form of a Desire for the Fruit of 
Action), such a devoted person is dear to Me. 

[The word ‘ tmikela ’ is also very often used in describing 
ascetics, who give up the .state of a householder, renounce 
the world, and roam about begging in fore.sts (Manu, 6. 25); 
and its root meaning is ‘ one who has no i,bode’. There¬ 
fore, commentators, who belong to the School of Renuncia¬ 
tion say that, the words ‘nirim/iia ‘ sarvara'hbha-parityagi * 
and ' anikela ’ used in this chapter, and other such words as 
" tyakfa-sarvaparigrakih’, (4. 21), or ' vivikhisevl' (18. 52), 
prove that the doctrine preached by the Gita is, ‘giving 
up homo, and spending the rest of one’s life desirelessly in 
a forest ’, which is, indeed, the highest ideal of the Path of 
Renunciation ; and in support of this they point to many 
stanzas from the chapters on Renunciation in Mmrti texts. But, 
although these renunciatory interpretations of these words 
from the Gita may be important from tlie point of view 
■of the Path of Renunciation, yet, they are not correct. 
Because, as has been stated by me several times before, 
becoming ‘ mraijni ’ (i. e., not performing Fire-ritual), or 
' niskriijd’ ( i. e., Actionless), does not amount to true 
Renunciation according to the Gita; and the firm doctrine 
of the Gita is, that one must renounce only the Desire for 
Fruit, and never Action (SeeGl. 5. 2 and il. 1, 2). There¬ 
fore, the word ‘auikefa’cannot be interpreted as meaning 
"giving up home and, it must be given a m< aning, which is 




1104 


GiTA-RAHASYA OR KARMA-YOGA 


consistent with the Karma-Yoga of the Gita. In Gl. 4. 20, 
the adjective ‘ nirasruya has been applied to the man, who 
does not entertain the hope for the Kruit of Action; and 
in Gl. 6. 1, the words “ unds/'iVah/ctt?vmp/)a/aw” have lieeii 
used in the same sense. The words ‘ asraya ’ and ‘ nikefa ' 
are synonymous. Therefore, 'aniketa' should not be inter¬ 
preted as meaning ‘ one, who gives up his home and family 
but as ‘ one, whose mind is not engrossed with his home and 
family’. Similarly, the word ‘survanivihlia-parUyagt' in 
stanza 16 is'not to be interpreted as moaning ‘ one, who 
gives up all Action or activity ’, but as meaning ‘ one, who 
gives up desireful commencements of Actions ’, consistently 
with the stanza; “ He, whose ■mmara/'/iblias (that is. Actions) 
are devoid of Desire for Fruit, his actions are reduced to 
ashes by Knowledge” (Gl. 4. 19), as is apparent from 
Gi. IS. 3 and 18. 48 and 49. In short, all that the Gita 
says is that, one, whose Mind is engrossed with household 
affairs, or with his wife and children, or with the other 
affairs of the world, experiences pain on that account later 
on; and that therefore, one should not allow one’s Mind 
to be engrossed in these things; juid the words ‘ anikefa ’ 
and ‘ sarvarat/ihha-parifyagi ’, etc,, have been used in the 
Gita in the descriptions of the Steady-in-Reason 
{sthitaprajila) for describing the renounced state of his 
Reason. It is true that these very words'have been used in the 
Smrti texts in the descriptions given there of Yatins, that 
is, of ascetics who abandon Action; but, on that account 
it cannot be said that the Gita supports Renunciation in 
the shape of the Abandonment of Action ; iiecause, there is, 
side by side, another definite proposition of the Gita, that 
even the Jnanin, whose mind is saturated with this 
Renunciation, should, with this renunciatory frame of 
mind, give up the Fruit of Action, and perform all Actions, 
which befall him according to the Sastras; and it would 
not be correct to assert that the Gita supports the Path of 
Renunciation of Action, relying on words like ‘ aniketa 
etc., suggesting Renunciation, which one come.s across in 
some places in the Gita, without taking into account the 
posterior and anterior contexts.] 



GITA, TRANSLATION & COMMENTARY, OH. XII 1105 


§§ ^ g qgqr^^ i 

*Trq<*TT ^rfJR^SrTiq i( fq?n: II II 

?irr irqfjrqrg HBr%rTqf 

^sfrfJSOTT^q^qrq ¥If%qfiTr sfW gq^^S^qp^: II II 

(20) Those devotees of mine, who follow this nectar¬ 
like doctiiue mentioned above, becoming encrossed in Me,, 
are extremely beloved of Me. 

[The Blessed Lord has in this stanaa given a .description 
of that devotee of His, who is most beloved of Him, that is, 
of the excellent devotee of the Blessed Lord, who is a 
Karma-Yogin, consistently with His previous statement 
that the Devotee, who is also a Jilanin, ::s the most 
excellent of all. (Gi. (i. 4< ; 7. 18). But, in (-Ita 9. 39, the 
Blessed Lord has Iliinsolf said that: “ all are the same to 
Me; such a one is nut dear, and such a one is not hateful”. 
Apparently, this would seem to be a contradic,ion-in-terms. 
But, when one remember.s tliat the one stateim nt has been 
made witli reference to the wor.ship of the I erceptible, or 
relates to the Path of Devotion, whereas the other state¬ 
ment is from the point of view of Metaphysics or from the 
point of view of the Doctrine of Causality, this seeming 
inconsistency disappears. The reader is referred to the 
exposition of this matter made at the end (pp. 598 to 601) 
of Chapter XHT of the Gita-Rabiisya.J 

rims ends the twelfth Chapter entitled Bhakti-Yoga 
in the dialogue between Sri Krsiiu and Arjuna, on the Yoga 
included in the Science of the Brahman (tiiat is, on the 
Karma-Yoga) in the Upani-sad sung (tba' is, told) by 
the Blessed Lord. 






CHAPTER XIII. 

[ It has been proved in the last chapter that though it is 
true that Release can be achieved by meditating on the 
Unshowable (anirdesija) eloA Imperceptible (av;v/aA;ifa) Para- 
mesvara, yet the same Release can be obtained in an 
easier way by devoting oneself to the visible and per- 
■ceptible forpi of the Paramesvara with religious faith, 
and by performing all Actions with the intention of 
dedicating them to Him. But, the explanation about 
Spiritual and Empirical Knowledge, which was started 
in Chapter VII is not finished with that. In order to 
acquire complete Knowledge of the Paramesvara, it is 
necessary to consider the Body and the Atman of man, 
(that is, the ‘ kselfa’ and the ‘ kselmjna') at the same time 
as considering the mutable and immutable external 
universe. Similarly, although one may, in a general way, 
know that all perceptible objects are created from Gross 
Matter, yet the subject-matter of Spiritual and Empirical 
Knowledge is not exhausted unless one has explained by 
what quality of Nature this extensive development takes 
place and what the order of that development is. Therefore, 
the subject-matter of the Body and the Atman has first 
been considered in Chap. XIII; and after describing 
the division of the three constituents in the next four 
chapters, the whole subject-matter has been summed up 
in Chapter XVIII, In short, the third ‘ s(i<jadhtjuyi ’ (group 
of six chapters) is not independent; and the description of 
Spiritual and Empirical Knowledge, requisite for success¬ 
fully acquiring the Karma-Yoga, which was ‘••tarted 
in Chap. VII has been completed in this group of six 
chapters. (See Gita-Rahasya Ch. XIV pp. 457 to 459). 
In every edition of the Gita, the following stanza is to be 
found in the beginning of Chapter XIII, namely,:— 

Arjuna uvaca: 

pmkrtim purusam cairn k^etram ksetrajmm em ca I 

elad vedituin icchami jfidnam jHei/am ca kesava li 



GiTA, TRANSLATION & COMMENTARY, CJI. XIII 1107 

I 

OirTSTr IT SR^: »\ '< 

^rnr w wTR I 

^rtTWR JI7T TW II ^ II 

which means;—“ Arjniia said; I wish to tnow what 
prakrti, purusd, k-'ielra, k^elrajnn, jilana and *jrmja are. 
Therefore, tell inj that”. But, it is quite clea- that some 
one, who has not understood how the Consideration of the 
Body and the Atman has found a place in tlie Gita, has 
subsequently interpolated this stanza ink the Gita. 
Commentators look upon this stanza as an interpolation; 
and if that is not done, the number of stanzas in the Gita 
also ex(!eeds seven hundred. Therefore, I too have looked 
upon this stanza as an interpolation and started this 
chapter as in the Saihkarabhasya. 1 

The Blessed Lord said :-—(1) O KauntC 3 iiI this Body 
itself is called the ‘ k^etra'. He, wlio understan Is this (Body), 
is called the ‘ kt^elrajna’ by the ' tadvida-'^' (that is, by those 
persons who understand this science). (2) O Bharata! know 
that in all Bodies, I am tlic ksrtrajna (that is, the Self or the 
Atman—Trans.). The Knowledge of the ^ kketra’ and the 
*kfjetrajna’ has been considered the Knovdedge of Me 
(the Puramesvara). 

[ In tho first stanza, the meanings of the two word.s kselru 
and ksidrnjna have been defined; and in the second stanza, 
the kselrajila has been defined by saying that ‘ the kselrujm 
means Myself, i. o., the Paramesvara”; or that, “that 
which is in the Body, the same thing is in the Cosmos”. 
The word ‘6'«pi=“al8o” in tho second stanza indicates 
that He i,s not only the Atman ( ksdrajna), but also the 
Body ( ksetra ); because, it has been stated already in 
Chapters VH and VHI that the ksetra, o- the Body, 
originates from the five primordial elements, \'/hich in turn 



1108 


GITA-RAHASYA OB KARMA-YOGA 


§§ rTf^ ^ m ' 

^ ?ir eTc^fn% 5 T ®r II ^ 11 

have come out of Prakrti (Matter); and that, Prakrti is 
only a minor manifestation of the Paramesvara (7. 4; 8. 4; 

9. 8). As the ksetra or the Body has thus been made up 
of the five primordial elements, it is incloded in what is 
known as the Mutable (ksara), in the Consideration of 
the Mutable (ksara) and the Immutable {aktiarn); and the 
ksetrajm is nothing but the Paramesvara, Therefore, the 
Consideration of the Body and the Atman becomes a part 
of the Knowledge of the Paramesvara in the same way 
as the Consideration of the Mutable and the ImmutalVie 
(See Gl. Ra. pp, 193 to 301); and that is why it is stated 
at the end of stanza 3, that “ the Knowledge of the Body 
and the Atmati is the Knowledge; of Myself or of thi.’ 
Paramesvara Those, who do not accept the Non-diialistic 
Vedanta, have got to stretch the meaning of the words 
‘‘I am also the Ksotrajilaand they have to maintain 
that these words do not prove the absence of difference 
between the “ ksotrajfla ” and “ I, the Paramesvara ”; and 
others take the word ‘my'(mama) as relating to ‘inatarn', 
that is, ‘has been understood’, instead of referring it to 
“jftaidi”; and interpret the sentence as meaning, “ I look 
upon the knowledge of these as Jhana’’; but these inter¬ 
pretations are not straightforward. It has been clearly 
stated in the beginning of Chapter VIII that “ the Atman 
{adhideixiY', which resides in the Body, is Myself”; or that 
whatever is in the Body, the same thing is in the Cosmos”; 
and it has also been stated in Chapter VII (7. 5) that 
“the Jiva (the Personal Self) is my inferior Prakrti”; and 
there are statements to the same effect further on in this 
Chapter in stanzas 23 and 31. The Blessed Lord now 
explains where and by whom the Consideration of the Body 
and the Atman has been made—] 

(3) What the ksetra is, what its nature is, what its 
modifications are, and withal what comes out of what; as 
also Who the kselrajna is and what His prowess is, I shall 
* The Author possibly means ‘adhideha’] see p. 1031 sttpra —^Trans. 






GlTA/rRANSLATION&COMMENTARY.CH. XIII 1109 


ti « ii 

explain all this in brief, to whicli listen. (4) In many ways,, 
in different metres, by (many) Rsis individutilly, as also 
by the words in the Bruhma-Sutras, whieh have been made 
perfectly definite by showing the motive (in ihe shape of 
cause and effect) has this (that is, this sul'ject*mattcr) 
been sung. 

[The word ‘ Brahma-Sutra.’ in tills stanza ret'ers to the 
present Vedanta-Sntras, as has lieen explained by me 
in detail in the Appendices to the Gita-Rahasya (See 
GT. Ra. pp. 748 to 758 ). The ITpanisads are not ( ne treatise 
written by one Rsi; and the various metaphysical ideas, 
which inspired the minds of various Rsis at different times 
or at different places, have been described in the varioir- 
ITpanisads, without considering their mutual inter-relation. 
Therefore, the ITpanisads seem miscellaneon-i, and in 
several places mutually contradictory. The word-s ‘ vividha ’ 
and * prf/iAjk'which appear in the first part of t iis stanza 
have been used with reference to this miscollaneou.s nature 
of the lTpanisad.s. As tho.se ITpanisads are miscellaneous 
and mutually contradictory, B4darayanacarya. wrote the 
Brahma-Siitras or the Vedaata-Butras, in order to make 
them mutually consistent; and considering all the subjects 
in the ITpanisads, he has conclusively proveci in these 
Sutras, by .showing the why and wherefore, row it is 
possible to evolve one single doctrine from the various 
Upanisads, It i,s clear that a study of the Veda ita-Sutras 
is always essential in order to undor.stand the esoteric 
import of the ITpanisads; and therefore, both liave been 
referred to in this stanza, 'fho lo^dru has been considered 
in the first sixteen Hutras of the ‘.ird division (puda ) of the 
3nd Chapter ((uUiijdija) of the .Brahma-Siitras; and there¬ 
after the ‘ ksetrajhd’ has been considered npto lire end of 
the division. As this comsideration has been made in the 
Brahma-Siitras, they are also called “the Sarlrak i-Siitras ”, 
that is to say, the canons (tmiras ), which deal with the 
‘.sonra’( ksetra ). To proceed: the Blessed Lord has thus 




1110 


GiTA-RAHASYA OB KARMA-YOGA 


f ^ ^^mrarRT I 

qrT?!: ^ ^qq^TTg^lrT*! II ^ II 


explained where and by whom the subject-matter of the 
Body and the Atman has been considered; He now explains 
what the Body ( k^etra) is —■] 

(5) The (five gross) primordial elements (such as, the 
earth etc.), Individuality (ahamkara), Reason (maMn), and 
the Imperceptible ( Prakrti), as also the ten ( subtle ) senses 
and one (Mind); and the five (subtle) objects (such as, 
sound, touch, colour, taste and smell) of the five senses, 
(6) Desire, Hate, Happiness, Unhappiness, ‘ sarnghata’ 
(that is, the group—Trans.), U:ctana’, (that is, the visible 
activity of the Vital airs etc.), and ‘dhrti' (that is, courage) * 
this collection (of 31 elements) is known as the organised 
(^savikara) Body. 

This is a definition of the ksetra and of its vikdra-s. In 
Stanza 5 have been mentioned 24 out of the 25 elements of 
the Sarhkhyas except the Spirit (purusa). As the Mind 
is included in these 24 elements, it was not necessary 
to enumerate separately the qualities of the Mind, such as, 
Desire, Hate etc. These are the qualities of the Atman 
according to the Kanadas; and if this idea is accepted, 
a doubt arises as to whether or not these qualities are 
included in the ksetra. Therefore, in order to make the 
the definition of the word ksetra perfectly unambiguous, 
the pairs of Opposites such as, Desire, Hate etc., have been 
clearly included here in the definition of the ksetra itself; 
and these pairs include the other pairs such as, fear and 
fearlessness, etc., by implication. In order to show that 
the samghdta or the ‘ collection of all these, is not an agent, 
independent of the Body, it has been included in the definition 
of the Body itself. The word'cetowa’ is sometimes under¬ 
stood as Consciousness {caitanya)-, but in the present context, 
the word ‘cetand’ moans only the ‘activity of the Vital 
airs etc., to be seen in the Gross Body or ‘ the activity 



GITA, TRANSLATION & COMMENTARY, Ctl. XIII 1111 



II ^ II 

%TT?I*?5Tt^R: ^51 ^ I 

ll C II 

Tt!(-:ulting from being alive’; and it has been stated in 
stanza 2 above, that the viccimkti { power of consciousness) 
or cailanija, which is responsible for the existence of this 
activity in gross bodies, is in the form of the lc§t‘trajm, 
which is different from the kselni. The word ‘ illirh ’ has been 
defined later on in the Gita itself (18.33), to which the 
reader is referred. The word ' K(i)nus<’>ui ’ in the si>;th stanza 
means “group made up of all these”. A furthe • explana¬ 
tion has been given at the end of Chapter VI of the Gita- 
Rahasya (pp. 193toli)5), to which the reader is referred. 
After first stating tlrat the ksetnijfia is the Par imesvara, 
the Blessed Lord has given an explanation of what the 
k-':e'ra is. Now an explanation is given of what Jnana 
is, by stating what inthionce this Jnana (Knowh clgo) has 
on the temperament of a man; and later on the nature of 
the Knowablo (jneya.) has been explained. These two 
siil)jects seem to be different from eacli other; but p 'actically 
speaking, these are the two divisions of the Condderation 
of the Body and the Atman; because, it has been stated 
already in the beginning that the /i.sWn//aa is the Parames- 
vara. Therefore, the Knowledge of the kf;(‘tr<ijiii is the 
Knowledge of the Faramesvara; and the nature of this 
Knowledge has been described in the following stanzas. 

It is not that .some totally different .subject-matter has 
been pushed in here in the middle. ] 

(7) Not having vanity, not having hypocrisy ; harmless- 
ness, forgiveness, straightforwardness, service of preceptois, 
purity, steadiness, concentration of tlic Mind; (8) indifference 
towards the. objects of the senses; also, rbsence of 
Individuation; and the feeling tint life, death old age, 
illness, and unhappiness arc evils (which puisue one); 




1112 


GITA-KAHA.SYA OR KARMA-YOGA 


»Tra ’gnT5=?T?frit5r 5Tf%?:52mr^TRoft i 


11 %0 U 

lf+(gi«lMf<4rq cTrg^TRTiiiT^STR; > 
a:?T^5Tf^rr% STTOiTirR ?I??fTS;?I!qT II 11 



(9) non-iittuchment (towards Action); not being engrossed 
with one’s wife and children, and one's home etc., having 
an equable frame of Mind, whether something good or 
something evil happens; (lO) having an unswerving mono- 
focussed Devotion to Me; and remaining in a ‘vivi/ita’ 
(that is, a chosen, or a solitary place); not liking the meeting- 
place of ordinary people; (11) beginning to realise that 
Metapliysical Knowledge is permanent; and meditation on 
propositions of philosophy, all this has been called ‘Jfiana ’ 
(Knowledge), and all rest is ‘njnana’ (Ignorance). 

[ According to Sarhkhya philosophy, the Knowledge of 
the Body and the Atnran is the knowledge of the distinction 
between Spirit and Matter; and that has been explained 
later on in this chairter (13. l‘J-23; 14.19); similarly an 
exhaustive definition of the nature of Knowledge has been 
given in Chapter XVIII (18. 20) in the words “ avH)haklayi 
vibhaktem ”. But, according to the science of Release, Know¬ 
ledge of the/nse/va and kselnijm does not only mean, under¬ 
standing by the Mind that a particular thing is of a parti¬ 
cular kind. It is a proposition of Metaphysics that. Know¬ 
ledge must create an effect on the jiiental temperament in 
the shape of Eciuability of Reason; and that otherwise, that 
Knowledge is incomplete or immature. Therefore, ‘ Jnana ’ 
has been described in the above stanzas by saying that a 
man may be said to have ‘ Jiiana' when absence of vanity, 
hypocrisy, non-violence, non-attachment, equability etc. 
and the other twenty (pialities mentioned in the above five 
stanzas are seen in him, instead of defining Jilana as the 
understanding by the mind of particular things (see Gl. Ra. 
Chap. IX pp. 341 to 344). The description of one feature of 
Jhana contained in the words, “ remaining in a solitary 



GiT A, TRANSLATION & COMMENTARY, CB.Xin lU3 


§§ ^TTfrirHi^^niT ^i^Tr?niFrrFg^ i 
^RTTW^rr STBI ST ^Tfarrai^^ II II 
qifoUTT^ rTf^mST%1^5^ST I 
^q?T: frfgm II II 

place and not liking a coniinon meeting place ”, appearing 
in stanna 10, has been taken liold of by some coinmentators 
for proving that tlie Rath of Renunciation is supported by 
the Gita; but I have already stated before that such an 
interpretation is not correct, and that it is not 3V£n proper 
to put such an interpretation on these words (^ee note on 
Gi. 1:1. 19, and Gl. Ra, p. 3!)1). The only thing which has 
been considered in this place i.s what Jhana is , and there 
is no dispute about the fact that Juana means ' absence of 
Attachment for one’s wife and children, for onoV, home, aiid 
for the common meeting-place of peopleWhether after 
the acciuisitioii of this .fuana. a \nan should nanain in the 
wc)rld or among his wife and children with this Desireless 
Mind, and iierform worldly Action for the l)eiie.[it of the 
world, is tlie next (luostiou; and it is not proper to decide 
that question by merely considering the definition of the 
word ‘ JnanaBecause, the Blessed Lord has stated in 
many idaces in the Gita itself that a Juanin must continue 
to perform all Actioius with an unattached frame of mind, 
without hecoming engros.sed in the Action.';, and for 
universal welfare ; and He has, in support of that proposi¬ 
tion, mentioned the illustrations of the life of Janaka and 
of FTimself (Gl. 3. li)-:35 ; 4. 14). The life of .Sii Samartha 
llamadasa cdnarly shows how it is possible for a man to 
take part in the affairs in the world as a duty, without 
.having a desire to live in the town (See Da.sa-h>)dlia 19. (!. 

19 and 19. 9. 11). So far a description has he 3n given of 
the nature of Juana. 'I’ho Blo.ssed Lord now gives a 
description of the Knowalde- -1 

(12) (Xow)lwill tell (you) I'hat, by knowing which, 
;jne attains to amrla (that is. Release). (It is) eternal, 
; lLis) the Brahman, Which is beyond (everything); It is 
not c.illcd nor is It called ' asat’\ (13) It has arms 





1114 GiTA-RAHASYA OR KARMA-YOGA 



^OTiTT^ ^ II ?a II 
»i;rTT?TrJT=!^< ^ I 

^SS-Trr^rTrT^Rt^T ^TT^rT^ ^ fTci; II II 
^ R^irfrfiRr ^ R'-!T^ I 
^ cT^j^ ?7r%^^ xT¥if^ ^ II II 
>j4 rr^ <7 nTf it rr53?ft^FfTW. i 

fTR %q llRJTTq ll ll 

:xnd feet oiYull sides; eyes, heads, and mouths on all sides; 
and It pervades everything in this world; (14) It creates 
an impression that It has the qualities of all the senses; and 
It has no senses at all; though It is asakta (that is, untouched 
by anything), It, at the same time, supports everything; 
and being qualityless. It yet enjoys all the qualities, 
(15) (It) is in all things and outside all things; (It) is 
immoveable and at the same time moveable; being subtle, 
It is incapable of being-hnown; and being far away. It is 
yet near. (16) (Though) It is (essentially) 'avibhaktd 
(that is, unbroken). It is, so to say, divided among all 
beings (by diversity); and It must be looked upon as That 
Which supports, swallows up, and also creates (all) beings; 
(17) It is called the Brilliance of all brilliance, and Something 
beyond darkness; It is ‘Juana’; It is the ‘Jheya’ (that is,, 
that which is to be known) and ‘Juana-gamya’ (that is, 
capable of being understood only by Juana) ; and It is 
installed in the heart of everybody. 

[The above description of the Inconceivable and 
Imperishable Parabrabmau, which is also known as the 
k»elrajfia or the Paramatmaii (Gi. 13. 22 ), ha.s been made 
on the authority of the Upanisads, in the same way as that 
of the Imperishable Brahman in Chapter VIII (Gi. 8. 9-11). 
The whole of stanza 13 (Sve. 3. 16) and the subsequent 
demi-stanza: “It creates an impression that it possesses 
the senses, and it has no senses at all” have been taken 
literally from the vSvetasvataropanisad (Sve. 3. 17); and 



GITA, TRANSLATION & COMMENTARY, CJI. XIII IllE 


the words “ being far away. It is yet near” are to be found 
in the Isavasya (5), and the Mundaka (13, 1. 7) Upanisads. 
Similarly, the words “the Brilliance of all brilliance” 
are from the Brhadaranyaka ( Br. 4. 4. 16); and “something 
beyond darkness” are from the Svetasvatara (3.8). The 
description “It is nut called nut, nor is It called asal” is 
according to the well-known Sutra on the Brahman, namely, 
nasaflusi/ nn sadoHit" from the Rg-Veda. The meaning 
of the two words 'sat' and ‘asu/' has been (xhaustively 
considered in Chapter IX of the Gita-Rahasya (Ch. IX 
pp. 336 t'3 338), as also in the commentary oi Gita 9. 19, 
to which the reader is referred. In Gita 9. 19, ir, was stated 
that He is the ‘'saf' as also the ‘n.sn/’; and it is now stated 
that the true Brahman is neither ‘.sn/’ nor '(isat\ which 
would seem to be a contradiction-in-terms: but this con¬ 
tradiction is not real; becau.se, thepropo.sition that, “though 
the rijdidd (ksara) and uri/aJc/a (aksara) universe are 
both forms of the Paramesvara, yet, the true P.iramesvara- 
Element is l)eyond both these, that is, totally inc ognisable”, 
has been clearly enunciated liefore in the Gita in the stanza 
“bhutabhrn /la ca bludastlio” (Gi. 9. 5), and also again 
where the description of the Purnsottarna has been given 
(Gl. 15, 16, 17). As the f|iiestions, ‘what Is called the 
nmjuua Brahman ’, ‘ how that nir(jimii Brahman is outside 
the world, wliilo being in the world’, and ‘hov, though It 
might appear diverse or divided {vibhakfa), P, is funda¬ 
mentally undivided (avibhaktti), or only One’ hive already 
been considered in Chapter IX of fhe Gita-Rahasya 
( p, 285 et secj.), I shall not repeat the same sulgect-matter 
here. The words “ It is so to say divided among ill beings ” 
in stanza 16, are a translation of the words “ vihlaktam iva"; 
and this word ‘ivo’ has been used several times in the 
Upanisads in this sense, that is to say, in the sense that 
the diversity in the world is illusory and that unity is 
the only truth. For example, see “(Ivaitaiii iva bhavati”, 

''yaiha minwa pasyali" etc., ( Br. 2.4,14; 4.4, 19 ; 4,3.7 ). 
It is, therefore, quite clear that the Gita supports the Non- 
Uualistic proposition that Maya, embodied n various 
Names and l.<’orms is illusory, and that the Brahnati which 



1116 


GiTA-RAHASYA OR KARMA-YOGA 


^ rT^ai IfR tf4 : I 

?T^?T) JT^Rnnqq^T^ n u 

indivisibly permeatss that Illusion is alone Real. In 
Gita 18. ;i0, later on, it is again stated that, “ avibhaMafu 
ribhaktem", that is to say, ‘seeing Unity in Diversityis 
a sign of safttika Knowledge. That this aalivika Knowledge 
is the Brahman, and other similar topics have been discussed 
by me in the chapter of the Gita-Rahasya, which deals with 
the Absolute Self (See Gi. Ra. Oh, IX, pp. 293 to 295 and 
Gh. VI. PP.T78 to 180 ).l 

(18) I have thus brielly explained to you what the 
’■k^ctra', ‘jnana’ and the 'jucya' are. Knowing this, My 
devotee is merged into My foriu. 

[ The ksefni, jaum, and the ./Mc/yn have so far been 
considered with the help of the Science of the Absolute Self 
or of the Vedanta-Sastra. As the jth'ija out of these is the 
kfielnijrla uv the Parabrahman, and Jnana is the Knowledge 
of the Body (ksetra) and the Atman (k^krajila), mentioned in 
stanza 2, this beconios a short description of all Knowledge 
of the Paramesvara ; and since the Knowledge of the ksetra 
and the ksstrajm is the Knowledge of the Paramesvara, it 
follows, as a matter of course, that the fruit of it must be 
Release ; and that proposition has been laid down in stanza 
18. The Consideration of the Body and the Atman accord¬ 
ing to the Vedanta-Sastra ends here. But, since the 
organised (n'lvikara) Body, composed of the primordial 
elements, has sprung out of Prakrti, and since what the 
Saihkhyas call ‘ purum ’ (Spirit) is the Atman according to 
Vedanta, the Consideration of the Body and the Atman 
become.s the Consideration of Prakrti and Purusa according 
to the Samkbyas. The Gita does not look upon Prakrti and 
Purusa as two independent elements, a.s is done liy the 
Saihkhyas; and it has been stated in Chapter VII of the Gita 
that they are respectively the inferior and superior forms of 
one and the same Paramesvara (7. 4, 5). But when once one 
accepts this Non-Dualism or Monism, instead of the Dualism 
of the Saihkhyas, then what the Saihkhyas say about the 
mutual relation between Prakrti and Purusa is not un- 



GITA, TRANSLATION & TOMMENTARY, C]I. XIII 1117 


fqqjlTf^ goTT^q flrf^ qf>rrl«¥?^ II 1 % II 

S^q- g^qr-’^TSTT wqgrq ^5K=Eq?T II ^0 II 

ilcoeptablii to the Gita. Nay, the Gonsidei-ation oi' Prakrti 
and Purutia is nothing Imt the (Joasideration of the Body and 
the Atman in another form. (See Gi. Ra. Gh Vil). There- 
tore, the Blessed Lord, having expounded the Knowledge 
of the Body and the Atman on the authority of the 
Ppanisads, now again oxplain.s the same Knov h dge in the 
terminology of Sariikhya philosoph>, hut withom accepting 
the Dualism of the Saitikhyas, in the sha})Q of a. dis¬ 
crimination lietween the Prakrti and Purnsa—| 

(19) Know that both Prakrti and Purnsa are eternal. 
Know that tlic cvolutcs (tnkani) and the constituents (/,nma), 
all spririfr out ol' Prakrti. 

[According to Samkhya philosophy, Prakrti aaul Pnrusa 
are not only eternal hut also iudepondent of each other and 
self-created. According to Vedanta j^hilosophy Prakrti 
originates from the Paramesvara and is, therefore, neither 
self-created in)r inde|)endent (Gi. 4. 5, (i). But, .u- it cannot 
be said when Prakrti originated from the Pa ranief vara, and 
as the Puriisa (Jiva) is a part of Mio Paramesva 'a (Gi. 15. 

7), Vedantists admit that both are clernal. A further 
elucidation of this subject-matter has been made in 
Chap. VII of the (rita-Rahasy a, specially at pp. 219 to 22b 
and in Chapter X at pp. 362 to 366, to which Ihe reader 
is referred. ] 

(20) Prakrti is said to be the cause for the activity of 
the Mrya (that is, the Body) and of tlic karana (that is, the 
senses); and (without being a Doer) the Purusu (Ksetrajha) 
is said to be the cause for experiencing pain or pleisure. 

[In this stanza, the reading ' kUrnak'drana' is found in 
some texts instead of the reading ‘ kuri/akarain ' \ with 
that reading the stanza moan.s, that the 23 elements of 
Samkhya philosophy, namely, Muhat and tht others, 
spring one out of the other, the one lieing the cause for 



1118 


GiTA-RAHASYA OR KARMA-YOGA 


^RT?T>T jpi^frs^ i< II 

§§ ' ^q^gfsgffgm ^ ^ *it^* i 

^tsf^ 5^t q?;: II II 
^ Fq %f% 5^ STfift ^ ijSt*. ^ I 

q^JTIsfrsfq 51 ^ II II 

the one which follows, and that the entire perceptible 
universe comes into existence out of Prakrti. Such an 
interpretation would not bo improper. But in the Con¬ 
sideration of the Body and the Atman, a Consideration of 
the origin of the Body, is out of place. How the world has 
sprung out of Prakrti has been explained before in 
(Chapters VII and IX. Therefore, the reading ‘ kanjakarana ' 
seems more appropriate in thi.s place. The Ramkarabhasya 
adopts the reading ‘ kanjakarana j 
(21) Because, when Prakrti is supeiintended over by 
Purusa, It enjoys the constituents born of Prakrti; and this 
union with the constituents (of Prakrti) becomes the cause 
for the Purusa to take birth in ii good or bad species. 

[This description of the difference and the mutual 
relation between Prakrti and Ihirusa is from Sathkhya 
philosophy (see Gl. Ra. pp. 219 to 221). The Blessed Lord 
now explains that the ‘Purusa’ of Saihkhya philosophy 
is called the ‘ Parainatnian ’ by Vedantists; He thus links 
the Saihkhya with the Vedanta philosophy; and when that 
is done, the Consideration of the Prakrti and Purusa is 
harmonised with the Consideration of the Body and the 
Atman. ] 

(22) This ‘ upadrasta (that is, One, Who sits near and 
sees the constituents of Prakrti), Who gives the consent. 
Who is the ' bhartd' (that is. One, Who adds to the consti¬ 
tuents of Prakrti), and the Enjoyer, is known as the 
parapurusa (that is, the Highest Purusa—Trans.), the 
mahesvara (that is, the Highest Isvara—Trans.) and the 
Parainatnian, Who resides in the Body. (23) Who thus 
knows the Purusa (as qualityless) and (that) Prakrti (alone 




GiTA, TRANSLATION & COMMENTARY, CEi. XIII 1119 


§§ ^f^r*TPTITTr»RT I 

aT?% ?Ttit5T U ^8 11 

317^ fW^rr^fT*. i 

^sfq ’grs ^'aqrnian: ii h 

is) full of qualities, however he may be iictingj does not get 
re-birth, 

[M'hen it has been proved in .stanza 23, that the Puriisa 
is the I’aramatman witViin the Body, the inactivity and 
apathy, which are the qualities of the Purusa i .oeording to 
Samkhya philosophy now become the inactivity of the 
Atman; and a harmony is established between thi arguments 
of the Saihkhyas and Vedanta. Some writers on Vedanta 
imagine that Samkhya philosophy is inimical to Vedanta 
philosophy; and many Vedantists look upon the Sarhkhya 
arguments as entirely negligible. But instead of doing ,so, 
the Gita has expounded the question of the Body and the 
Atman, once from the point of view of Vedanta, and again 
from the ijoiiit of view of Saiinkbya philosophy (without, 
however, abandoning the Non-Dualisni of Vedanta). This 
shows the e<iuability (.)f the Gita-science. Nay, this may 
be said to be an important difference between the expositions 
in the U])anisads and in the Gita respectively ( See Gl. Ra. 
App. pp. 756 to 757). 'Fliis clearly shows that though 
the Gita does not iiccept the Dualism of Samkhya phi¬ 
losophy, it does not fail to accept as much as is acceptable 
out of Samkhya philo.sophy. It has been stated in stanza 2, 
that the Knowledge of the Body and the Atman is nothing 
hut the Knowledge of the Parainosvara. The Blessed Lord 
now incidentally explains in short the various means of 
acquiring Release, by acquiring this Knowledge c f the Body 
( pirida ) and of the Paraniesvara within the Body — ] 

(24) Some persons of their own accord see the Atman 
within themselves by means of meditation; some by the 
Sarhkhya-Yogu and some by the Karma-Yoga ; (25) but those? 
who do not thus acquire the Knowledge (by thems ilves), many 
such worship (the Paramesvara, with religious faith) by 
hearing the advice of others. These person?, who act, 






1120 


GiTA-EAHASYA OR KARMA-YOGA 


i 

#5 ETg^ qw^ I 
M i w^’!ar4;ciR^^^y ff ^r* ^ q^^ o « 

^ q^ f| yRclftifiRTlfbqCE < 

5T ftH^RrrrfnTTSSflTTTT ^ ^TTET qTT >Tm»? II H 


accepting as correct what they have heard, also overcome 
death and ^o beyond. 


[ These two stanzas mention the various paths of Self- 
Realisation, namely, (i) Meditation, according to the 
Patanjala-Yoga; (ii) Abandonment of Action after the 
acquisition of Knowledge, according to the Saihkhyas; (iii) 
(a) performing all Actions desirelessly and with the 
intention of dedicating them to the Paramesvara, and (6) 
placing confidence with faith in the statements of trust¬ 
worthy persons and becoming devoted to the Paramesvara, 
(Gi. 4. 39), according to Karma-Yoga. Whichever path one 
follows, one ultimately gains the Knowledge of the 
Paramesvara and attains Release. Therefore, the proposi¬ 
tion laid down in the earlier chapters, that the Path 
of Karraa-Yoga is the best, from the point of view of 
Universal Welfare, is not thereby affected in the least. 
Having in this way stated the various means of Self- 
Realisation, the entire subject has been summarised in the 
next stanzas in a general way ; and even in doing that, a 
unanimity has been established lietw^een the Kapila 
Saihkhya philosophy and Vedanta. ] 


(26) O Bliaratasref?tha ! remember that whatever move- 
able or imoveable thing is created, comes into existence as a 
result of the union between the Body and the Atman. 
(27) He, who lias seen the Paramesvara, Who is equally in 
all created things, and Who is not destroyed, even when all 
beings are destroyed, be may be said to have understood (the 
real principle). (23) Realising that the Paramesvara equally 
pervades everywhere, that man, who, by such Knowledge 



GITA,TRANSLATION &:CX)MMKNTARV, 'JH. XIII IL-il 


rT^nSrriR^Iflrni' ^ II H 

rm qq ^ f^PrTR: ^31 cT^r u II 

§§ 3iJTn'^i%iioi?qnT qfinrqic' 

Tr€n:^|'jrsfq jt qiTif^ ^ fetqn " V. n 

q-qi t^<l<ld •TnH3*''Ud I 

HqqrqftqfTr V?r ?Tqi';';?qr n n 

c'Si';ipcs Hclf-destnictioa (tl>:it is, who, of hi' “own aocord, 
takos to the path of virtue) alltiius llicreb}' aii exccllcivt state. 

[ riu'description of till’ I'avainc'ivara given ii stanza 27 
has apjiearod heforc in Gi. S, 2(»; and this saljoct lias been 
explained in ('haptc-r J.\ of llie Gita-Raliasya [See Gl. Ua, 
pp. 2!)!J and drill). In llui same way, the slaionienl made 
before, that the Atman i;'- everyhody's friend as also his 
enemy (Gi. 0. b ■?) has lieeii repeated again in stanza 2tt. 
Having gi\on a deseription of the feeling of equahilit.v 
toward,' all beings in stanzas 2(i, 27, and 2S, the Bles.se,d 
r.,urd now explains what frappens as a result o ' this Know¬ 
ledge— I 

(19) He, who has niulorslood lliat (all) etions are iir 
every way got pcrformml by means of Praki t , and that the 
Atman is Itself inactive (tliat is. One, wlio does nothing), may 
be said to have understood (llie true principle) (30; When 
the diveisity (tliai is, manifoldness) in varioiH icings is seen 
;is a nnitv ; and when (all this) extension is seen (to have 
taken place) Irom this (unity), the Brahman is attained to. 

(The Blessed Lord now explains how tin Atman is 
qualityless, untouched, and inactive - ] 

(31) Being eternal and ijualitylcss, this inc-xhanstible 
Paramatmaii, O Kaunteya ! docs nut perform au) tiling, thougli 
remaining within the Body ; and to Him, tlic eciitact (that i^>, 
bondage) of no Action attaches itself. t,'’2) As ether, 
pervading cvcrylliing, is not iiffocteii (by an' tiling;, being 
subtle, so the Atman, pervading the Biulv everywhere:, is not 



1122 


GITA-RAHASYA OR KARMA-YOGA 


^ ^?IT flr^ ^RTcT l< II 

§§ ^#r3nr?fr^€rR5^ 1 

»irnTfjm*TT^ ^ ^ f^TT-fT ^ q?:*l II ^8 » 

affected (by iinything). (33) As the Sun alone illuminates 
this entire Cosmos, so also, O Bharatu ! the Atman 
illuminates the entire Body. 

(34) Those, wlio tlius, by spiritual eyes (that is, by eyes 
in the shape of Knowledge), understand the difference 
between the Body and the Atman, and the Release of the 
•(fundamental) Prakrti of all beings, roach the Parabrahman. 

[ This is the summary of the entire chapter. I have inter¬ 
preted the word bJuilupmlcrfimoksd” according to the 
Sathkhya doctrine. According to this doctrine, getting 
Relea.se or not, arc not stat6.s of the Atman; because. It is 
always a Non-doer and unattached; but as It arrogates 
Activity to Itself, as a result of Its union with Prakrti, 
the Prakrti with which It is united, is liberated when 
this ignorance is destroyed; that is to say, the Prakrti is 
Released; and then it gives up its dance in front of the 
Purusa. Therefore, the Sarakhyas maintain that the two 
states of being bound and being released are essentially 
states of Prakrti (Bee Samkhya-Karika 62, and Gi. Ra. 
Ch. VII p, 223 ), I think that the words “the Release of 
the Prakrti ” have been used in this stanza with reference 
to this Samkhya doctrine. But some interpret this 
expression as meaning “hfiutehhyah prakrtes ca moksah", 
that is, “ the Atman is Released from the five primordial 
elements and Prakrti”, that is to say, from Illusory Action. 
To proceed: this discrimination between the Body and 
the Atman is made by means of the sight of Knowledge 
(Gl. 13. 34), whereas the king of Vidyas (rUja-vidyu) 
mentioned in Chapter IX is to be realised by the physical 
eyes {Gi. 9. 2); and the vision of the Cosmic Form is to 
be had, even by the highest devotee of the Blessed Lord, 
by divine eyes (Gl. 11. 8). This distinction between the 



GITA, TRANSLATION & QIMMENTARY,OH. XIII 1123 


^sfnr^Ti^frn^ «ft^OTn- 

STTR 5rqt?^T5VJrT^; 11 x\ It 

explanations of Jnana and Vijnana given in Le 9th, 11th, 
and 13th chapters should be borne in mind.] 

Thus ends tlic thirteenth chapter entitled Ksetra- 
Ksetrajna-Vibhaga Yoga in the dialogue between 
Sri Krsna and Arjuna on tlic Yoga included in the Science of 
the Brahman (that is, on tlic Karma-Yoga) in the Upanisad 
sung (that is, told) by the Blessed Lord, 




§§ 'K IfRRT ITRi^*? I 

^^TrWT grr^: TO RTf^Rm itr: ii \ ll 

CHAPTER XIY. 

I lu Chapter XIII, the doctrine of the Body and the Atman 
has been expounded, once from the point of view of Vedanta 
and again from the point of view of Samkhya philosophy ; 
and it has been stated there that the entire activity is of 
the Prakrti, and that the Pnrusa, that is, the ksetrajna is 
apatlietie. But, it iias not been explained in what way this 
activity of Prakrti continues going. Therefore, the Blessed 
Lord explains in this chapter how diverse forms of creation, 
and especially of the living creation, are created from one 
and the same Prakrti. ff 07ie considers only the human 
creation, then, as this subject deals with the kftetra, that is 
to say, with the Body, it can ho easily included in the 
Consideration of the Body and the Atman. But, as the 
immoveable world is also an oxiiansioir of the three-consti- 
tuented Prakrti, the exposition of the difference in the 
constituents of Prakrti can also form part of the Considera¬ 
tion of the Mutable and the .Immutable. The Bles.sed Lord 
has, therefore, given up a restricted de.scription as ‘ Consi¬ 
deration of the Body and the Atman ’, and started this 
chapter saying that He would e.xplain to Arjuna in further 
detail the Jnana (Spiritual Knowledge) and Vijhana 
(F.mpivical Knowledge) which He had commenced to explain 
in Chapter VII. The reader is referred to the exhaustive 
explanation of this subject-matter, which has been given in 
Cliapter VIH of the Gita-Rahasya. This description of the 
diffusion or spreading-out of the three constituents of 
Prakrti has also been given in the Anugita and in 
Chapter XII of the Manu-Sinrti.] 

The Blessed Lord said:—(1) Once more am 1 going 
to tell you the best knowledge of all Knowledge, by knowing 
which all sages Irave reached the highest state from this 



tlITA,TRANSLATION&(X)MMENTARY, OH. XIV 1125 


msfq ?nq^3TT^^ ;T s?T^3=cT II » II 

§§ w T'*3rT*^»3[ I 

^#»i<TT5Tr ?T?ft H ^ n 

^?7Tf5T5 ^VIcrr?rT m: ' 

rTT^ *T??flR^ ^'STSTfi FTrTT H « n 

§§ ?:3T^?i ff^ gon*. sTfifro^Tcir. i 

f^wvn-fT iT^rwT^ u ’ i 

rjjf R^rSTTrSr^^JfsnJm^ I 
gi5r^t^ ’^vrnrT frrsr^lfJT ^nr^r ii n 
world. (2) Tliosc who, taking slicltcr in tl ia Knowledge, 
liuve become merged in Me, do not come to birth when 
tlie Cosmos is created, nor do they die whon the Cosmos 
is destroyed; (that is to say, they bccouu entirely free 
from the cycle of birth and death). 

t'i'his is an introduction. Xow the Blessed Lord says 
in the first instance that I’rakrti is only one form of 
Himself; and having thereby got rid of ;he Sanik'hya 
Dnalisin, He now explains—without clashing with Vedanta— 
how the various perceptil)le olijects come into existence 
in the world as a result of the tlireo constituents of Prakrti.] 
(3) O Bharata! tlie mahadhrahtna (that is Prakrti) is My 
womb, .ind 1 lay in it the embryo of life; I hen all beings 
begin to come to life therefrom. (4) All beings, wliich come 
to birth in tlic various species (sucli as bea.sti or birds etc.), 
of them, O Kaunteya ! tlic mahadhrahma i s the place of 
generation, and I am the Patlicr, Who inpir ignutes it witli 
the seed. 

(5) O Mahaiialio! the saliva, rajas ai.d lamas con¬ 
stituents, wliicli spring from Prakrti, keep t ed witliin tlie 
Body, the ‘avyuya’ Ltlnd is, the unmodilialdc {nirvikdra'^ 
Atman j, whicli resides in the Body. (6) Out of these, 
the saliva constituent, whicli illumines bermiise it is pure, 
and which is faultless, O sinless Arjuna ! keeps (beings) 
in bondage liy the .Attachment for happiness rnd Knowledge- 




1126 


GiTA-RAHASYA OR KARMA-YOGA 


<TlTlrMch I 

cTraWn^ >' ^ >* 

ii c ii 

^3T?n^ WTJTfSl I 


in?T^TTf f ^T 1 cjir- >' % » 

(7) The characteristic of the rajas constituent is to 
keep one engrossed; and know, that Desire and Attach¬ 
ment arise from this constituent. O Kaunteya! it keeps 
beings in bondage by the (Energistic) Attachment for 
performing Actions. (8) But the iamas constituent springs 
from Ignorance; and know, that it confuses all beings. 
O Bharata! it keeps (them) in bondage by ignorance of 
duty, idleness, and sleep. (9) The saliva constituent creates 
an Attachment for happiness, and the rajas constituent, for 
Action; but O Bharata ! tlie lamas constituent throws a cloak 
on Knowledge, and creates an Attachment for 'pramada’ 
(that is, ignorance of duty or forgetfulness of duty.) 

[The individual natures of the three constituents have 
thus been explained. But these three constituents never 
exist individually, independent of each other; and they 
are always together. For example, although it is the 
nature of the saliva constituent to make a man do any good 
action, yet, as the inclination to do the good action results 
from the rajas constituent, there must also be some mixture 
of the rajas constituent with the sattvika temperament. 
That is why the saliva constituent is mentioned as the pair 
of the lamas constituent, and the rajas constituent as the 
pair of the saliva constituent in the Anugita, which gives 
a pairing description of these constituents (Ma. Bha. 
Asva. 36); and it is stated there, that all things in the 
world are created by the mutual support or mutual inter¬ 
relations of these constituents. (See Sarh. Ka. 12 and 
Gl. Ra. pp. 213 to 215). This very principle is now first 
enunciated, and then the characteristics of the saliva, rajas 
and lamas constituents are described. ] 





GiTA, TRANSLATION & OTMMENTARY, OH. XIV 1137 


§§ ifnTrT I 

r*r. rT*T^ rW TST^rT^lT II ?0 II 

^T%TT5 ftSRJTsi sr^5T I 

?T^r ^Tr^^r^fT II \l II 

<!41 5r^[T^mT^^" ^nT®rrJT?w» i 

T^iR^<TTf5f ^TrlNM II II 

3rSR»T5fTSqf 1%^ !lTTr^ JTt^r t^ET ^ I 

cftT^^rnR ^Tni7?r f^f:^ m n 

§§ ?i?r 5r|% 5 !T5?4 ?nf^ 1 
fTfr^Ri^r 5!Tw>T5mcyR[ srnrq^H ii n 
^:5T% Sl?y5r JTrcR WrR^I%!5 I 

rT'-NT II \'^ » 

(10) Dcfciiting the rajas uni! lamas coiuitituents, the 

saliva becomes (prcponderunt); (tlicn, he i 3 siiid to be 
sattvika); and by defeiitiiig the saliva and lamas constituents, 
the rajas constituent becimies (preponderant); and by 
defeating the saliva and rajas constituents the tamas 
becomes (preponderant). (11) When in this body, in all its 
apertures (senses), light (tliat is, spotless Knowledge) comes 
into existence, the saliva constituent may be understood to 
have grown. (12) O Bhurutasrestha ! wlie i the rajas 
constituent increases, avarice, inclination towards Action, 
and the commencement of Actions, dissatisfactic n, and Desire 
come into existence; (13) and O Kurunandana I when the 
towas constituent increases, darkness, a desiie not to do 
anything, and pramada (that is, forgetfulness of one's 
duties) and confusion, even these, come into existence. 

[The Blessed Lord has explained what ditfirences take 
place in the nature of a man, while he is alivi', as a result 
of the three constituont.s. HE now explains what goal i.s 
readied by these three kinds of persons— J 

(14) if a being dies wdien tliere is a preponderance of the 
saliva constituent, it goes to the pure spheres (such as, 
heaven, e tc.) of those, who understand tlie exal :ed principles 
(that is, of gods, etc.). (15) If it dies when the rajas 



1128 


GITA-RAHA.SYA OR KARMA-YOGA 


’?T5y 5:<^*TfTrsf ?T*FT5 ft ll 
'ercnr^^TT!!^ tTR T3Tm ^ ^ f 
ST^JTT^ rTJT^T M^fTlSfTrfTfl^l '< »' 


ir=e?7PfT ^TrSR^i jp;5r m^cT Trsmif i 



w »p5i?f^ cTT^mr: ti \c I) 


constituent is preponderant, it takes birth among those, who 
are engross&d in Action; and dying when there is 
preponderance of the lamas constituent, it takes birth in 
ignorant species, (suc)t as, birds, beasts, etc.). (16) It is 
said that the result of virtuous Action is sinless and sailvika; 
but the result of rajasa Action is pain, and the result of 
iamasa Action is ignorance. (17) Whereas Knowledge 
arises from the saliva constituent, avarice springs from the 
rajas constituent, and not only forgetfulness of duty aitd 
confusion, but even Ignorance arises from the lamas con¬ 
stituent. (18) Tlie sailvika beings reach superior spheres, 
(that is, lieaven, etc.), the rajasa beings remain in tlie 
middle (that is, human spheres), and the tamasa, who have 
inferior qualities and inclinations, go to lower spheres. 

I It has bean stated even in the Saihkhya Karika, that the 
person actuated by the s«iltm con.stituent obtains heaven, 
beean.so he i,s religion,s-minded and perform,s good actions; 
ami that the one actuated by the tuiiuis constituent goes to 
lower ,spheres, because he performs unrighteous actions. 

{ Sarh. Ka. 44). Similarly, the 18th stanza appears literally 
in the Anugita in the description of the three constituents 
(Ma. Bha. Asva, 39, 10 ; and Mann. 12. 40). But, oven if a 
man may attain heaven by sailvika Action, yet, he does 
not thereby attain the highest goal (jf manhood, since 
lieaven is not permanent. In order to obtain this highest 
goal of manhood, or Release, the man must, according to 
the Samkhya doctrine, not only have a completely sathiJax 
nature, but also acquire the Knowledge that Prakrti is a 
different thing from the Purusa. This is what the 





(if I'A, TUANSLATION & 0(3MMENTARY, G I. XIV 1129 


§§ 50 tv-?i; ^cTi< I 

gop.-^;^ qt ^ 11 II 

i50TT^?rT«Tcftr?T I 

Sarhkhyus call the “/rii/iinii/ilavaslli'd”, that is, ‘the state 
of being beyond and nntoiuTied by the three co istituents ’; 
and although this state is beyond the scilfiH,, rajas, am) 
tamas constituents, yet, in as much as it is the highest peak 
of the su/lrika state, it is ordinarily included in tlfe satfrika 
class; and it is not looked upon as a fourth (lass, as has 
been stated by me at the end of Chapter Vll a1 pp. 337-8 of 
the Crita-Rahasya. Yet, as the (lita does ni't accept the 
Saihkhya Dualism of Prakrti and Purusa, it alters the form 
of the above Bamkhya doctrine by saying tlnat lie who 
realises (he one Atman-formed Tkiramosvara or 
Parabraiunaii, Who is bi>yond botli Prakrti and Purusa, to 
be the tpiajityloss Brahman, is to be called the ' trigunuliln' 

'( one bey ond the three constituonts ); and that is what is 
described in I, he next stanza.— | 

(19) When tlie ‘ dras/d ' (that is, the apatliciic looker-on 
I’urusa) rciihses that there is no other active agent except 
the constituents (of Prakrti), and realises itl e Prineiple) 
beyond (all) the (three) constituents, then he reaches My 
form. (20) Tlic euibodicd man, transcending these three 
constituents, which arc the cause of the birth of the Body, 
and becoming free from the pain of fiirtli, death, and old age 
■experiences iuunortidity lt!ia.t is, Release). 

Iln as much as that which is ‘Maya’, .according to 
Vedanta, is ' Irujandlmdka prakrti ’ (three-co istituented 
Prakrti) according to Sariikhya phihxsophy, becoming 
' Irigiimilila ' means ‘ ca,sting off Maya or Illusion, and 
recognising the Parabrahmaii ’ (Gt. 2. 45); a id this is 
wbat is known as ‘the Braliml state’ (Gi. 3. 73 ; 18. 53). 
Hearing rheso characteristics of the ' In'.gunatiki’ according 
to the [ihilo.sophy of the Ahsolute Self, A:r;iu la lieeoines 
inspired with the desire of learning more about it; and as 



1130 


GITA-RAHASYA or karma-yoga 


•o 

§§ JJOTT^cTRffr^ UMl I 

%cTr^^ JJOTRf^^ II II 


^ jTff% w ^ qni^ i 

5f tfa 5 t t^ttitst n u 

^St^f 5T I 

gon fr^ II II 

'afk^^n^^Trfra^gRi" ^8 n 

he has in Chapter II asked a question about the Steady-iu- 
Reason (sHthaprajna), (3. 54), so also he now asks—] 

Arjuna said:—(21) O Lord I by what characteristic may 
a man (be said to) go beyond the three constituents ? What 
is the behaviour of that {trigiiv^tlta) person ? and how does 
he go beyond these three constituents ? (tell me that). 
The Blessed Lord said (22) O Pandava 1 that man, who, 
when Enlightenment, Progression, and Ignorance (that is, 
respectively the products or the effects of the sattva, rajas 
and tamas constituents) overcome him, does not hate them ; 
and, who does not desire to possess them, if he does not 
obtain them; (23) who remains like an Apathetic towards 
the Fruit of Action ; whom the {sattva, rajas, and tamas') 
constituents cannot unsettle; who remains steady, only 
realising that the constituents are performing (their 
respective) functions, and docs not move (that is, does not 
experience any emotion); (24) to whom pain and happiness 
are the same ; who has become ' svasthah ’ (that is, steady in 
his own place) ; to whom earth, stone, and gold are just the 
same; to whom what is beloved and what is disliked, 
disaparagement and praise, are just the same ; who is always 




GITA, TRANSLATION & COMMENTARY, CH. XIV 1131 


norTcfm: ^ ^=5^^ ii u 


courugeful; (25) to wiiom, honour nud dishonc ur are ‘ tulya ’ 
(that is, alike), aud a friend's party, or an cruimy’s side are 
both alike ; whose (dcsireful) activities have ccine to an end,, 
(because he has realised that it is Prakrti, (vhich is doing 
everything), such a man is known as a ‘ trigunitlta ’ (that is,, 
one who lias transcended the three constituents—Trans.). 

[ 'Ihis is the reply to the two iiuostions : (i) what are the 
characteri.stic.s and (ii) the conduct of the pm on, who is a 
‘ iruiuncitUa' (that is, who has transcended the three consti¬ 
tuents) ? These characteristics are the .same as those of the 
Steady-in-tleason {slithaprajna) described in Chapter II, and 
of the Devotee (bhakHinan) described in Chapter XII. Nay, 
some of the adjectives (namely, siirvaratnbhu-pantijUgl",. 

" fal!/a-niniJa-titulih ”, " udaminh ” etc.) are the same in two of 
the three or even in all the three places. 3Tom this it 
becomes clear, that whichever path, out of the four paths 
mentioned in the last chapter (13. 24, 25), is f ollowed, the 
characteristics and the conduct of the man, who has reached 
Perfectieui {fikhthi), are the .same in all paths. Nevertheless, 
a,s the doctrine firmly established in the 3rd, 4rh, 5th and 
other chapters, namely, that ‘ no one can escape the 
performance of Desireloss Action remains unaffected 
throughout, one must romemher that all these persons, 
whether called ‘ slithaprajna' or ‘ bhagavad-ihakfa ’ or 
‘ trigmialita all belong to the Path of Karma-Yoga. The 
reader is referred to the explanation of the word ‘ sarvaram- 
bha-^Mrityagi's^yen in the cormiientary on (lI. 12. 19. 
Commentators subscribing to the Path of Renunciation 
imagine that these descriptions of the person, who has 
reached the trltate of I'erfection (siddhavasthd) an independ¬ 
ent of each other; and maintain that the Glti supports 
their own doctrine. But, I have explained at great length 
in Chapters XI and XII of the Gita-Raliasya, th;.,t such an 
interpretatiuii is inconsistent with the anterior and 
posterior contexts, and not the correct interpret ation (See 



1132 


GITA-RA.HASYA oa KARMA-YOGA 


^ ijorni ^JT?ftr%^r5i u » 

^ ^ u II 

p. 450 and pp. 519-520). To proceed: the Blessed Lord 
has thus aii:iWored the two questions of Arjuna. He now 
gives the an'iwer to the question, hcnv such persons 
transcend the three coJistituents—] 

(26) And he, who serves Me with tlie avyahhicara (that 
is, single-aimed) Yoga of Devotion, dedicating all Actions 
solelj' to Me, goes beyond these three constituents, and 
becomes capable of attaining the Imihmabhutavasthn (that is, 
the state of being ‘ bnihmahhata’, or ‘merged in the 
Brahman ’—Trans.); 

[A doubt is likely to arise about this stanza, namely,how 
the state of being a irujundtilu (that i.s, of transcending 
the three constituents), which pertains to the Samkhya path, 
can be obtained by the Bhakti-Yoga, which include.s Action, 

So the Blessed Lord now says—j 
(27) because, 1 am the ultimate seat of the immortal 
and inexhaustible Brahman, of the Perpetual Religion, and 
of the ‘ekantika’ (that is, tiie highest) intense bliss. 

[This stanza means, that as soon as one has given up 
the Sarhkhya Dualism, there remains only one Paramesvara; 
and the state of being a 'trigumfita' is reached by 
worshipping that one Paramesvara. Nevertheless, when 
once it is admitted that there is only one Paramesvara, 
the Gita does not have any dogmatic insistence about the 
means of attaining to Him (see Gl, 13. 24 and 35). It is 
true that the Gita ha.s stated that the Path of Devotion 
is the easiest path, and therefore, most acceptable to 
everybody. But, it has nowhere stated that the other 
paths ought not to be followed. That the Gita supports 
only the Path of Devotion, or only the Path of Knowledge, 
or only the Path of Yoga are opinions, which are fathered 
on the Gita by the .supporters of those respective doctrines. 



aiTA, TRANSLATION & COMMENTARY, OH. XIV 1133 


^it^TSTT^ 

?iftfj5on^;RNn% 5:oi5i2if%wr#ift jtrt 

>1 II 

The doctrine really estaUiBlied by the Gita is Boinething 
inite different. Whether, after a person has acquired the 
Knowledge of the Farainesvara—whatever the means he 
may have employed for the purpose—he should or should 
not continue to perform the various Actione of worldly 
life, for universal welfare, is the chief question in the Gita; 
and the reply to that question has already been given 
before in clear and unmistakable terms to thn effect that 
the Karina-Yoga is the most superior.] 

Thus ends the fourtecntli Chapter entitled Gunatraya- 
ViBHAGA Yoga in tlie dialogue between Sii Krsna and 
Arjuna on the Yoga included in the Science of che Brahman 
(that is, on the Karma-Yoga) in the Upanisad sung (that is, 
told) by tlic Blessed Lord. 



§§ sni^?T?R > 

I5^T% qoiTM ?T^?f ^ ^ tr^c^ il \ >1 

CHAPTER XV. 

[In Chapter XIII, tho Blessed J^ord has considered the 
philosophy of the Body and the Atman together with tho 
similar Bamkhya discrimination between Prakrti and 
Purusa; and in Chapter XIV, after explaining the 
differences whicii arise between tlie natures of different 
persons, as a result of the three constituents, and how on 
that account different final states are obtained by the 
satlvika and other persons, lie has explaintid what is meant 
by being a triguriUtita, what is the Brahml state according 
to Vedanta philosophy, and in what way that state can be 
reached. It is true that all this exposition has been made 
in Saihkhya terminology; yet, it has been made without 
accepting the Saihkhya Dualism; and, as being the 
Spiritual and Empirical Knowledge of that one Para- 
rnesvara, of whom Prakrti and Purusa are both manifesta¬ 
tions. In addition to this description of tho form of the 
Paramesvara, the Ble.ssed Lord has shown in Chapter VIII 
the differences between tiie a<l/ug<iji)a, tho adlujalimi, the 
adhiilaimta ‘itc.-, and lie has also stated, tliat there is only 
one Paramesvara, Who pervades everything, and that He 
is also the Atman (kselrajna) within tho Body (/esefra). 
The Blessed Lord now explain.s why tlie expansion of the 
Universe created by the Paramesvara, or the Naine-d. 
and Form-ed diffusion-out of the Paramesvara, is sometimes 
described by comparing it to a tree or a forest; and He 
then describes the Purusottama-svarupa, which is tho most 
excellent of tho forms of tlie Paramesvara. ] 

Tho Blessed Lord said :—(I) Having its root (one) 
above aiul branches ^manifold) bohnv, and (whicli is) avyaya 
(that is, which will never pciish; ; of wliicli tlie ‘ chandniusi’ 
(that is, the Vedas) arc the leaves, that man, who has 



GITA, TRANSLATION & COMM ENTARY, CH. XV 1135 


'Understooi.! the asvallhu-lTcc, which is describevi thus, is the 
(true) vcda-vettn (that is, one who has understood the Vedas— 
Trans.). 

[The al)ove deycviption i.s of the ‘ Brahma-tf^rksa’ (the 
Brahinic-Tree), or of tlie .sdi'iiHdra-vrksa (the ,ree of the 
Cosmos). Tlie word ‘ smh.'iUru’ Is iiuilerstood in the Marathi 
veraacidar as moauiug 'remaining in the midst of one’s 
wife and children, and performing one's daily dr ties.’ But, 
this narrow meaning is not intended in the present context; 
and m>h.i(lr(i means “the entire world, which ;aii be seen 
by tho eyes, or the visible Gosmo.s”, whict is known 
in Baihkhya. phihxsophy as “ the dilfusion o ' Prakrti ”, 
and in Vedanta philo.soidiy a.s ” the si)readiug-out of the 
Maya ('Illusion) of the Blessed Lord”; and the same thing 
has been de.scribcd in the Anugita as the “Br ihma-vrksa 
and the Brahma-xana” (hnihniMraiujd), (See Ma. Bhii. 
Asva. 35 and 47). Tire idea or the simile that the colossal 
visilde uiriverse ha.s siu'ung from tlie One and Imperceptible 
Parainesvara, just a.s a .sky-high tree s])rings fro'n a minute 
seed, is to he found not only in the Vedic religi)!!, but also 
in other ancient religions; and in modern European 
languages, it is described as the Cosmic-Tree {^dgai-vrksa). 
There is a description in the Rg-Vedu (1. 24, 7) of a tree 
in the S]5here of \hiruna, the root of the ray^ of which 
is uppermosl., the rays themselves extending downwards 
(luchiuh)-, ami in the V'isrm-yahasranama (thousand names 
of Visiiu), ‘ r.irunorrkmh' (the Tree of Varurra) i^ mentioned 
as one of tho thousand names of the Paran esvara. It 
would seem that the ‘ snpaluS(i-i:rk.s(i\ .sitting under which 
Yanra and the ancestors eat and drink together (Rg. 10. 
135. 1); or at tho “top of which is a. swool pippaLi, on which 
two supiirna birds live” (Rg. 1. 104. 22); or “ that pippala 
tree, which is shaken by the di/n deities (the Marudganas)”, 
(Rg, 5. 54. 12), is the same as this tree; and the description 
in the Atharva-Veda, namely, “the asmtthu tree, being 
the home of the gods, is in the third sonrya spliere (in the 
Varuna-loka)”, (Atharva. 5. 4. 3 and 19. 39. 6), would also 
seem to be with reference to this tree. The etymology 
of the word ‘ asnillhn' has been given in t.ic Taittirlya 





1136 


GiTA-RAHASYA OR KARMA-YOGA 


Brahmana (3. 8. 12. 2) as follows, namely.—’“This tree is 
called 'asvattfia', because Agni or Yajna-Prajapati fell 
from the sphere of gods ( deva-loJca ) during the pitnjdna,'* 
and taking the form of a horse (asva), remained invisible in 
it for a year” (See Ma. Bha. Anu. 85). And many etymo¬ 
logists are of opinion that this tree is called 'asvaitha', 
(i. e., horse-stable), because the horses of the Sun take 
rest under it in the Yama-loka (sphere of Yama), during 
the night of the pifrydna. The etymology of that word, 
given in Vedanta philosophy as ;—‘ a ' means ‘ not ’; ‘ sva 
means ‘to-morrow’; and llha' means ‘remaining* 
(aimtHia — not remaining to-morrow), has been imagined 
afterwards. It is true that the form of Maya can be 
described as ‘‘ not remaining to-morrow ”, since tlie form of 
Name-d and Forra-ed Maya is perishable, mutable, and 
changing every moment; but, it is clear from the adjective 
'avyaya ’ (that is, “that which never suffers ''uyaya'or is 
imperishable”), which is used here, that that meaning is not 
intended. The pippala tree was originally known as the 
aivattlui tree; and the Brahmic immortal aivattha tree, 
which has been described in the Kathopanisad in the 
following words, namely, 

urdhvamulo’ vdicsuklia eta 'svafllidh mnatanah I 

tad eva sukram tad brahitui tad oodmrtam ucyate n 
is the same ’ asvattha ’ tree; and the description in the 
Bhagavadgita must have been adopted from the description 
in the Kathopanisad, as will become quite clear from the 
similarity of the words “ wrdhmmTdam adhahsakham ”. As 
the Paramesvara is in heaven above and the jagad-vrksa 
(the Cosmic-Tree), which has grown out of Him, has come 
down to the human sphere, that tree has been described as 
having its root, that is, the Paramesvara above, and having 
its innumerable branches in the shape of the diffused 
Cosmos spread downwards. But, as the descending shoots 
of the ‘ raifct ’ tree (banian or fig-tree) also grow downwards 
from above, we come across another idea in ancient 
religious works that this Cosmic-Tree must be the ‘ vata ’ or 

^ For meaning ol pitryana, see Vol, I pp. 408—412—Trans. 







GITA, TRANSLATION & (COMMENTARY, CH. XV 1137 


the banian tree, and not the pippala tree, lor instance, 
there is a description that the as/ ni/Aa (pippala) tree is the 
tree of tlie jSun, and that, uijngrndlK} ixirmu) v'ksah", that 
is, “the 'nijar/'rodhu’ (a;/ap = downwards; and rodha = 
growing) va/d tree is the tree of Vanina ” (See Gobhilagrhya 
4.7.34). There is a description in the Mahsb iarata (Ma. 
Bha Vaiui, 188 '.)]), that Markandeya IGi saw the 
I’aramesvara in tlie form of an infant on Tie branch of 
an avijaiia (that is, iniperisiiabli’, even at die time of 
general destruction), (that is, downwards- 

growing) ni/ii-vrki^ii ( lig-tree ) at tiic time of tHe praluya 
(Cosmic destruction). Also, the illn.strution which has been 
given ir the Ghaudog.yopanisad for showing how this 
tremendous visible Gosinoo has been createc from the 
Imperceptible Paramosvara i.s also <.)f the seed of the 
litjaiji'oillid' (Chrui. (). 13. 1). The Gosmic-Tree I iYSi;u-i;rA:,sn) 
has also been doscrilied in liie Svetasvacaropanisad 
(Sve, (),<)); but, what tiiut tree is has not bien clearly 
stated ttere; and there i.s a description in tin Mundako- 
panisad that on tliis ti'ou there are .seated two birds, 
namely, tlie Sentient or Personal Self {jlvahthm) and the 
Highest Self { paraiuntiiuin)-, and that onc' if them is 
eating the jiippaln tree, that is, the fruits of the pippala 
tree, which is a do.scription borrowed from the Rg-Veda. 
The third idea ahout the form of the Cosinic-Troo in 
addition to the two ideas, namely, of the pippda and the 
ruta trees, is of tiie ' aadiifnhnrii.' tree; and this tree has 
been ascribed to Dattatroya in tlie Piivaiias In short, 
the three ideas of the world created iiy the May; (Illusion) 
of the Paramosvara being either a pippidu w i. vata or an 
audn vdxv'ii tree are to lie come across in ancient treatises. 
And, on this account, the three names, in terns of a tree, 
namely, " iindiirodho 'diiinburo 'sikifthdh.” (Si e Ma. Bha. 
Aim. 149. 101), have been mentioned in the Vis m-Sahasra- 
iiama: and these throe trees have been considered deities 
and worsliippable in common usage. Besides, the 

VisiiLi-Sahasranama and the Gita ai’e both parts of the 
Mahabharata; and if the Saha.sranama meiitioiis the three 
different names. ' (mdiiihhiini’ ‘ r(Ud’ (nijuirr )dha), and 




1138 


GiTA-KAHASYA OR KARMA-YOGA 


II * II 

‘ c 2 Sraltlia', then the word ‘cisiul/iu’ used in the Gita luust 
betaken as meaning the pip/ialu (asj-allha), and not the 
(mtluuihara or the rohz trees: <and that too is the original 
meaning of that w'ord. 'I'hc vvor<l ‘ clutnilaihsi' in the 
sentence: “of which the leaves are the c/uDi'lawni, that is, 
the Vedas ” is understood as being derived from the root 
V7(ar/’ = to cover (see, Chan. 1. 4. :l); and the similarity of 
thoVcidas with the leaves which cover the tree has thus 
been described; and it has l)een stated at the end that, as 
all this description is according to the Vedic tradition, one 
who knows all this is a ‘ rc^arc/ZdThis is the description 
according to the Vedas. The same tree is now described in 
another way, that is, according to Haihkhya philosophy—] 

(2) Its hr,inches, which arc fed by the (three) sattva and 
other constituents, and from wliich, slioots of objects of sense 
(in the shape of sound, touch, colour, taste, and smell) liave 
sprung, have spread out downwards as also upwards; and 
ultimately, its root-lings, in the shape of Actions, are also 
grown downwards to a great distance in the lunuan sphere. 

[ According to Saihkhya philosophy, there are only two 
fundamental elements, namely, Prakrti and I’urusa ; and I 
have explained in great detail at p. of Chap. \T1I of 
the Gita-Rahasya how the 23 elements, namely, ni/thut and 
others, come into existence, and how tlie Cosmic-Tree is 
formed, when the three-coiistitneiited Prakrti (Nature) 
spreads out its diffusion before the Tnrusa (Spirit). Hut, as 
Prakrti is not independent, but is only a part of the Parame- 
svara, according to Vedanta philosophy, the doctrine of that 
philosophy is, that this diffusion of the three-constitueiited 
Prakrti cannot ho looked upon as an independent tree, but 
should be taken merely as the branches of an ‘ Tirdhvcmtala' 
(upwards-rooted) pippala tree. Consistently with this 
doctrine, there is now a slightly differoiit dcHcvii)tioii to the 
effect that the branches, fed by the three constituents, of the 
Vedic adhah-sukhn (downwards-branched) tree, described in 




GITA, TRANSLATION & COM MENTARY, ()H. XV 1139 

§§ 5T JTT?fTt ^ ^ ’HMIdaT I 

3P3R^sf ^%iT fejTcrr II ^ II 

rTcT*. ?TrqR*(rilTrT54 ?IRR^>MI 5T R^T^rf »i?T; I 
rT^ srq^ ?R-. STf^: SR|rTT ^’CTUtt II 8 II 

the first stanza, l\ave spoard out not only ‘ dow nwards ’ but 
also ‘ upwards ’: and thus the thread of the doctrine of 
Causality ilmrimi-vipUkii-iynikriiju) has ultir lately been 
interwoven into the texture. In the descrijdion of the 
BrahniiC'Tree {brahma-VTksu) given in the Anugita, no 
attempt has been made to harnioni.se the Vidic and the 
Bamkhya descriptions; and Lie hralrina-i'rhm described 
there is of only the 34 Elements of Samkhy i philosophy 
(See Ma. Blia. Asva. 35. 32, 33; and Gi. Ra. Ch. V^III, p. 343), 
But that has not been done in the Oita; and an attempt 
has been made in tlio.se two stanzas to harmcn.se the Vedic 
description of the Paramesvara, as a tree in the form of this 
visible world, with the Bamkhya description o ' the Cosmic 
Tree (bnifundiMla-iirksa) or the diffusion-out of Rrakrti. In 
order to obtain Release, one must be get rid of diis develop¬ 
ment of tlie three-coustitucnted upwards-rooti d tree; but 
this tree is so tremendous, that it is impossible to find out its 
origin. Tluirefore, the Blessed Lord now shovs the way 
how this universe-comprehending tree can bo destroyed, and 
how the Immortal Principle at the root of it can be 
Realised—] 

(5) But, in this world, one cannot ascertii in the form of 
it (as has been described above); nor does one find its end, 
or commcucement or support; cutting this asin ttha (tree), of 
which the roots have gone incalculably deep, w tli a powerful 
sword in the shape of Non-Aitaehincnt, (I) one should, 
thereafter, (saying) “1 am now going to tl at primordial 
Purus:i (S])irit—Trans.) from Which (this) ancient (creative) 
PruvRti (Activity—I'rans.) arose ", find out thut seat, having 
gone where, there is no return. 

[ The ‘ sa’tnmrn ’ (extensive development) of t Ue universe 
is the Name-d and Eorm-ed Karma (Acticii), and this 



1140 


GiTA-RAHASYA OR KARMA-YOGA 


Karma is eternal; destroying this Karma means giving up 
the feeling of Attachment to it: it is not possible to destroy 
it in any other way ; because, by its very nature, it is 
eternal and inexhaustible. All this subject-matter has 
been discussed in Chap. X of the Gita-Rahasya at pp. 394 to 
401, to which the reader is referred. The doctrine that 
Karma is eternal has been expressed in the words, “ one 
cannot ascertain the true form of it; nor does one find its 
end, or commencement”, in stanza 2 ; and it has been stated 
later on that Non-Attachment is the only means for 
destroying the Tree of Karma. Besides, a man gets results 
according to the conviction of his mind at the time of 
worshipping (Gl. 8. 6). Therefore, stanza 4 describes the 
conviction (bhavanu) one should have in one’s mind while 
this process of cutting this Karma-Tree is going on. Thi.s 
interpretation has to bo put on this stanza, because, in the 
reading adopted in the Samkarabhasya, namely, 
cudija/n purusaih prapadi/e”, the verb “ prapadge” in the 
first person singular present tense ha.s been used; and some 
such word as ‘ iti' has to bo taken as implied. If one accepts 
the reading mentioned in the Ramanuja-bhasya, namely, 
“/awi iiva cudgaih purtnyiih prapadged yabih pravfffih etc.”, in 
order to get over this difficulty, it is possible to translate the 
stanza as: “one should find out the Seat, having gone 
where, there is no return; (and) one should go and reach 
That, from which this Cosmos was created”. But, as the 
root prapdd' is an Titimmepcida root, it cannot get the 
vUihyarlhi third person form ‘ prafmhjet ‘ prapadyet' is 
a parasmaipada form, which is grammatically incorrect; 
and that is why this reading has not been adopted in 
the Samkarabhasya; and that was the right thing to do. 
The word 'prapadye’ has been used in some hymns in 
the Chandogyopanisad in this way, implying 'Hi' (See 
Chan. 8. 14. 1). I need not point out that though the 
verb 'prapadye,' is in the first person, it cannot be taken 
to refer to the speaker, namely, to Sri Krsna, Who is giving 
the advice. The Blessed Lord now explains what beneficial 
result is to be obtained by acting in this manner—■ ] 







GITA. TRANSLATION & COMMENTARY, OH, XV 1141 

3T«nrin%r?n T^firr^mr-1 
era: >' '-^ >' 

?r rr^^?T^ ^ ?T ?T^TT^ 5T qra^i I 
^STrra ?T RHTefr^ JW H ^ « 

§§ ^ifrT' ’a^'TRra*. I 

JiiT;^gr€rR??Trr5t srfjw^^fra ^^ra »^9 > 

(5) Wlio me free Irom vmiit}' :iiul ignorancj, who have 
conquered the fault of being attached; who are steadily- 
engrossed in Meta,physical Knowledge ; who ! re desireless, 
and liberated from the pairs of Opposites 1 ke pain and 
happiness etc., such Scients go anil reach this nexhaustible 
Seat. (6) That is my super-excellent Seat, having gone 
where, there is no return. It is not illuminated, whether 
by the Sun, or by the Moon, or by hire. 

[Chit of these, the sixth .stan/.a has apiieured in the 
Svetasvatara ((!. 1.4), the Muii<laka (2. 2. lO), and the 
Katha (5.15) Upanisads, The Sun, the M oo a, and the 
stars all fall into the class of Namo-d and Ew'n -ed things; 
and, as the Parahruhntan is lioyond Name and Form, it is 
quite clear that the Hun, the Muon etc., all c erivo their 
light from tlie Parabrahiuan, and that notliing eLe is needed 
for illiuniriating the Parabrahnmn, The word “ parama- 
slhatui” (super-excellent Seat) in the above st: nza means 
the Parabrahiuan; and being merged in this Irahman is 
tlie state of Rolea-se known as the ‘ Brahin i-nirvana 
The exposition of the Metaphysical Knowlei ge of the 
Parahraluiian, taking the simile of a tree, is no^;^ over. It 
now remains to describe the form of the P iruaottama 
(puriiS(it/"iiia-f!rarupa); but the Bies.sed Lord lint explains 
the evolution of the Jiva, and the appurtenaru description 
of the form of the .iJva, which is sugge.sted )y His la.st 
words, “ liaving gone where, there is no return”. 1 

(7) My primordial at'/isa (jiail.iclc — I'raus.) takes the 
form of Jiva in the Jiva-workl (in the land of Karma), and 
draws (to itself), the ‘six’ including the Mind, (that is to say, 
the Mind and the five (subtle) senses; this is known as 



1142 


GiTA-RAHASYA OR KARMA-YOGA 


^frrtcnf^ >' c »i 

^ vnui^sr ^ < 
arfggm « % <i 


the ‘linga-sarira’). (8) When (this) Isvara (that is, Jiva) 
acquires a (gross) Body, and when it leaves the (gross) 
Body, then, just as the wind takes away the smell from 
the shelter (of the smell, such as, the flowers etc.), so also 
does this (Jlwa) take away with itself the above-tnentioned 
(Mind and five subtle senses). (9) Making its abode in 
the ears, the eyes, the skin, the tongue, and the nose» 
as also in the Mind, this ( Jiva) thereby enjoys the objects 
of sense. 

[ In the first of these three stanzas has been described the 
Subtle or linga-Body ; and then there is a description of how 
this Subtle Body (linga-surlra) enters the Gross Body, how 
it leaves the Gross Body, and how remaining in the Gross 
Body, it enjoys the objects of sense. According to Saihkhya 
philosophy, this Subtle Body is made up of the 18 elements 
starting from Mahan upto the five .subtle tamnalni-H ; and 
it is stated in the Vedanta-Sutras (3. 1. 1), that the five 
subtle elements and ju mia (life) are also included in it (see 
Ch. VIII of the Gita-Rahasya, pp. 355 to 263). Similarly, 
it is stated in the Maitryupanisad (9. 10), that the Subtle 
Body is made up of 18 elements. Therefore, one has to 
conclude that the words “ Mind and five organs” point to 
the collection of the other elements, which are in the Subtle 
Body. The doctrine that the Jivatman does not come into 
existence over and over again each time from the Para- 
mesvara, but that it i.s an ‘ eternal ai'itsu ’ or particle of the 
Paramesvara (Gi. 2. 24) has also been enunciated in the 
Vedanta-Sutras by using the two words ‘ nihja ’ and ‘ fv'nsa ’ 
(Ve. Sii. 2. 3. 17 and 43); and this fact fortifies the .state¬ 
ment in Chap. XIII (13. 4), that the consideration of the 
Body and the Atman has been adopted into the Gita from 
the Brahma-Sutras. (See Gi. Ra. App. pp. 756 to 758), The 
word ‘ umsa ’ has to be taken as meaning “ just as .space 





GITA, TRANSLATION & COMMENTARY, CH. XV 1143 

?rTfq srr sarrtrcTrn?; i 

qrgq^^ifTri in^T^ijqt n ? o n 

^TtfqST^ q^?jyr?ifriT^5rT%-£m*i I 
?r?T^^':q^mfJTT5n %# n ? \ ii 

§§ ^Tl^r^qrT ^ I 

?T^I#r rT#TlTff¥'^JTTfrqj*? II '^11 

irmrrq^q ^ i 

^omTT HCJTir ^Jr^r ?:^TrHqi: 11 5,^ 11 

* 

{iik:ifa) is part of tlie rccoiitaclo {ijlialit), which contains it ” 

(i. e., ili(itahas<l(liml (Ousd)-, and not as an ‘ anisa' 
(pai'ticR), which lias been cutout, as has hem shown in 
Chapter IX. of the Gita-Ralmsya. (pp. 338-339). When in 
this way, the Action,s of taking birth in a Bod>, leaving the 
Body, and enjoying the objects of sense are going on—J 

(10) F 00 Is do not realise That, Wliidi leaves the body, or 
remains, or enjoys (not by Itscll, but) as a risult of being 
united wall the constituents. J’eoplc, who see with the 
jnnua-ca/i.-iu (that is, eyes of Knowledge—J rang.) realise 
(It). (11) Similarly, those Yogins who strive, realise this 

Atman installed in themselves; but, those, ^vhose Atman 
(that is. Reason) is not evolved, such ignorant ocople cannot 
realise It (jven by striving. 

t After stating in the lOtli and ilth stan'/.aa, that Self- 
Realisation results by following the path of Eanna-Yoga, 
by means of the “ eyes of Knowledge”, the description of 
the evoluti(m of the Jlva (the Personal Sel:’) has been 
completed. Now, some further rloscription i.s f. iven here of 
the all-pervasiveness of tlie Atman, by way ul i [itroduction, 
as bad been done previously in Chapter VII (see, 7. 8-19); 
and then from stanza 16 onwards, a description of tire form 
of tlie Pnrusottama is given.[ 

(1:1) I'hat brilliance, which being in tlie fun, illumines 
the whole world; that brilliance, which is in the Moon and 
in Fire, know that that brilliance is Mine. ' i5) Similarly^ 
entering the earth, I maintain (all) created beings by My 



1144 


GiTA-RAHASYA OR KARMA-YOGA 


3T^ mfoRf ^^JTrf^rT*. I 

fm** ^gfiTfrf;m^!T ^ i 

-h'^T^ST %?fT U II 


brilliance ; and, becoming the fluid Soma ( Moon), I maintain 
Ml aumdhl (that is, all vegetable life). 

[ The word ‘ noma ’ has the double meaning ‘ soma-valli. ’, 
and also ‘Moon’; and as the Moon is fluid, radiant 
(adisnntdnj, and white, so also is the soma-ralH, according to 
the Vedas; and both have been called “the Lord of 
Vegetables”. But, having regard to the anterior and 
posterior conte.xts, the Moon is cleaidy meant here. After 
having stated in this stanza, that He is the brilliance in the 
Moon, it is stated in this very stanza that He is also the 
property of the Moon to maintain vegetation. There are 
descriptions elsewhere also, that, as the Moon is fluid, it 
contains this quality, which causes the growth of vegeta¬ 
tion. ] 

(14) Becoming the Vaisvanara-formed Fire, 1 inhabit the 
the bodies of created beings; and being united with the 
prana and the apana * breaths, I digest the four kinds of 
food (namely, that which is to be eaten, to be sucked, to be 
licked, and to be drunk). (15) Similarly, 1 am installed 
in the heart of everybody; and Memor)^, Knowledge and 
their apohanavi] (that is, destruction) are My doing; and 
I am also That, Which is to be known by means of all 
the Vedas; 1 am the author of Vedanta; and I am also 
the Knower of the Vedas. 


( The ilnd part of this stanza has appeared in the 
Kaivalyopanisad (Kai. 2. 3); and the only difference of 
reading there is vedair ancAmTi ” instead of “ m/afs ca 
sarvaih ”. Therefore, the inferences drawn by some critics, 

* For ineauing of prana and apana, see p. 959 supra —Trans. 

I ‘-ajinhanafk” is also translated as “R.-asoning faculty” 
(See Apto, Praetiral Sanskrit-Enplish Dictionary, 19i:4, p, 109_Trans.). 




GITA,TRANSLATION &COMMENTARY, GH. XV 1145 


§§ gn%»fr 3^^ ^'t% ^ ^ I 

’FT^frfm ^rTHST II H 

■3tTIT: 3^^^rerfa5 q<fITf%f3?Tfrr: I 

R¥F?TcIiq '» I'S W 
^^lTr?:^?:*TrfTrTrS^*I^^r?R ^TtTJT: I 
airflSf^R ^ » 

oil tha assumption that tlie word 'Vedanta' was not in 
existenco at the time of the Gita, that eithcr this stanza 
must he looked upon as an interpolation, ii‘ the word 
‘ Vedanta ’ must he taken as meaning something else, are 
wrong. The word ‘ Vedanta ’ has appeared in the Mundaka 
(;l. %. 6), and in the Svetasvatm-a (6. :32) irpmiisads; and 
some of the hymns from the Svetasvatara arc. to he found 
literally in the Gita. Now, the Blessed Lord gives a 
description of the characteristics of the Purusoitama, based 
.on the etymology of that word—| 

(16) lu this sphere, there are two Purusa-s (that is, 
entities—I'nius.), namely, the ‘ ksaya’ and the ‘aksara’. 
The ‘kfiu-ra’ means all (perishable) being;, and That 
(Imperceptible Principle in the form of Prakrti), Which is 
‘ kutastha’ (that is, at the root ( hUa ) of all these beings) is 
called the ‘aki^ara’. (17) But that super-excellent purus^a 
{ purumttaTna) h different (from both these). It is known 
as the ‘Paramatman’. 1 hut inexhaustible Isiara pervades 
the three spheres and maintains (the three spheres). 
(18) As 1 am beyond the ‘kmra', and am (a I’urusa), even 
more excellent {uttama) than tlic ‘aksara’, therefore, in 
ordinary parlance and also in Vedanta, I am known as the 
' Purusottama ’ ( purusa -f uttama ). 

[ The w orda ‘ kmra' { Mutable) and ' akmra ’ ( Immutalilc) 
used ill stanza 16 are respectively sy nonymous with the words 
‘ ryakin.' (Perceptible) and ‘ amjakld' (Impercepti lie)—or the 
perceptible universe and the imperceptible Piakrti—used 
in Samkhya philosophy. Out of these, the meaning of 
‘ ksara’ a.s “a perceptible perishable substance made up 




1146 


GiTA-RAHASYA OR KARMA-YOGA 


of the five primordial Elements” is patent. But, as the 
adjective 'aksara' has several times before been also 
applied to the Parabrahinan (See Gl. 8. 3; 8, 21; 11. 37 and 
12. 3 ), one must bear in mind that the word ‘ aksara ’ used 
in defining the ‘ Purusottama’ does not mean the 'aksara 
Parabrahinan ’ but means the ‘ aksara Prakrti ’ of Sarhkhya 
philosophy. And in order that such a confusion should 
not arise, the word '(tkmra' has been intentionally defined 
in stanza 16 as meaning the “kutastha Prakrti” (BeeGi. 
Ra. Chap. IX pp. 275 to 280). In short, the AKSABA 
BrahMAiT, which is beyond both the perceptible Cosmos 
and the imperceptible Prakrti (see my commentary on 
Gi. 8. 20-22) is essentially the same as the PURUSOTTAMA, 
Who is beyond the ' ksara' (visible Cosmos) and the 
'aksara' (Prakrti). Both these are known as the 
PaRAMATMAN; and it has been stated in Chapter XlII 
that this Paramatman resides in the Body in the form 
of the kselrajna (Gl. 13. 31). Erorn this it follows, that 
the Original Principle arrived at by the Consideration of 
the Mutable and the Immutable, namely, the 'aksara 
Brahman ’ is also the ultimate resultant arrived at by 
the Consideration of the Body and the Atman: or, in other 
words, that there is only one Purusottama both in the 
Body ( pimhi ) and in the Cosmos (brahinatida). It has also 
been stated that the same Principle is to be found in the 
Adhibhuta, the Adhiyajna, etc., or in the (symbolical) 
ancient pippala tree. That man, who has Realised this 
Unity in the Co.smos, and continues to Realise till death 
that “there is only one Atman in all beings”, attains 
the Paramesvara, while he is practising the Karma-Yoga: 
such is the ultimate summary of this exposition of 
Spiritual and Empirical Knowledge, It is not that one 
cannot attain Relea.se solely by Devotion to the Para¬ 
mesvara, and without performing Actions. But, that is 
not the import of the exposition of Spiritual and Empirical 
Knowledge in the Gita; for it has been stated already 
in the beginning of Chap. VII of the Gita, that the 
exposition of Spiritual and Empirical Knowledge in 
the Gita has been made solely (i) for showing that one 



GlTA, TRANSLATION & COMMENTARY, ( H, XV 1147 

H nr ^TRrT II \% H 

!I?irni ^rreriTT^S^Ti i 

VrT|:irT lL?*Tr?^?TR[ MRrT II » 3 II 

^sirq^nir 



q’^^^stiqrq: II 1*4 II 


shuuld i)erform all worldly affairs with a Desindess Mind, 
which has been purified, whether by Knowh dge or by 
Devotion; and (ii) for showing how Release cm thereby 
be obtained. To proceed; the Blessed Lord lu w explains 
what beneficial result is obtained l)y knowing this—] 

(19) Who thus Realises, witliout being engrossed by 
Ignorance, that I am the Purusottauia, he, O Bharata! 
becomes omniscient, and worsliips Me ii all ways. 
(20) O sinless Bharata ! I have thus explained this science, 
which is n mystery of mysteries; ])y understmding this, 
(a man ) will become ' buddhiman' (that is buddha or 
a Knower) and ‘ krlakrlya' (that is, ‘one who has done 
all tliat ought to be done'—Trans. ) 

[The word ' bud d hi inn n‘ here means ' buddha'or a Jnhta 
(Sclent, Knower); because, the words 'baidha’ and 
'kriakrtija' have been used in the same seise in the 
Bharata (San. 248. 11). The ordinary meaning of the 
word 'huddlin' namely, ‘the Buddha incarnation* has 
not appeared anywhere in the Mahabharata (See Gl, Ra. 
App. pp. 788-789)]. 

Tims ends the fifteenth chajiter entitled Pui.usottama- 
Yoga in the dialogue between Srt Krsna and Arjuna on 
the Yoga included in the Science of tlic Bralimin (that is, 
on the Karma-Yoga) in the Upanisad sung (that is, told) 
by the Blessed Lord. 









5TT5f 'jtt^» 5[ n» » 

^qr »i^^q^Crq ?II^4 glT^qN^R » * » 

CHAPTER XVI. 

[ The I’urusotUina-Y'of^a IK Uie climax of tlie Knowledge 
<jf the Mutahle and tlu) lmnnita))le; and really epoaking, 
the cxpoKitioii of .Ifiana and Vijiiana, which was started in 
Chapter VII, for sliowiiig how a man c.aii attain lleleuse hy 
Realising the Paramesvara, while he is following the Path 
of Karnia-Yoga, should have heen finished liere, and the 
suinnuiry started. But in Chapter IX (h. I'i), the BlesBed 
Lord has merely hrielly stated that the ungodly person does 
nut realise His iiiiperceptihle and excellent form ; and lie, 
therefore, now commenees this chapter for describing tin; 
character of such an ungodly person; and after tixplaining 
in the next chapter why sneli (lilferenccs arise between men 
and men, tlio entire Cita lias heem summarised in Chapter 
XVIIl. J 

The Blosscil Lord said:—il) Fearlessness, a pure and 
.satlvika temperament, ' j/'iana-yoga-vyavasthiti' [that is, the 
Nvell-calcuhitcd proportionmeut of juanu (-niarga) and 
(Karma-) Yoga], generosity, endurance, sacrifice, ‘ .svad/iydya ’ 
(tluit is, following the religion proscribed for one's status-in- 
life), performing a,usteritics, slraight-forwardncss, (2 ) harm- 
lessaess, vcracitv, not getting angry, ‘ tydga' (that is, 
k'emmeiution of the Fruit of Action), tranquility, ‘ iipaminya', 
(that is, overgrowing one’s narrow-mindedness, and acquiring 
a generous frame of mind), kindness towards all beings, 
absence of avarice, mildness, feeling ashamed (of evil 
action)> ' ncdpala' ithat is, giving up useless sictivily), 



GITA, TRANSLATION & COMMENTARY, Cl XVI 1149 


iTErirfT vhttt ii ^ n 

(3j brilliiiiicc, forgiveness, sleiidiiiess, purity, non-hatred, not 
being ovei-dignified, these (qualities), OBharata! are acquired 
by persons, who arc born to godlike eudowmenbi. 

[These 2tt qualities of Kodliko eiiduwtneut are practically 
the same as the characUristics of ' jtiUiui ’ giver in Chapter 
XIII (Gi. 1:3, 7-1L); and that is why ‘aj/i'ani’ has been 
included in the ungodlikn characteristics in the next stanza. 

It is not possible to define the meaning of each word in the 
list of these 20 qualities in such a way tlnd it will he 
ditterent from the deliuitions of tire utlier words ; and such 
was not even the intention of the Blessed Lord. B’or 
instance, liuriulessness (uZ/fd/sd) is divided by some persons 
into ' kaijil.'a' (bodily), ' Mrihi' (voc.il), and ' m.dn't,silM' 
(mental); and, tliey look upon angrily Inirting lire mind of 
another [rerson as a kind of liiinnlnlno.ss {/n///f-a). If mre, 
similarly, canisiders tlio three aspects of ‘ parity ’, not Ireing 
angry, not hating any one, and other quali .ies can be 
included in ‘mental pnril-y'I'lii-re is a detailed descri])- 
tion of self-restraint, austerities, veraciLy, anc avarice in 
Chapters 1 fU to 163 of the Santiparva of the iM ihabharata. 
Out of the.se, the word ‘ (htmti ’ (self-restraiiit) has there beau 
taken in an ext(’nsive meaning, soa.s to include 'orgiveness, 
steadiness, liannle,ssne.s,s, truth, pleading, and other several 
25 or 30 (jualities (San. 160); and in exposition of ^ sati/a \ 
(veracity), that tiuality is sa-id to include l)y itself the 
following tiiirteen ((iialitie,s, namely, ti iithfulness, 
e(iuai)ilif.,y, self-rest,i-uiiit, ah.scjice uf jealousy, iorgiveness, 
shame, palii lice, want of envy, sncrilico (//ly.i/,,'), meditation 
idhijiina), ‘ itrijalu ’ (desire to henelit others), endurance, and 
kindness; a,lul these various w'ords have also been defined 
in th(3 same place. Grouping toff-. tlior many ( ualities in 
this way under one heatling is a matter of learning : and if 
each quality is consiilerod in ttiis way, It wil 1 b ; necessary 
to write a troati.se on evtu-y one liuality. All these, 
qualities liavo been ennmeratod in tin; above f tanza witli 
the sole intention that one slionld thereby get i complete 




1150 GTTA-RAHASYA on KARMA-YOGA 


fqrsfwTTfra ^ t 

3T^ ^T fi(5 T ld^q ’TT’^ I> « H 

t^t ^qigr u ^ »7fTT» 

JTT ^<7^ t^y7TnT3TRTTS% trnrgfgf II H II 

idea of tho saHrika form of godlike endowment; and that, 
if some meaning is not conveyed by any one word, it 
should 1)0 included in another word. I have interpreted the 
word “ jnaiuii/nga-vijav<islliiii" in the above list, in 
accordance with Gi. 4. 41 and 42, so as to support the 
Karma-Yoga. Tho words Igaija and dhrti have been, 
defined by the Blessed Lord Himself in Chapter XVJII, to 
which the reader is referred (18. 4 and 29). Having thus 
mentioned tho qualities included in godlike endowment, 
the Blessed Lord now describes the opposite, namely, the 
ungodliko endowment—] 

(4) Hypocrisy, pride, over-dignity, and also, O Parthu 1 
anger, ‘paru^ya’ (^that is, cruelty), and ignorance are 
facquiredj by those who are born in the ungodlikc endow¬ 
ment. 

[In the 164th and 165th chapters of the Santiparva of the 
Mahabharata, some of these qualities have been described; 
and in the end, it is also stated who is to bo called 
a ‘ nrSdiiisii As ‘ ajnanti ’ (Ignorance) has been described 
in this stanza as one of the characteristics of the ungodlike 
endowment, it is clear that ' juatui' (Knowledge) is 

a ciiaracteristic of the godlike endowment. Having in 
this way described tho two kinds of natures one comes 
accross in tho world—] 

(^5) (Out of these) The godlike endowment is considered 
(ultimately) productive of Release; and the ungodlike 
(endowment), productive of bondage. O Pandava 1 you are 
born in the godlike endowment! Do not lament! 

(The Blessed Lord has thus shortly explained the fate of 
persons possessing these two kinds of nature. He now 
describes in detail the ungodliko (asun) person—] 





GITii, TKANSLATION& COMMENTARY, OH. XVI 1151 


^ 3TT^ o:?! ^ I 

srra 3n^ ^'4 ^ n i« 

STff% ^ fitfT% ^ ^JTT ^ r^fTl^n I 
^ JTif^r sr ^ h »i 
SRTr^TJTITf^ H I 

f^iTR5Tr^>rHt3^ " “ 

{6} In this world, two kinds of beings conae into existence, 
lone) godlike, and (the other) ungodlike. ( Out of these) 

I have described to you in detail the godliSce (variety); 

(now ) O Partha ! 1 uur describing to you the ungodlike 
(variety ), to which listen. 

[As the description given by the Blessed Lord in the 
previous chapters of how a Karina-Yogin should behave, 
what the Brahini state is, who is to he called a sHthaprajr'ui 
ora ‘ hhiigaradbhakht’ ora ' triguvUfitd', and w lat Jnana is 
etc., as also the description of the godlike endowment 
giveti in the first three .stanzas is the s^me as the 
description of a person having a 'tlniva' (godlike) nature, 
the Blessed Lord has here said that the 'daivu' variety 
has been described by Him in detail before. T lere is some 
reference in Chapter IX to the ungodlike endowment 
(9.11 and 12); but as that description is incomplete, it is 
completed in this chapter. ] 

(7) Ungodlike persons do not understand what pravrtti is, 
(that is, what should be done ), nor wlrat nn'r.ti is, (that is, 
what should not be done ); and, purity, goed behaviour, 
or veracity have no place in them. (8) These (ungodlike 
persons) say; “the wdiole world is unreal, ' apratii^fha' 
(that is, without any support), * amsvara' (tbit is, existing 
without a Pannes vara ) and ‘ a-paraspara-samhh^ita' (thatisj 
not created one from the other); (in short) what can be 
the object of it, if not enjoying the objects of sense by 
liuman beings f" 

[Although the meaning of this stanza is clear, there is 
a great deal of difference of opinion about the inter¬ 
pretation of the words used in it. In my opinion, this is 





1152 


GITA-EAHASYA OR KAEMA-YOGA 


a description of the opinions of atheists like Carvaka and 
others, who disputed both the Vedanta and Sarhkhya 
doctrines relating to the construction of the world; and 
therefore, the words used in these stanzas refer to a doctrine 
contrary to both the Saihkhya and the Vedanta doctrines. The 
Vedantist looks upon this world as perishable, and looks for 
the Imperishable Eeality— sati/aai/a sal/iam” (Bi;. 2. 3. 6)— 
in it; and looks upon that Eeal Element as the fundamental 
support or ‘pratislhU ’—“brahinupiUTuih pratihtha" (Tai. 2. 5.)- 
of it. But the demoniac persons believe that this world is 
'u-satyam', that is, not containing ‘ satya ' (Eeality); and that 
it is, therefore ,' a-pratispiain \ that is, not having a pratispifi 
or support. But, a doubt may be raised that although the 
imperceptible Parabralunan of the Vedantists may in this 
way be not acceptable to demoniac persons, they may be 
accepting the Perceptible Jsvara, Who is worshipped in 
the Path of Devotion. Therefore, the third word 'anismra' 
(ana + livara) has been used in this stanza, in order to 
make it perfectly clear that such demoniac persons do not 
even accept the existence of an Isvara in the world. 
When once the fundamental foundation of the world 
has thus been denied, one is also compelled to deny 
the explanation of the order of creation of the world 
contained (i) in the Upanisadic words; “ Utman akasah 
sabibhubih I akasad vayuh \ vdyor agnih \ ayner upah l 
adbhyah prlhivi I prthivyU omdluiydh I usadhibhyah annam c 
amidt purumh \ ” * (Tai. 2. 1); as also (ii) in the Sathkhya 
doctrine, which looks upon Prakrti and Purusa as two 
independent Fundamental Elements, and looks upon all 
perceptible objects as being the result of the mutual support 
{annyonyairaya), that is, of the intermixture, of the suttva, 
rajas, and tamas constituents. Because, if this chain or 
order of succession is accepted, then, going backwards from 
ell the objects in the visible world, one will have to admit 

* This quotation, which has not. bee i translated into Marathi by 
the author, means ; ‘‘ Ether (or space), i« born from the Self ; the 

air, from Ether (or space) ; Fire, from the Air ; Water, from Fire ; 
Earth, from Water; vegetables, from the Earth ; foo), from the. 
vegetables; and man from food ”—Trans. 




UlTA,TEANSLATION& COMMENTARY, OH. XVI 1153^ 


that tliere is some origin for the world. Therefore, the 
demoniac people do not admit that the various objects in 
the world are parasparasambhuld, that is, created one from 
the otiier in a particular order. When once such a belief 
about the creation of the world is fixed in the nind of any 
person, the human l)eing itself becomes the most important 
object; and it nece.ssarily follows, as a natural conclusion, 
that all the things in the world have been created only for 
satisfying the Desire (/caiiia-vUsaiia) of that iiuman being, 
ajid have no other purpose ; and this meaning is conveyed 
by the words Idniauipil kainahiiUiikam'’ that is ‘‘what 
other object can it have except to satisfy De sire used 
at the end of the stanza, and also l)y the subsequent stanzas. 
Some commentators refer the words ‘' aparaspam- 
saihbfmkim'’ to the words ‘ kiniunyaih’ •, and interpret the 
stanza in the following way, namely, “ does one see any¬ 
thing, which is not created Ity the ‘ parmpara ' that is, the 
union between the male and the female ? Nc; and if no 
such thing is to be found, tlien this world is certainly 
‘ kUnialu'luka’ that is, come into existence at a result of 
the Desire (kamecchU) of tlie male for the female ”: and 
some others break up ‘ aparaiijHira ’ in a very strange way 
as apuras ca paras ca —aparasjxirau”; and tl ley interpret 
the stanza as meaning;-itself means ‘male and 
female and the whole world being created from these two, 
the mutual desire of the male for the female is the only 
object for it; and there is no other object”. But, this 
interpretation is not straight-forward. ‘ aparas paras co ’ 
will give rise to the compound‘‘u/jara-para ” ; and there 
will not l>e the consonant ‘.v’, (the sakura), in the middle, as 
is to be found in ‘aparaspara’. Besides, if one l onsiders the 
previous words ‘ a-mtjja\‘a-jrraHstliu' etc , it is clear that 
‘ a-paraspara-sambhula ' must be a na«-compound ; and then 
one has to admit that the word ‘ jKtraspara-mnib/mta' means 
“the mutual creation {anyonya-jamm) of yuna-s (constituents) 
out of p/i,?;n-s ” described in Sarhkhya philosophy (Gl. Ra. 
p. 313, to 315). The two words ‘ anyonya ’ and ‘ paraspara' 
are synonymous with each other; and both these words are 
used in Samkhya philosophy hr describing "jhe mutual 





1154 


GlTA-BAHASYA OR KARMA-YOGA 


^ ^faH«l 5«T 5TgTf*TRtS5qi^' I 

lITTcdsf^. II % II 

?FnWlfsir^ isijt I 

^TRTrqvinTqTJTT T%f^! ii \l » 


effects cif the constituents on each other (see Ma. Bha. San. 
305 ; and Saih. Ka. 12. 13). The Madhvahhasya on the 
Gita accepts this meaning; and in explaining how the 
various things in the world spring one out of the other, it 
gives the same stanza as in the Gita, namely, “ amfad 
5/w(;a/(/i/</n7/(7«i ” etc., that is, “ rain-showers spring out of 
the sacrifice (because, the oblations thrown into the fire 
reach the Sun), food springs from raiiKshowers, and living 
beings spring from food ” (Gi. 3. 14 ; Manu. 3-79). But, as 
the statement in tl\e Taittirlya Upanisad is more ancient 
and more exhaustive than this, 1 have quoted it above as 
an authority. Nevertheless, the words ‘ a-jxmi-tjxini- 
sawbhula' in the Oita are, in my opinion, indicative of the 
Samkhya theory, rather than the Upanisadic theory, of the 
creation of the universe. The Blo.ssed I^ord now explains 
what effect this opinion of these demoniac persons, 
regarding the creation of the universe, has on their 
behaviour. Tlie expression ' kamahaituka ' used at the end 
of the above stanza is now made further clear. ] 


(9) Accepting this view’, these feeble-minded, soul-less, and 
malevolent persons perform cruel Actions, and come into 
existence only to destroy the world; (10) and sheltering 
themselves behind ‘ kamit’ (that is, the desire to enjoy 
the objects of sense ), which can never be fully satisfied, 
these (demonic persons), saturated with hypocrisy, false 
dignity, and pride, entertain (in their mind) false con¬ 
clusions, (that is, unreasonable ideas), and engage in 
dirt)’ Actions. (11) Similarly, being engrossed lifelong 
with immeasurable anxiety (to enjoy happiness), being 
steeped in enjoying the objects of sense, and firmly believing 




GITA, TEANSLATION & COMMENTARY, CM. XVI 1155 


1^5=^ ^?TJnTmT'4jT7?rT^!n5^55T^2iTs^ n » 







3f€l JTiiT i?r I 

ts*arfrsiJTi h ? 81 » 



?R?ITfJT JTlf^ 


11 II 



sr^n qfT^ n ii 

STTrTrq^r rq rTT i ^5T5m ^«tRI ' «Tf r i lf ^q rTI: I 

5mT?rt^ ^^Rir#iri:4'K*j; n n 

that that is everything; (12) being bound by hundreds 
of bonds of hope, and being subject to Desire and Anger, 
(these demoniac persons ) entertain the ambition of amassing 
huge wealth, by injustice, in order to enjoy pleasure. (13) 
(They say;) “To*day I have acquired tliis; (to-morrow) I shall 
get that desire satislied; this wealth is (with me); and 
again that (wealth) also will become mine; (14) I have killed 
this enemy; and I shall also rlestroy others; 1 am the 
Isvara, I (alone) am the enjoyer; I am perfect, powerful 
and happy; (15) I am wealthy, born in a good family; 
who other is there like me? I will perform sacri6ces; 
I will give in charity, 1 will enjoy myself”. Being misguided, 
as a result of Ignorance, as described in these words; 
.(16) being mis-directed by all sorts of ideas, being entangled 
in the cob-webs of mental confusion, and steeped in the 
enjoyment of the objects of sense, these (demoniac persons) 
fall into a filthy hell! (17) (Who are) Self-praisers, who 
behave over-bearingly, and who are full of the pride of 
wealth and dignity, these (demoniac persons), abandon 
Sastric admonitions, and hypocritically perform only nominal 



1156 


GiTA-RAHASYA Oft KARMA-YOGA 


snt^^svTRiTT^; II Ic: u 
riM^ •TTPWT^ I 



^f5T5 II \\ II 


?TT^mTWT^r ^5*TrfT ^JTR I 

jTiw^t^ ?n7‘r?TW JTm^ n *!o n 


5(t JTT^fWIrlTSf- I 

^■KRcT?JT ^m^5n%rT?5nT ??r^ II II 

^dN^tRi <mt^%%ni5TT*-1 

3?r^Tf?nriT^t ir?T^?Tffr ^rrirr w »Tf^»? n n 

sacrifice!:. (IS) Who, being bloated up liy egoism, power, 
pride, dcs re. and anger, hate Me (the Par;imeivara), Who am 
in their bodv as also in the bodies of others; ( and who are) 
maligners, 191 ( these ) haters, who commit unholy Actions, 
and (these ' cruel, and lowest of men, arc always thrown 
by Me into demoniiic (that is, sinful) births in this worldly 
life. (20 i O Kiuinte 3 'a! these foolish persons, thus taking 
birth in demoniiic wombs, never come to me, and ultimately 
reach the lowest of low conditions. 


[The Blessed Lord has so far do.scribed demoniac persons 
and the stiite they reach. HE now explains how one can 
escape from it—] 

(21 ) f he gate-w!iy of hell is of three folds, namely, 
Desire, Anger and Avarice ; and it is destructive of one's 
Self; therefore, these three should be given up. (22) O 
Kaunteya ! when a man has escaped from these tamodvata-s 
(that is, doors of darkness—Trans.), he begins to act in a 
way whici. is beneficial to himself, !ind nltimiitely reaches 
the highest state. 

[ It is clear that when the throe gates of hell are escaped 
from, a good state must be obtained. Hot, it has not so 
far been stated by what kind of conduct this can be done. 
Therefore, the Blessed Lord now explains what that path 


is—I 



GlTA,TEANSLATION& COMMENTARY, OH. XVI 1157 

ihiTistiKd; i 

^ ^ 5T ^ ST TO srrasi u n 

TOTT=5?7T^ snrraT ^ ^raUi4=’M5n%^ ^ 

^TTf^ TjTHSif^HrrTfnF; ^ n it 

-jqfsr^ WJ^rrsif 

t2ngT:^‘tTi‘|ifTm4'nfRm ^r^rs>;qni: u « 

'23) (He) who has given up Sastric directions, and begun to 
do what he likes, docs not attain Perfection ; nor does he 
reach an excellent state. (24) • lasmat’ (that is, therefore— 
Trans.), in order to decide the " karynkarya-vyavasthitl", 
'that is, what ought to be done and whrt ought not 
to be done), you must accept the Scriptures (Sastras) 
as authoritative; and after finding out wlait has been 
directed by the Scriptures, it is proper that 5 ou should act 
accordingly. 

[The word ' karyakarija-vyamii^lhitl' used in this stanza 
clearly shows that the Gitft luus been told, keeping before the 
mind the idea of Ethics; and it lias been shown clearly in 
the Gitft-Rahasya (pp. 66 to 69) that this is Ici own as the 
Karma-Yoga-Sastra, ] 

Thus ends the sixteenth chapter entitled Daivasura- 
Sampad-Vibhaga Yoga, in the dialogue betwvien ^rl Krsna 
raid Arjuna, on the Yoga included in the Science of the 
Brahman (tliat is on the Karma-Yoga) in the Upanisad sung 
I that is, told) by the Blessed Lord. 





^ iJSfFcT %<'S«<i|rc(rii* • 

^r fw g ^ ^Goi ?:tT<4f t iC i II \ II 

CHAPTER XYII. 

[ When a description has thus been made of persons, who 
maintain ^and protect the world by following the Karma- 
Yoga-Sastra, as also of those, who, on the other hand, 
destroy the world, the question why these differences arise 
between men and men, naturally springs up. The ordinary 
answer to that question, namely, “prakrfya niyatah smya" 
that is, “that is according to everybody’s nature”, has 
been given in Chapter VII above (7.20). But, as a full 
exposition about the throe constituents namely, sattm, 
rajas, and tarrias, has not been made in that chapter, it was 
not possible to give there a detailed explanation of these 
differences, which arise from Prakrti. Therefore, these 
three constituents have been described in Chapter XIV; 
and after explaining in this Chapter how diverse kinds of 
faith etc., arise on account of these constituents, the entire 
subject-matter of Jnana and Vijfiana has been concluded 
in this chapter. In the same way, the reason for the 
differences in the Path of Devotion, mentioned in the 
Chapter IX (see 9.23 and 24), becomes clear by the 
explanation given in this chapter. Arjuna first asks— 

Ariuna said:—(1) O Krsna! those who, notwithstanding 
that they are filled with Faith, yet perform sacrifice witliout 
observing the Scriptural mctliods, what should their ‘ tiislha' 
(that is, mental condition) be supposed to be f Is it 
sattvika, or rajasa, or tamasa ? 

[This is the doubt raised by Arjuna on the admonition 
given at the end of the last chapter that Scriptural methods 
should be followed. It sometimes happens that even 
having faith in the Scriptures, a man commits mistakes 
as a result of ignorance. For instance, instead of 



GITA, TRANSLATION&COMMENTARY, C't:. XVII 1159 


m i 

TTin^ ^ erf ^ u ^ i> 

^Tr^gW w:?! I 

^T^fmrftsrf ^r. II '* n 

worshipping tlie All-pervading raramesvara, is has been 
enjoined h.\' the Sastras, he may run a ter deities 
(Gl. 9. '‘1), And the (luestion of Arjuna is, \;hat is the 
' lust ha' jr state, or mental condition of such a person 
This iiiiestion does not relate to persons, who despise the 
Sastras and religion for wnant of faith in them, that is, to 
demoniac persons. Novertheles,s, wherever there is occasion, 
the Actions .>f these people also have been (.escrihed in 
this Chapter \ 

The Blessed Lord said:—(2) I'liis faith of living beings 
is natural'V of tlircc kinds, satlvika, rajasu, and ivnasa. Hear 
(how) that ( is so j. (3; riio faith of e^Cl■y person, 
O Bliarata ! conforms to his ‘ .uillva’ ( lliat is, to his inherent 
nature ). Man is imbued with faitli. In win tever matter 
(he puts) his faith, so is he (formed). 

[The word ‘/ta/tra’ in stanza means ‘nal.u’al tempera¬ 
ment’, ‘Reason’ or ‘conscience’. This word nal/va' has 
been used in that semse in the Kathopanisad (IZatha. 6. 7); 
and in the Samkarahhasya on the 'Vedanta-Satras also, the 
term ‘ S'lttm-kselrajila’ has been used in steed of/r.sv/ra- 
ksdnijfia ' (Ve.-Sn, Ram. Bha. 1. 3. 13). In shoit, the word 
' svahhara' in stanzii 3, and the word ' mltva' in stanza 3 are 
synonymous; because, tho doctrine that nature is nothing 
hut Prakrti, and that Reason, and later on. Conscience, 
spring from I’rakrti, is accepted both in Vedanta and in 
Sathkhya philosophy. Tho principle, “in whatever matter 
(he puts) his faith, so is he (formed)" is only a repetition of 
of the theories, ‘‘those who worship deitieh, go to tlie 
deities" etc,, which have appeared before (Gi. 7. ‘30, ‘33; 9. ‘35); 
and I have discussed this subject in Chapter XIIF of the 
Gita-Rahasyu (see Gita. Ra. pp. 589 to 598). When it is 

*■ This ought to Ire st!ii)/,», 3 and not stanza 2—Trans. 




1160 


GiTA-RAHASYA OR KARMA-YOGA 


2r5R-d rrnmr ^rt- h 8 n 

■ii.lmittod that ov(.Ty porson reaps a reward according to 
his desires, and tliat having or not having a particular 
inclination or dosin! depends on his I’rakrti (that is, nature), 
the (luestion, how this nature should he improved, naturally 
arises, Tlie answer to this (piestion is: as the Atman 
(Self) is independent, tliis bodily temperament can 
gradually he changed by practice and by renunciation; 
and this Subject has been discussed in Chapter X of 
the Gita-Ilahasya, to which the reader is referred, 
(see pp. 1583 hi 390). All that has to he considered for the 
moment is why and how these differeitces in faith arise. 
Therefore, after having stated that the faith changes 
according to a man's nature, the Blessed Cord now explains 
(i) what three kinds of faitti are to be found in different men 
as a result of Prakrti itself being composed of the three 
constituents w/Z/cci, rajan and («;/<«», and (ii) what the results 
of this difference are. 1 

(4) Persons, who are 'sallviku', that is, in whom ttie i-nfAn 
(benevolent) eonstituent predominates, sacrifice to the 
deities; the rd/n.svj (]'aSsionatc), to gnomes (jrn/isn-s ) and to 
demons ( rS/'.sa.vu-s ); and other remaining tamnsa (ignorant 
persons) offer sacrifice to dead hoilics and gliosts ( Ohala-s i. 

[TheBles.sod Lord has now explained the three clas.ses 
into which men having faith in tl)e Sastras fall as a result 
if the difference of tiieir Prakrti, and He has also explained 
t heir characteristic.s. FIE now describe.s the class of the 
lustful and hyi)ocritical persons, who are such, as a result 
if not having faitli ill the Sastras. It is clear that these 
persons are not silltdlM ; hut one cannot on that account 
.simply call them ‘/u wu.sv/’; because, although their actions 
are contrary to the Sastras, yet they have a tendency to 
fierform these Actions ; and, tendency to Action is a feature 
if the /7/ju,s‘ constituent. In short, the adjectives sattrihi, 
'•(Ijusii, or lainasu cannot be simply applied to such people. 
That is why men are divided into the two classes ‘ ikn'n ’ 



GITA, TRANSLATION& COMM ENTARY, CB. XVII 1161 



% rPTt I 


^2T?rf; »JfrBrnTfl%rT^. I 

irr %2rRcf;^dT^'4 cTn?5n5Tjr^?:f^?TR( II 5 u 

3TT^TT^??nq ^?T l4R4r *T5^rT TW. I 


?TfRrTq^?T!ijT ^qr irffw ^<511 ^ 11 


(godlike) and ‘asiiri' ((leinoniac) ; and these 'a il-tuiiidod 
persons are piut into tlio " dsitri ’ (dass ; the san e idea has 
been conveyed in the two tollowing stanzas. J 
I 5) But, those persons wdio, bcin.'t inibu:-d witit hppoorisy and 
egoism, perform intense austerities contrary tc the Sastras, 
on the strength of Desire iuu! Attachment, ((>) and oppress 
not only the group of tire live ]>rimordial chmeats etc., 
in their body, but also Mo, Who stituratc that body, 
such uudiscrituinaling (])crson3 ) may be n derstood to 
possess a dmuoniac temperament. 

[All the (luostions of Arjnna have now been ansvered,. Tlu! 
laith of dilf.u'ent par.^'oiis may be miHtHkn, rajnya or tUnumi 
according to their nature ; and tnero l)oing a consequent 
differeiua^ in their A(;tion.s, they will attain various goals 
according to tlieir respective' A.ctions ; but, 1'rom that alone 
it canncjt, lu< saiil that a j)arti(ndar irorsun will fall into 
the doinoiiiac chess. It is tlie duty of e\e yhody to 
gradually improve Ids nature hy making use o Ereedom 
of Will ( illjiiJisiiUtai'nlrtid ) and aiding accordiiig To tlU’ 
Scriptures { sds/ni-a). These stai)'/,a.s mean tint Those, 
wlio, instead of doing so, prid.i tlieins.ilves on f ioir uwu evil 
inherent, nature, and Hunt tlu; Sastras are to be called 
■ d.sv/y; ’ (denioniaof. 'L’lie Blesst'd Borti now i x thuns tlic 
difterc'iit kinds ot food (lilumt), .saciiliee ii/djun.) refigiom 
uu.sterity ( lnihts) and cliaritalde gifts ( dttna ), wh oh are the 
result ot the .s'a//y«,/YYyh.s-and/mac/.'; constituent.'-' ft l,'’rakrti, 
just as there are different kind.s of ihuth; and he .il ;,) 
explains ivow in cimsequeiicu of diver.sity in nat lire, there 
is ahso diversity in Actions—| 

,7) Now, the food whicli each person likes is : Iso tiwiiiod 
into three classes; and tlie same is the case witli S;),crific:;, 



1162 


GITA-RAHASYA OR KARMA-YOGA 


3T11RT:‘ 


t: t 

» C II 

sTTiiTr Tr3T^R%r ii % n 

^T^3R II ?0 II 


Austerity and Knowledge. I will explain to you this 
difference, to which listen. (8) The food hked by a sMvika 
person is such as increases life, the sattvika temperament, 
strength, health, happiness, and love; it is savoury, viscous, 
and such as will be absorbed into the body, and will remain 
in it for a long time, and is cnjo 3 mblc to the mind. (9) The 
food liked by the yajasa persons is ‘ katu' (that is, hot), 
pungent, saltish, very warm, irritating, dry, exciting, and 
such as creates pain, lamentation, and disease. 

[In Sanskrit ‘ katu ' means ‘burning’; and 'Hkta’ means 
‘bitter’; and accordingly, in Sanskrit medical treatises, 
mustard is described as ‘ katu \ and lemon or lime as tikta 
(See Vagbhata-Sutra, Oh. 10). The words 'kadu’ and 
'tikhat' in the Marathi language are corruptions of the 
words ‘ A:a<M ’ and ‘ Wc/a ’ in Sanskrit; but the meanings of 
those two words in the Marathi language have got 
interchanged. The Sanskrit and Marathi meanings of the 
word ‘ aparokf-a ’ are similarly interchanged; and this thing 
is important from the point of view of etymology. ] 

(10) A tdmasa person likes food, which has remained 
standing, (that is, which has become cold), is tasteless, 
bad-smelling, which has become stale (for one day), has 
been tasted ( by other people), and is also impure. 

[Not only does the sattvika person like sattvika food; the 
rdjasa person, rajasa food; and the farmsa person, tamasa 
food; but conversely, by eating sattvika food, the inherent 
nature of a person also gradually becomes pure or sattvika. 
as has been stated in the Upanisads: cf, " aharamddhau 
mttva iuddhih” (Chan. 7. 26. 2). Because, asthe;Mind and 




GiTA, TRANSLATION & COMMENTARY, OH. XVII 1163 


ipT ^ ii V: 

3Tfira^ g g«TT?JiTfq %r i 

rf f%I% CM-HH " •' 

*l»5lCigJT?fiiT0Tg I 

cTHT^ II II 



the Reason are only evohites of Prakrti, if the food is 
sUlh’ikd, the inherent nature also becomes sa/tvikti in 
consequence. These are the different kinds of Tood. The 
Blessed Lord now explains how there are fit-ee different 
kinds of sacrifices. ] 

(11) The Sacrifice performed witliout entertaining any 
desire for the fruit, and looking upon the performance of 
Sacrifice as ti duty, and with ;i peaceful mind, an 1 accoriiing to 
the Sastric rites, is salivika; (12 ) hut the Sacriiicc performed 
with a desire for fruit, or only hypocritictilly (that is, for 
making tin exhibition of one’s riches ), kno\v' that, such 
a sacrifice O Bharata-srestha! is ti sacrifice ; (13) and, 
the Sacrifice performed without Scriptural cerenmny, without 
the sacriiicc of food, without the recitatioi of hymns 
witliout .giving cliaritable gifts, and without faith, such 
a sacrifice is tdmasa. 


[Just as there are throe kinds of food and sacrifice, so 
also are there three kinds of austerities. But ausierities have 
first been divided into ‘ kdi/iku’ (bodily), 'vaeika (vocal), and 
' /iiunaftika’ (mental); and tlien tlie three sub-divisions of 
each of those as a result of tho .‘fd/ti’ii, rajan and tdinas con¬ 
stituents have been explained. The word ' tiipa’ :n this place 
is not to 1)0 taken in the narrow moaning of ‘ ^oing into a 
forest and mortifying the l)ody aixording to the Patanjala- 
Yoga’, hut means ‘ Yajna, Yaga, study of the V'edas, or 
whatever anybody’s duty may he according to that one of 
the four classes to which ho belongs ; e. (j. figl ting for the 
Ksatri,va, trade for tho Vaisya, etc., which is tlie austerily 
(tapa) or penance for that particular person’. Ttiis com¬ 
prehensive meaning of the word ‘ tn/M ' (religious austerities 


1164 


gIta-rahasya or karma-yoga 


§§ #^iTT^cr»3[ i 

^ cTT II n 

3T5f iT^ cn^?T fsr^f^ ^ I 

% ^TTSPi riq 1^% II II 

IT5T:^T^TT- RMHIrUf^JTIT^ 1 

*TRHg^ II II 

or I’enanue), piven by Miuiii (Maiiu. 11. :23())is intended 
in the followinp; stan/.as of the Gita. J 

(14) Worshipping deities and Rrahmins, as also tliose 
who arc learned; cleanliness, straight-forwardness, celibacy, 
andharinlcssness is calletl ‘ sanra' ( that is, kayika or boilily ) 
permuce. (15) Speech, wliich does not cause pdn (to the 
mind), which is true, likeable, and bcneliciid and also, 
the practice of ' .wadliynya’ (that is, one’s own duties) 
is called ‘ vmgnuiya' ( vddka or vocal) penance. (16) Keeping 
one’s mind pleased, gentleness, and maintaining ‘maund' 
(that is, silence, like a muni), mental control, and pure 
feelings is called ' mdimsa' { mental ) penance. 

I The words, satijii, pritjn, and hitn uscai in stanza 15 seem 
to refer to the dictum of Mann : “ .'ia/i/iim hraydt priyani 
bruijan nn hruijnt apriijdin I priyain ra namtain 

bru.ydil t'su dhnrtnnh sniiiilarKik » ” (Mann. 4. 138), that is, 

“ one should speak what is true ; ono should speak what is 
sweet; one should not apeak what is true, if it is not 
sweet; ' this is tlu; ancient rolitriun ”. But Vidura ha.s 
told Duryodhaua in the Mahabharata itself (Sabha. 63. 17) 
that “ apriya-'tya ca piithyiisya vakid srobi hi diirbibluih " 
(that is, “ of what is disagreeable and benoficial, the speaker 
as also the h(!arer arc hard to find ”—Tran.s.). Each of the 

* The words “ priyaih ca ndnrtath irnyat ” in the above ipiotatiou, 
whieh mean: “nor what is awoet, if it ia false" are not 
included in the author's Marathi translation of the Sanskrit 
quotation—Trans. 



QlTA, TRANSLATION & COMMENTARY, CH. XVII1165 

3T q ;^T^ f |ifiT§%i \\\^\\ 

dMi %q i 
qrrE ^dosq'^q*? w Xc ii 
jjgrn^'mdTdt q^ qt^qi f%q^ qq: 1 
qT^Tr^5n'4 qr drinros^Tifni »\% \\ 

§§ qmsqmfd q^Td ^^gqqnTTor i 

^ ^ qtq d d^ ^f^q% ^gdq n ?o ii 

q^ q?iq^TTT'4 q565gf^q qr 5 d: I 

^d dr q%'|r5 d^Td TTd^ ^^dd W H 

three divisions of Penance, namely, kayika, vucika and 
inanasika falls int(i the following snb-divisions- ] 

(17) (f each of thosc5 three kinds of reli|'ioas austerities 
i or penance ) is pcrlonncd without entertaining t lie Desire for 
Fruit, and with exceiicni. Devotion, and with a mind steeped 
in Yoga, it is called sattvUen; (1>) and when tie austerities 
are performed with the intention that one should be 
appreciated, or held in dignity, or worshipp( d, or hypo¬ 
critically, then those unsleady and ileeting austerities are 
here (that is, in the Scriptures ) known as rUjasi '.; (1 9) those 
austerities, which, being self-injurious, are performed out 
of a foolish persistence, or with t lie idea of harming otliers 
[by incantations for propitiation ( jnra/ia ), or causing death 
{ marnna) etc.], arc called tdmasa. 

[Having thus descrihod tlio tlivisioiis of I enance, the. 
Blessed Lord now explains tlie throe divisions o' charitable 
gifts (dana). J 

(20) That gift, which is made with the cniviction that 
it is one's duty to make the gift, after coiisidering (the 
propriety of ) the place, tlic time, and the ( rece ving) person, 
.lud to a oerson, who has not obliged tire g ver, is called 
sdUvika; (21) but the gift, which is made unwillingly, as a re¬ 
turn for some obligation (received), or with the idea of getting; 



1166 


GITA-RAHASYA on KARMA-YOGA 


aTOffjcm^rfrm ii u 

some reward for it in future, is called ' rajasa '; (22) and that 
gift, which is iiiaclc at an improper place, or at an improper 
time, or to an improper person, uuappreciatingly, or 
disrespectfully is called tamasci. 

[The three divisions into which Knowledge, Action, Do¬ 
ers, Reason, I’erseverance, and Happiness fall, similar to the 
divisions of food, sacrifice, penance, and gifts, are explained 
in the next chapter (Gl. 18. 20'39). 'fhe differentiation 
between the constituents given in this chapter is here over, 
ff’he Blessed Lord now refers to the definition of the 
Brahman (the ); and proves the superiority 

and adoptability of mi/tnika A(;tion mentioned above. 
Because, a doubt is likely to bo raised to the exposition 
made above, that, whether an Action is sUItvika, rajafia, 
or tuiiKiSd, it is still faulty and pain-causing; that, 
therefore, it is not possible to attain to the Brahman, unless 
all these Actions are given up; and that, if this is true, 
there is no sense in pointing out the difference, that a 
particular act is .srff/r/A-n, and a partiemiar act riljdsii. 'I’he 
answer of the Gila to this objo(dion is that those divisions 
of Action into tutltn'ka, nijdxd, and hinidSd are not 
inconsistent with the J’arabrahinan. 'Pile canon (mihkalpd), 
which defines the Bralnnaii, includes nOttrikd Aedions or 
good Actions; and therefore, it is proved l)eyond doubt that 
these Actions are not metaphysically escbewable {see 
(ii. lia. p 338). All the Knowledge acejnirod by man 
regarding the nature of tlic Farabrahman is ccnicentrated 
in the definition composed of the three words “Om, 'J'at, Sat”. 
Out of these ‘Om’ is the (ikmni-hmliiium, and that has been 
dosciribed in different ways in different Upanisads 
(Prasna. 5; Kalha. 2. 15-17; Tai, 1. 8; Chan. i. 1; Maitryu. 
6,3,4; Mapdukya, 1. 12). And as this Brahman in the 
form of a consonant ( niniukmm-r'upi ) was the only thing 
in existence at the comniencoment of the universe, all. 
Action (or ritual) commences with that letter. ‘ Tat ’ =‘that’ 



GiTA, TRANSLATION &COMMENTARY, C]I. XVII 1167 


gmoTT^ ?jirra h h 

means ‘ something heyond the ordinary Action ’. that is to 
say, the mttvika Action performed desirelessly, i.nd having 
given up the Hope of Fruit; and ‘Sat’ means pore Actions, 
performed according to Scriptural directions, notwith¬ 
standing that they may have been performed with a Hope 
for Fruit. Such is the meaning of this canon;; and if this 
meaning is accepted, not only sutimica Actions, performed 
with a dcsireless frame of mind, but also go(’d Actions 
performed according to Scriptural directions an included 
in the ordinary and commonly accepted definitim of the 
Parabrahman, Therefore, it is wrong to say' that these 
Actions are eschewable. Besides the 'fat' end 'sat' 
Actions, there remain the ‘nv//’ Actions, that is, evil 
Actions. But, as such Actions are harmf\il both in this 
life and the next, they are not included in the definition, 
as has been stated in the last stan'/a. The Blessed Lord 
says— ] 

(23) Tlu; Parabrahtniiii is defined (in the Scriptures) in 
three ways, as ‘'Om-Tat-Sat”. By this (very Flefinition* 
were tlic Brahmins, the Vedas, and tlie Sacrifices created 
formerly. 

(It has been stated before that in the beginning of the 
world, the first Brahmin in the form of Brahmadtva, the 
gods, and Yajnas were first created ((H. 3. 10). But, the 
form of that Parahrahman, from which all this has been 
created, is contained in the three words ‘Om’, ‘ Tat ’ and 
‘Sat’. Therefore, this stanza means that the canon 
‘ Om-Tat-Sat ’ is the root of tho entire nniverse. The Blessed 
Lord now gives the respective connotations of the three 
words’ ‘Om’, ‘Tat’, and ‘Sat’in this canon, fre m the 
Karma-Ycigic point of view—] 

• It is difficult to nnderstaud how anything can be c -eated by 
a definition (nirdda), Sridhara explains the word ‘ this ’ i.s moan¬ 
ing ‘ Parahrahman—Trans. 





1168 


GiTi-RAHASYA OR KARMA-YOGA 


^T?J?T 51gl4[f?«frR l> ^8 » 

^ ^T^rcTT-fW'* > 

?R'i%^iiff RRvir. R^Rrr%w n » 

^ ^RRrfrtrg^ I 

ST^T# rTOT tTT'^ H H 

?i% rRf% ^ R'-iim*. i 

^*%cr fR'4m ^RfWtvTvfnm u n 

(24) ‘‘lasmat” (that is, ‘since the world starts with this 
canon’), Biahmists ( hrahfut-vadinuli) start their Sacrifice, 
Charity, Penance, and all other Scriptural Actions first 
uttering the word ‘OM’. (25) By using the word ‘TAX’, 

people perform Actions, such as, Sacrifice, Penance, 
Charity etc., without entertaining tlic Hope of Fruit, 
in order to obtain Release. (26) Reality (astitva) and 
saintliness (sadhulva) arc signified by the use of the word 
‘SAX’; and O Partlia ! the word ‘SAl'’ is also applied to 
proper (tliat is, good ) Actions. (27) Fi.xity (that is, having 
an unswerving faitli in Sacrifices, Austerities, and Charity) 
is also known as ‘ SAl' and tlic Action performed for that 
purpose is also known as ‘SAX’. 


[Sacrifices, Austeritie.s, and Cliarity arc the important 
religious Actions; and the Actions performed for this 
purpose have been given the geiKuic name " ydjHUrtha- 
karma’ (Action for the purpose of a Sacrifice) by the 
Mimaihsakas. Though a man may entertain the Hope for 
Fruit in performing these Actions, yet, as that Hope is 
consistent with Morality, these Actions fall into the 
category of ‘ Sat’; and all Desireless Action falls into the 
class of ‘Tat ’ = ‘ that’, that is to say, ‘ that which is beyond 
this’. As both these kinds of Actions are thus included 


* This word ‘ Braliinist ’ has boon coin(!d by me on the analogy 
of ‘ theht ’, ‘ atheist ’ etc.,—Trans. 



GITA, TRANSLATION & COMMENTARY. G]L XVII 1169’ 

§§ ^ ^ rTT^cTH IkT I 

5T ^ ^r?I HI H ®«; II 

in the Rrahina-saiiihalpa “ Om-Tat-Sat ”, wliic i is uttered' 
at the coimiienceiuent of every ritualistic Action, both of 
them must he said to be consistent with the at tainment to 
the Brahman (see Gi. Ra. p. 338). Now there r£ mains only 
the ‘ The Blessed now exj)lains what t le result of 

that Action is - j 

(28) riint oblation, whicli is thrown into tl entire, or that 
(gift), which is given, or that penance, whicli is performed, 
or any whatsoever ( Action ), whicli is done, without faith 
is called 'asal'. O Partha I that (, Action) is not beneficial 
whether after death (in the next life ), or in thii life. 

[ In short, the commtmly accepted canon, i idicative of 
the form of the Brahman, includes all Actioni performed 
with a dcsireless frame of mind, and merely as duties, and 
which are either wdhv'/,v< or arc proper Actiens, or good 
Actions, performed with a para intention, and according to 
Scriptural directions. All other Actions are 1 utile. This 
proves that it is not proper to ask any one to give up 
Action, which is included iu the definition of thf Brahman, 
whicli came into existence whth Brahmadeva (Gi. 3. 10), 
and w'hich no body can escape from. And lhat is why 
the above Karma-Yogic interjiretation of the canon 
‘ Om-Tat-Sat ’ has boon given in this chapter immediately 
after the disquisition on Karma. Because, a n ere descrip¬ 
tion of tlie form of the Brahman has been given before 
in Ghap. Xlll, as also befure tliat chapter. What the 
words ‘ Gni ‘ Tat and ‘ Sat ’ must have origii tally meant 
has been explained at the end of Chapter IX of the Gita- 
Rahasya (p. 338). The description of the Brahman as 
“ Sacoidanaiida” is now in vogue. But, as tlie definition 
of Brahman as ‘ Om-Tat-Sat ’ has been taken h 3re, instead 
of the dcHiiitioii ‘ Saccidananda ’, it is possible ;o draw an 
inference that the definition of the Brahman as “Sacci¬ 
dananda ”, as a generally accepted definition, must have 
come into vogue after the date of the Gita. ] 



1170 


GITA-RAHASYA OR KARMA-YOGA 


^ftifron- 

«r5i3nTf^»i?fnfRm n n 


Thus ends the seventeenth chapter entitled Sraddha- 
TRAYA-ViBHAGA YoGA in the dialogue between Sri Krsna 
and Arjuna on the Yoga included in the Science of the 
Brahman (that is, on the Karma-Yoga) in the Upanisad 
:8ung, (that is, told) by the Blessed Lord. 





CHAPTER XVIII. 

[The eighteenth chapter is the summary c f the entire 
Gita-science. I shall, therefore, make a review (literally, 
‘casta lion-glance’) of all that has been slated so far 
(for greater details, see Chapter XIV of the Glia-Rahasya). 
It is clear from Chapter ONE that the Gl ,a has been 
told in order to induce Arjuna to do his own dut/, when he 
was on the point of giving up the warfare, which was his 
lot according to his own-status {smdharrna), and of starting 
to beg. Arjuna was filled with the doubt that if he 
performed such evil actions as killing his ow i preceptors 
etc., his Self would not he henefittod. Therefore, in the 
beginning of Chapter TWO are mentioned the two ways of 
living one’s life, which are accepted by Jfianins (i. e., 
Sages); namely, Samkhya {sa/imi/am or Renunciation), and 
Karma-Yoga (Yoga); and the ultimate conclusion has been 
arrived at, that though both these paths are equally produc¬ 
tive of Release, yet the path of Karma-Yoga is the superior 
of the two (Gi. 5. 3). According to the Path of Karma-Yoga, 
out of these two, the Reason is supposed to be superior ; if 
the Reason is steady and equable. Karma (Action) does not 
prejudicially affect anybody; no one has esci ped Karma, 
and no one should give up Karma; it is quite enough if one 
gives up the Hope of Fruit; it is necessary to perform 
Karma at any rate for universal welfare, if i ot, for one’s 
self; if one’s Reason is pure, Jfiana does not conflict with 
Karma; and if one considers tradition, then Janaka and 
others behaved in the same way. These and other logical 
arguments liave been advanced from Chapter THREE to 
Chapter IflVE. The next subject-matter is he w to acquire 
this Equability of Reason, which is necessary for making 
Karma-Yoga successful, and how one ultimately attains 
Release, while following the Path of Karnii-Yoga. In 
order to acquire this Equability of Reason, one must 
acquire sense-control (indrii/a-ni(jraha), and thereby fully 
realise that there is only one Paramesvara pervading the 



1172 


GITA-RAHASYA OR KARMA-YOGA 


entire creation ; there is no other way. Out of these, sense- 
control has been dealt with in Chapter SIX; and from 
Chapter VII to Chapter XVII, is given the explanation of 
(i) how the Knowledge of the Pararnesvara is acfpxired 
while practising the Karina-Yoga, aiid (ii) what that 
Knowledge is. Out of these, Chapter SKVEN and 
Chapter EIGHT deal with the Spiritual and the Empirical 
Knowledge (jnana-vijhdim) of (i) the Mutable and the 
Immutable and (ii) the Perceptible and the Imperceptible ; 
and Chapters NIRE to TWELVE deal with the doctrine' 
that though the Imperceptible form of the Pararnesvara is 
superior to the Perceptible form, yet, worshipping the 
Perceptible, witlmut losing sight of the fact that there is 
only one Pararnesvara, is a path which is easy for 
everybody, because it is a matter which is capable of 
practical realisation. Thou in Chapter THIR'I'EEN, the 
theory of the Body and the Atman {ki^Pira-kseh'ajna-'mcxira)f 
has l)een explained by saying that, that which Ls known as 
the '’avuaktd' (Imperceptible) in the Consideration of the 
Mutable and the Immutable, is, indeed, the Atman within 
the body of a man ; and thereafter, there has been a detailed 
consideration from Chapter FOURTEEN to Chapter 
SEVENTEEN of the way in which persons of diverse 
natures in the world, as also the other diversified expansion 
of the world, came into existence, as a re.sult of the consti¬ 
tuents of Prakrti—which subject-matter, is really an off¬ 
shoot of the Consideration of the Mutable and the 
Immutable; and in this way, the exposition of Spiritual 
and Empirical Knowledge has been completed. But every¬ 
where, the only advice given to Arjuna is that he .should 
perform Action; and the definite doctrine has been enun¬ 
ciated, that the Karma-Yogic way of living one’s life, 
namely, the path of “worshipping the Pararnesvara, and 
doing all Actions with a pure mind, according to one’s 
status, till death, and with the idea of dedicating every¬ 
thing to the Pararnesvara” is, indeed the host path of life. 
When, in this way, the Karma-Yoga, based on Knowledge, 
and in which Devotion is the supreme factor, has been 
explained in all its bearings, that very religion has. 




GiTA, TRANSLATION & COMMENTARY, C H. XVIII1173 


3T#T 35^1^ I 

been Btiniraarisod in Chapter KIGHTEEN ; and Arjuna 
has been induced to light of his own free will. In this path, 
which has been pronounced to be the l)est 0 ; all by the 
Gita, Arjuna has not been advised to take up the fourth 
state of life or Renunciation; but, it has been stated 
that the man, who lives according to this path of 
life is a ' mtija-miimijrisin' (perpetual asceii(), (Gi. 5, 3). 
Therefc.re, the next question of Arjuna is whether the 
principle of (i) taking sometime or other to the fourth 
state of life, namely, the state of an ascedc, and (ii) 
literally abandoning all kinds of Action, i f or is not 
included in the Rath of Earimi-Yoga; ami if not, then, 
what the meaning of the two words ‘ Hfiinny'Cmi ’ and ‘ li/iioa’ 
is ( see Cita-Rahasya pp, 131 to 487. J 

Arjuna said ;—(1) O Migbty-iirmed Bhsikesa ! the 
principle of Renunciation (samnyasa), and O Kesidaityani- 
sudana ! tlie principle of Abiimlonment {tyayu), 1 wish to 
know these severally. 

[This question has not been asked with t ie intention of 
merely knowing tlie dictionary meanings if the words 
‘ mihni/ilm ’and 'ti/nfia', or the difference between them. 
The root-iu(3aning of l)oth is " to give up”;: end it is not 
that Arjuna did not know this. Hut, the Llessed Lord 
has nowhere advised tho giving up of Action ; ind wherever 
Renunciation has been dealt with in the 4th 5th, or (Ith 
chapters (4. 41; 5. 13; (>. 1), or in other places. He has 
directed thfit one should only make a ‘ li/ugn' (abandon- 
nieiit) of the Hope of Emit (Gi. 12. II), and should make 
the ’ ' of, that is, * dedicate all .4c,tions to the 

Raramesvara, (3. 30; 12. B); whereas, if one i onsiders the 
Upanisads, one comes acro.SB statements dercribing the 
Path of Renunciation, which are indicaiive of the 
Abandonment of Action, such a.s, “/wi karnianl na prajaya 





J174 


GlTA-RAHASYA OR KARMA-YOGA 


dhaneni tylKjen dike amrfdtram druisuh ”, that is, “ many 
persons have obtained Release by abandoning, or making 
a literal ‘ ///dr/a ’ of all Actions ” (Kai. 1. 2 ; Narayana 12. 

3); or, “ reddnta-mjnuna .tmu&cilurthih I sudtuyusayogad 
yataynh suddhalatvuhu ”, that is, “ yatinn (ascetics), who have 
become piwre by the Yoga of ‘ minnyUsa, in the shape of the 
Abandonment of all Actions ” (Mundaka. 3. 3. 6); or, 

‘ kim prajaya karisydmah ” that is, “ what have we got to do 
with sons, grandsons, or other progeny ” (Br. 4. 4. 22). It 
is quite clear that Arjuna had seen that the Blessed 1 iOrd 
was using the two words ‘ samnyusa ’ and ‘ tydyn ’ in some 
Other meaning, instead of applying them to the state of 
Renunciation, in the shape of the Abandonment of Action, 
out of the four states of human life, prescribed by the 
Smrli texts, and ho has asked this question in order to clear 
up that point. See the detailed elucidation of this subject- 
matter, which has boon made by me in Chapter XI (pp. 481 
to 487) of the Glta-Rahasya.) 

The Blessed Lord said :— ■(2) Making a ‘nycisa (that is, 
giving up) of (all whatsoever) Desire-prompted Aetions, is 
known by wise people as ‘Samnyasa’; (and) making an 
Abandonment of the Fruit of all Actions is known bv the 
learned as ‘Tyaga’. 

[This verse clearly explains what is meant by the words 
‘ samnyusa ’ and ‘ tyuga ’ according to the Path of Karma- 
Yoga. But, as this opinion was not acceptable to the 
commentators, who belonged to the Path of Renunciation, 
they have stretched the meaning of this stanza to a 
considerable extent, in this stanza, the word ‘ kdmya ’ 
appears in the very beginning. Therefore, these 
commentators say, that the divisions of Actions into nifya,^ 

* For defiiiitionB oi‘mlya’, etc., see Vol. 1, p. 74, «t my. — 
-Translator. 





GlTA, TRANSLATION & COMMENTARY, CIC. XVIII1175 


naimittika, kamija, and nimidfui, according to tie Mimarnsa 
school are indicated here; and that according 1o the advice 
of the Blessed Lord, only ‘ kdmi/a ’ (desire-prompted) 
“Actions should be given up”. But, the fol owers of the 
Path of Renunciation have to declare that the ‘ 7iitya ’ and 
' miimittika ’ Actions have also beiui included in the ‘ kuimja ’ 
Actions. Even doing so, the statement in the second 
half of the, stanza that the Hopt? of Emit shoi Id be given 
up, and that Actions should not bo given up, (see stanza 6, 
later on) does not become consistent with their mode of 
life, 'riiercd'ore, these commentators have sadsfied them¬ 
selves by passing a remark, on their own autho dty, that the 
Blessed Lord has here only showered empty praise on the 
Path of Karma-Yoga ; and that Ilis real intention was that 
all Actions should be given up. It is quite clear that this 
stanza cannot be satisfactorily explained from the doctrin¬ 
al point; '.vf view of the Hchool of Renunciation or other 
schools. It can be rightly interpreted o:nlj so as to 
support the Karma-Yoga, that is to say, so as to support 
the principle enunciated on numerous occasions in the 
Gita, that one must continue to p(!Tform Actioi s, till death, 
giving up the Hope of Emit; and such a meaning indeed, 
is the straight and plain meaning. One must bear in 
mind, in the first place, that the word ‘ A-dn i/n ’ does not 
indicate the division of Actions into nihia, 'luunniliku, 
kUn/yn and vMildhn, made by the Mimarnsa school. 
According to the doctrine of Karma-Yoga, all Actions 
fall into only two divisions, namely, ' kam’/a’ that is, 

‘ performed with Hope of Fruit ’ and ‘ ninkm ui ', that is, 
‘performed giving up the IloiX! of Fruit’; and these two 
are resi)octivoly called “ pravrl/a Karma”, end “ nivrtta 
Karma ’ in the Manu-Smrti (See Manu. 12 88 and 89). 
WhetlKir the Actions are Daily (nifyu), or Occasional 
in.aiiiullika) or Bodily (/cm///c«), or Vocal (vac/,A:,;), or Mental 
(inUtiufiikd) or any other kind, according to the livision into 
sattmka. etc., they must fall into one of the two divisions, 

‘ kurnya ’ (Dssire-proinpted) and ‘ niskama ' (Desireless); 
because, besides the two divisions, (i) ‘ having /coma’, that 
is, Hope of Fruit, and (ii) ‘not having led/ m’, no third. 



1176 


GITA-RAHA8YA OK KARMA-YOGA 


division is possible from tho point of view of kami (‘ Hope 
of Fruit ’). If a particular Action is done for a particular 
purpose, having regard to ttie purpose for which it. is 
prescribed by the Sastras, o.g., the ‘ putredi ' sacrifice for 
obtaining a son, then it l)Gcoines ‘ kanujd ' ; and if the same 
thing is done merely as a matter ot duty, that is to say, 
without entertaining the Hope of Fruit, it becomes 
‘ niiikUina When all Actions are thus divided into 
‘ kainya ' and ‘ niskdnta ' (or ‘ pruiMhi ’ and ‘ idiirlla ’ accord¬ 
ing to the, terminology t)f Maim), the Kanna-Yogiu gives 
up all Actions which are ‘ kumya ’ or inspired by Desire. 
It, therefore, follows tliat even in the Karma-Yoga, it is 
necessary to perform a ' (Renunciation) of all 

'kdtnjjd' (desired-prompted) Actions. Now, let us turn to the 
second out of tho two divisions of Karma, namely, the 
division of ‘ nitikdiiia ’ (desirc'loss) Actions. 11 is true that 
the Gita definitely enjoins tho performance of these 
niskdina Actions on tlie Karma-Yogin; but even in 
them, 0110 has to perform the total ‘ tijdud ’ (abandonment) 
of the .Hope of Kruit (Gi. 6. '1). 'I'liereforc, even tho 
principle oi'tijdfia' remains constant in the Glta-religion. 
In short, in order to impress on the mind of Arjuna that 
the principles of 'mthni/a.'ia' and of ‘fi/di/a’ i) 0 th remain 
constant in Karma-Yoga, the .Blessed land has in this 
stanza given these two definitions, namely, '''samnjdsa’ 
means the total miimyCmi (Renunciation) of kihnya (desire- 
prompted) Action”; and '''lyih/d' means tho lydya, or the 
Abandonment, of Hope of Bruit, in all Desireless Actions 
which are to lie performed”. In an earlier chapter, in showing 
that Saihnyasa ( or Saihkhya ) and Yoga are essentially the 
same, the word ‘ samnyunin (Gl. 5. 3-6 and 6.1,2), and 
later on in this cliapler, the word ‘tyuf/in ', have been defined 
in the same way; and tlio same is the proper meaning in 
the present stanza. The doctrine of tho Smrtis that, unless 
one follows the order of tho Irniluiuicari,, (jrluisiha, vanapixistlui 
and .mr'nnya.'sa states, and “ ultimately takes up the 
'iutii/iydsa state or the fourth state of life, in the shape of 
Renunciation of all Actions, Release is not possible”, is 
not meant here. This clearly proves that even though tho 



GiTA,TRANSLATION feCOMMENTARy, Oil. XVIII1177 


3Tfr?T5TrTqr*^i| 5T r?n^?Tftn% n ^ •' 

T'Vrsm ^ ^ rqrrr I 

r^rmr t| H^qc^rT^i ii S; » 

?I^^5TcTT-^^ ST ?S7T^ cTrj; I 

W ^ST cTT#^ m^TSTTT^ lTsfn%OTT*3[ II H 
^rTTssrrr 3 ^hor ^ 7 mrm ^ 1 
sFTrT^^rrsfW^ ir qT‘4 fsrmfT TTagTtff q ; n 5 1 

Kamia-Y(igln may not take up the saffron-i 10 loured robes 
of an ascetic and al)andon all Actions, yet, since he is 
essentially following th(3 same principles as a sa/hnyasm, 
there is mj conflict between Karma-yoga <ini the Smrti 
texts. The Blessed Lord now summari,sos the dispute about 
Karma between the svipporters of the Baihnyasa tfehool and 
the sapporter.s of the Mlmanvia school, anc gives the 
ultimate deci.sion of the Karma-Yoga-Science in the 
matter—-J 

(3) Some learned men say that as Karma is :'m:lty, it must 
be given up (altogether ); and others say t ;,a Sacrifice, 
Charity, Austerities, and Karina sliould never I c abandoned. 
(4 ) Tlicrolorc, O Bharatasrestha ! listen to My decision on 
tlie question of‘fydiyu’. O Purusasrostha ! is said to 

be of three kinds. (5) Sacrifice, Charity, An Verities, and 
Karma sliould not be abandoned under any circumstances. 
Those (Actions) must be performed. Sacrifice, Charity and 
Austerities arc‘/dt'umi’ ( th.at is, mind-purifiers ), for (even) 
the wise. (6) Therefore, even these Actions (such as, 
Sacrifice, Charity etc.) luust be performed, wi hout Attach¬ 
ment, and having abandoned tlic Fruit (like otlmr desircless 
Actions, and for universal welfare). 'I'his, O Partha, is My 
■ definite (and correct) opinion. 

This is a summary of the doctrine of Karma-Yog.x 
Gimnciatfid before on numerous occasiotis, that the fault 
or the defect of Karma is not in the Karma itself, 
but is in the Hope of Kriiit: and that all Actions 



1178 


GITa-RAHASYA or karma-yoga 


should, therefore, be performed desirelessly, and 
having given up the Hope of Fruit. The Gita does not 
countenance the doctrine of the Sarhnyasa school, that all 
Action is faulty and, therefore, such as ought not to be 
performed (See Gita. 18. 48 and 49). The Gita advocates 
the sanmyasa (Renunciation) of only kamya (desire- 
prompted) Actions. But, from this it would follow that 
since all the ritual and rites laid down by the Scriptures 
are ‘ kamya ' or ‘ based on desire ’ (Gi. 2. 42-44), one must 
necessarily renounce them : and if that is done, the Cycle 
of Yajnas {yajnacakra) will come to an end (Gi, 13. 16), 
and the world will run the risk of being devastated. Then, 
what is to be done ? The Gita answers this question by 
saying that although the Scriptures have prescribed the 
performance of Yajnas, Charity etc. for obtaining heaven, 
it is not that these very Actions cannot be performed desire¬ 
lessly, and for universal welfare, with the idea, that 
performing sacrifices, or giving gifts, or performing austeri¬ 
ties is one’s duty in this life, (See Gi. 17. 11, 17, and 20). 
Therefore, just as other Dosireless Actions are to be 
performed according to one’s status in life, so also should 
Sacrifices, Charity and other Actions be performed, 
giving up the Hope of Fruit, and without Attachment; 
because, such actions are always " pavana”, that is, 
purifiers of the mind, and increase one’s generosity. The 
words “ “ even these”, used in the original 

text moan :—-“ yajua, <lana, and other acts also, in the same 
way as other desireless actions”. When, in this way, these 
Actions are performed, giving up the Hope of Fruit—'Or from 
the devotional point of viow> only with the idea of dedi¬ 
cating them to the Paramosvara—the wheel of the world 
continues to roll; and, as there is no more any Hope of 
B’ruit in the mind of the doer, these Actions do not obstruct 
Release ; and all matters are properly settled. And this is, 
indeed, the final and definite dcrctrine of the Karma-Yoga- 
Science with reference to Actions. (see my commentary 
on Gita. 2. 45). As this difference between the Path of 
Karma of the Mimaihsa school and the Path of Karma- 
Yoga of the Gita has been clearly expounded by me in the 





GiTA, TRANSLATION & COMMENTARY.GH XVIII 1178‘ 

§§ 5 Wi^OTt i 

^TtfrirT^ qftrmwnw* qfr^mrT. II ^ II 

Wet I 

^ ^cHTT fW ^ II < H 

?Tr^ TWT I 

*Tr55 ^ tnJrcJehl tTrl* I ^ II 

Glta-Ratiasya (see pp. 403 to 409 and pp. 478 to 482), 1 
shall not further labour the point here. To pn ceed : after 
the Blessed Lord has thus defined the meanings of the words 
' samnyam' and ‘ tyaga’ according to the Karma-Yoga- 
Science, in reply to the question of Arjuna, He further 
emphasises what He has said by showing the ditferent ways 
of performing Karma, e. g., sattvika etc.—] 

(7) That Action which is ‘niyata’ (that is ‘prescribed’' 
according to one's religion) must not be abiii doiicd. The 
Abandonment o< suclrActions, us a result of Ignorance,- 

is called Wdniasa. (8) If Action is abandoned, fearing that it 
will produce bodily hardship, (that is, for the sole reason that 
it is painful), such Abandonment becomes rdjasa\ and he will 
not obtain (that which is) the result of tyaga. ( >) O Arjuna 1 
when Action, which is ‘niyata’ ( that is, ‘prescribed’) is 
performed as a ‘karya’ (that is, only 'as a duty’ i, and having 
abandoned the Attachment as also the Fruit, si ch Abandon¬ 
ment is looked upon as a sattvika abandonment . 

[The interpretation by some commentators if the word 
‘ niyata' as the ‘ nitya ’ variety of Actions, out of the ‘ nitya', 

‘ naimittika ’ etc., is not correct. The word ‘ niyaia’ must be 
taken here in the same sense as in the sentence ‘ niyatani 
kuru karma tvam ’ (Gl. 3. 8). As has been already stated 
above, the Mimamsa terminology is not im,ended here. 

In Gl. 3. 19, the word ' Imrya' has been usee instead of 
‘ niyata ’; and in stanza 9 above, the words ‘ karya ’ and 
‘ TO'yafa ’ have both appeared in one and the same stanza. 
This stanza is a justification of the statement in stanza 2 at 
the commencement of the Chapter, that performing the 



1180 


GlTA-HAHASyA OB KAttMA-YOGA 


??TT»fr ’fTreramr^f 4tiir4ir ft?5Tw«r n ti 

§§ srf^sms ftw ^ ^or; i 

W?Tr!nf»Rf 4r?I ^ irf^ II XR II 

ActionB, which have fallen to one’s lot according to the 
Sastras, looking upon such Actions as a ‘ duty ’ (see 
Gi. 3. 19), is known as a sdttviku Abandonment; and that 
this is,indeed, what is known as ‘ saMnydsa ' (Renunciation) 
or 'tydga' (abandonment) in the Karma-Yoga-Science, 
'fhe words ‘ tijdga ’ and ‘ sai'imynHa ’ have thus been 
explained. Now, the Blessed Lord explains who the tnie 
‘ tyagin ' or ‘ saihmjdsin ’ is, according to this principle—] 

(10) Who does not dislike a particular Action, because it 
is *akusala' (that is, not beneficial), and who is not attached to 
another Action, because it is profitable or beneficial, he is to 
be called a tvn^'in or samnyasin, endowed with the sattva- 
quality, intelligent, and free from doubt; (11) because, 
whosoever is embodied, for him it is not ])0SBiblc to totally 
give up Action. Therefore, that man, who (without 
abandoning Action) has abandoned only the Fruit of Action, 
he alone is said to be a (real) tyd^in (that is, samiydsin). 

[The Blessed imrd now says that a person, who has 
become a lydgin in this way, that is, by giving up merely 
the Hope of Fruit of Action, without giving up Action 
itself, is not affected by the bondage of any Action 
whatsoever—] 

(12) The ‘a-tydgin’, (that is, one, who docs not abandon 
the Hope of Fruit), obtains after his death three kinds of 
Fruit of Action, namely, evil (anista), good (i.?<o) and mixed 
(miird), (that is, partly good and partly evil); but the 
tamnydsin (that is, one who performs all Actions, having 
given up the Hope of Fruit) never gets (this Fruit), (that is» 
Actions can never bind him). 



(JiTA, TRANSLA'riON & COMMENTARY, CH. XV III 1181 

§§ TT^rtr ^oFTf^ ^ I 

^4^uini u V- n 

aTTMHm ?T«it ^ ^nr ^ i 

%T3i » 



2IT m ’T#^ cT??! IrRH II I' 

^§ ^TRT «hd\<*llr?TI^ 5 * 

^ wi^w 

[These ideas about 'ftjac/a’, ‘///«///«’, and 'Siimnyasin' 
have appeared before in the Gita in itian/^ places 
(Gi. 3. 4-7; 5. :i-10 ; 6. 1); and they liavo been su nmarised 
here. The literal Abandonment (mihnuUm) of ah kind of 
Action has never lioon accepted by tlie Gita. According to 
the Gita, tlie true or tlio iiitija (perfictual) nai'nnijusin, is tho 
person who abandons only the Ifruit of Action (Gi. 5, 3). 
Tho real///iii/fi (Abandonment) Is the Abandomnoi;t of the 
Hope of b’ruit, which (Hope) is imlmed with stlfishnoss, 
that is to say, tho Abandonment of Egoism. In order to 
further emphasise this proposition, further reasoas are now 
given—] 

(13) O Miglity-armed ! i will mention ^to you) tlic five 
essentials, which have been racntionecl in Samkhya 
philosophy, as causes for anythin® lo happen, to which 
listen. (14) These are ‘adhislhatia < place), as a so a doer, 
various kind- of ‘kanni'd (that is, sddhaaa, iin]ilcmeuts), 
various kinds of diverse ‘cesta (that is, Actions oa the part 
of the doer), and along with these, the fifth, namely, 
Destiny. (15) Whatever Action is commenced by man, 
whether by his body, or speech, or mind, whether that 
Action is ‘nyayya’ (that is, justifiable ; or ^mparitv (that is, 
unjustifiable), these are the five causes of it. 

(16) When this is the (true) state of things, that 
‘durmati' (evil-minded person—Trans.) who, as i-result of 
Au undeveloped Reason, thinks that he alone is die Door, 



1183 


GlTA-RA-HASYA OR KARMA-YOGA 


STT^firTt 

^ ^JTlWnhT^ IT II II 

does not (it must be said) understand anything. (17) Who 
does not possess the belief that “I am the doer”, and whose 
Reason is unattached, such a person, even destroying other 
persons, cannot be said to have killed them; and that 
(Action) does not bind him. 

[The word ‘ sawde/jj/a ’ in stanza 13 has been interpreted 
by some commentators as meaning the Ved5nta-Sastra ; but 
as the next, that is, the fourteenth stanza, has appeared 
literally in the NarSyanlya doctrine, and as there is a 
previous reference in that treatise to the two Kapila 
Sarhkhya elements, namely, Prakrti and Purusa, the word 
■ iamkhya in my opinion, must be taken in this place to 
mean the ‘ Kapila Sarhkhya philosophy The proposition 
that a man should not entertain the Mope for the Fruit of 
Action, nor the egotistical idea that he will do any 
particular thing, has often before appeared in the Gita 
fGi. 3. 19; 3. 47 ; 3. 37 ; 5. 8 -11; 13. 39); and that very 
proposition has boon further emphasised here by saying, 
that “man is not the only reason for the effect of any 
Action coming into existence (see Gi. Ra. Cli. XI). Stanza . 
14 means, that whether human beings exist in this world or 
not, the uninterrupted activity of the world will go on 
iccordiug to the natural course of Prakrti; and that, things, 
which a man believes to have been done by him, are not 
the result merely of his efforts, but have been brought 
about by his efforts combined with the other activ¬ 
ities in the world. For in.stancc, agriculture does not 
iepeiid merely on the efforts of a man, but the natural 
lualities or the activities of other things like land, 
seed, rain, manure, oxen etc. are necessary, in order that 
agriculture should be successful. Some of the various activ¬ 
ities in the world which are thus necessary to make 
human efforts successful, are partly known to us ; and man 
nakes an effort after considering the favourableness or 
otherwise of these factors. But, there are also several other 
activities in the world, of which men are not aware, and 



GlTA,TKANSLATION&OOMMENTARY.CH XVIH 1183 


which arc either favourable or unfavourable to the efforte 
ho makes; and these are known as DESTINY ; and this is 
said to be the fifth reason for any particular result coming 
about. If all these things are necessary in order that 
human effort should be successful; and if many of these 
filings are not within one’s control or even not known, 
then, (i) proudly saying that one will do a parti mlar thing 
or (ii) entertaining a llopo of Fruit that a particular result 
should follow the particular Action which oi o does, is 
clearly a sign of folly (Gl. Ra. pp. 452 to 455). But, 
stanza 17 is not to be understood as authorising that one, 
who has comiuered tlio Hope of Fruit, may do any evil 
Action he likes. As that which ordinary iier.sons do, is 
done by them with the idea of satisfying seltisli purpo.ses, 
they perform wrong actioiw. But, the min, whose 
selfishnes.s, avarice, or Hope of Fruit, have been fully 
annihilated, and to wtiom all created beings are the same, 
is not cajiable of injury to another; because, the sin F 
in the Reason and not in the Action. It, therefore., 
necessarily follows, that, oven if a man, (wbcse Reason 
-has first been proved to be pure and clean), does .lomething, 
which may appear improper from the worldlj iioint of 
view, yet, the seed of that Action must be mre; and 
stanza 17 says that such a pure-minded person cannot lu 
held responsible for such Action. The princijile of tlu 
•siulessnoss of the Stithaprajha, that is, of the jieiMon, whose 
Reason has become pure, has also boon enuncia.ed in tin 
Upanisad,s (8eo Kausi. 3. 1 and Fahea-dasi, 14. 10 and 17). 
But, as this subject-matter has been fully thrashod out by 
mo in Chapter Xll of the (iita-Rahasya, f will imt further 
labour the point here. As the Blo.s.sed Lord ha^, in this 
way, fully analysed the moaning of the word.s ‘ iamnyusa ' 
and‘/v/df/u’. which (analysis) was inado necessary by the 
.<juestion of Arjuna; and proved that (i) true or 
sattiilai Abandonment (lyiiyn) consists of pirforming 
all Actions, which befall a person on account of llcriptural 
directions proper for his status in life, after he has giver, 
up egoism and the Hope of Fruit; and that (ii) {. iving up 
Action is not true Abandonment, He now (ompletes. 



1184 


gIta-bahasya or karma-yoga 


§§ iftirrai flrfw i 

^R?:oT ^ It ic II 

ItM ^ ^ ^ ^ firtsr 5or^^. i 

hI-^^CI II ^^11 

from the Karma-Yogio point of view, the consideration 
of the divisions of Karma into sattvika, etc., started in 
Chap. XVII.] 

(18) jnana, jfieya, and jnata is the three-fold division of 
'karma-cod^na ; and karana, karma and kartd is the three¬ 
fold division of karma-samgraha. (19) jfidnaf karma, and. 
karta each falls into three sub-divisiojis by reason of the 
difference in the three {saliva, rajas, and lamas) constituents, 
as has been stated in the guiiasamkhydna-sdslra (that is, in. 
the Kapila-Sarnkliya-Sastra). Hear those (sub-divisions) just 
as they have been mentioned (which I am describing to 
you). 

[ The words ‘ karnia-codand ’ and ‘ karma-samjraha ’ are 
technical expressions. Before any act is performed by 
the organs, that Action has to be decided upon by the 
Mind. Therefore, this mental operation is called ‘ karma- 
codanu ’, that is ‘ the first inspiration to do the act and 
that has naturally three aspects, namely, the ‘ jnana the 
‘ jfieya ’ and the ‘ jndta \ For instance, before actually 
manufacturing an earthen pot, the potter {jnata) says in 
his own mind : “ I have to do this particular thing {jneya), 
and it can be done in a particular way (jaSna)”. This is 
the ‘ karma-codand When in this way, a decision has 
been arrived at in the Mind, the potter ( karfa) gets 
together implements (/camwa ) like earth, wheel etc., and 
actually manufactures the earthen pot ( karma). This is 
the karma-sanigraha. Though the earthen pot is the 
''karma' (Action) of the potter, it is also referred to as 
the ‘ karya' of the earth. To proceed : it will be seen that 
the word ‘ karmn-codand ’ indicates the Action which 
takes place in the Mind or in the* internal sense ’; and- 
the word ‘ karma-samgraha' indicates the external Actions, 
which correspond with that mental Action. In order to fully 



GiTA, 'I'RANSLATION & COMMENTARY, (TXVIII1185 


»> ^0 » 

fTxfTR %% TTsreni U ^5. U 
3icrT«rT4crfc4 ^ n 5!^ h 


consider any Action, one must take into account both 
the ‘ codiina ' as well as the ‘ navuiraha '. Out • )f these, the 
characteristics of jndmi, jmi/u, and jnciia {ks^trd^na) from 
the Meta,physical point of view have been considered before 
in Chapter XIII of the Gita (13. 18). Yet, as the charac¬ 
teristics of jildna in the shape of Action ar( somewhat 
different, the word ‘ JMmi ’ out of the former tried, and the 
words ‘ kunna' and ‘ hirl(i ’ out of the lattei triad are 
now def] tied by the Blessed Lord— j 

f20) 'I'hat jfidiui, by wliich one realises that in alll 
*vii)hafila' (that is, diverse beings) there is only One 
‘ avibhakta' (that is, undivided—Trans.) and Inexhaustible 
‘bhdva’ (tliat is, Principle), is called sdttviku Knowledge; 
(21) that /«o«a (Knowledge), which creates tm impression 
that there arc diverse bhdva-‘i (Principles) in the various 
created things, is rdjnsa prana ; (22) but that insignificant 
Knowledge, wliich unreasonably and without u iderstanding 
elementary principles, confines itself to only one thing,, 
looking upon it as the all-in-all, is ifwjasa jndna, 

[These characteristics of the various kinds of jnuna are 
very comiirohensive. The idea that one’s wife and children is 
the entire 'samsani is tdmasa Knowledge. When one rises a 
little above this frame of mind, one’s vision becomes more 
comprehensive; and a man begins to look upon a fellow- 
townsman or a fellow-countryman as his own. Nevertheless, 
the idea that men from different place.s or different countries 
are different from each other is still there. This knowledge 
is rajasa ; but, when one rises even above this stage and 
realises that there is only one Atman in all creia^ed beings, 
that Knowledge is complete and sdl/mka. In short, seeing. 



1186 


GiTA-EAHASYA OR KARMA-YOGA 


^ ^’dc<:>HT ctqR g ’ g’t|^ I) II 

the Indivisible (avibhakta) in that which seems divided 
(vibhakta), or seeing unity in diversity, is the true 
characteristic of Knowlege; and he who has thus under¬ 
stood that “ neha nanasti kimcana ", that is, “ there is no 
manifoldness in this universe ”, is really Heleased; and, 

“ nifty oh sa niTtyum apnoti ya iha naneva pasyaii ” 
(Br, 4. 4. 10), that is, “ one who sees diversity in this 
world, falls into the cycle of birth and death ”, as has been 
stated in the Brhadaranyaka and in the Kathopanisad 
(aee Katha. 4. 11). This is all that is to be Realised in the 
world (Gi. 13. 16); and this is the climax of Knowledge; 
because, when all things are looked upon as one, the mental 
process of synthesis has no further field to operate (GJ. 
Ra. pp. 320-1), How this synthesising mental process 
goes on, has been described in Chapter IX of the Glta- 
Rahasya (pp. 295 to 297), to which the reader is referred. 
The effect of this suttvilca Knowledge on one’s bodily 
nature, when it is indelibly impressed on the mind, has 
been described under the name of ‘ the qualities of godlike 
endowment ’ in the beginning of Chapter XVI; and in 
Chapter XIII, this kind of bodily nature has been 
called 'jHana' (13.7-11). This clearly shows that (1) the 
perfection of the synthesising mental process and (2) the 
change in one’s bodily nature as a result of such perfection, 
are both included by the Gita in the connotation of the 
term ‘ jnana' (Knowledge). Therefore, although the 
characteristics of Knowledge, as mentioned in stanza 20, 
may appear to be the description of a mental process, yet, 
that description includes the description of its effect on 
the bodily nature, as has been made clear at the end of 
Chap. IX of the Gita-Rahasya. To proceed: the Blessed 
Lord having thus described the various kinds of Jfiana, 
now describes the various kinds of Karma— 

(23) That Action, which is performed by a man, without 
entertaining the desire for obtaining the Fruit, without 
■entertaining love or hate (in the mind), without being attached, 




fGiTA, TRANSLATION & COMMENTARY, OIL. XVIII1187 


^ m sir. i 

cRrrsroSfTlrT*? u ^8 ii 

^ qTiTlimdiixiJ-?^ II II 


;and as being ‘niyata (that is, prescribed) for hirn, according to 
his own dharma (religion), is called sattvika Action; (24) but 
that Action, which is performed with much labour (by a man), 
entertaining 'kdma' (that is, the desire for reward.), or having 
an egotistical feeling, is called rujasa; (25) and that Action, 
which is ignorantly commenced, without considering the 
armbandhd ( that is, 'what its result will be' ), or one's 
•pauruiid (that is, what one’s strength is), and vhether (from 
it) there will or will not result destruction o: ‘himsa’ (that 
is, ‘harm’—Trans.)) is called tamasa. 

[These three kinds uf Action onibrace all Action. Why 
Desireless Action has been called the sUttiil.a, or the best 
Action has been explained in Chapter XI of the Gita- 
Rahasya, to which the reader is referred. T1 is is also the 
true ‘ akarma' or Non-Action (see my commentary on 
Gi. 4. 16). As the doctrine of the Gita is, thi.t the Reason 
>{huddhi) is superior to the Action (karma), the Reason 
.(frame of mind) of the Doer has each time he m mentioned 
in giving the above characteristics of Karma. It must be 
borne in mind that whether an Action is sdftiika or tdrnasa 
has not been determined by reference to the external effects 
of the Action (see Gi. Ra. Oh. XI1, pp. 530-531 . Similarly, 
one is not to understand the Gita as preachirg that when 
one has abandoned the Hope of Ifruit, one maj do what one 
likes, without considering the pros and cons, and 
indiscriminately, as will appear from stanza 25 ; because, 
stanza 25 emphatically says that. Action perfe rmed without 
seeing the ‘ anubandha' or considering the Frv it, is tamasa 
and not sattmka (see Gi. Ra. pp, 530-531). The Blessed 
Lord now explains the divisions into which all Doers fall, 
according to the same principle—] 




1188 


GiTA-RAHASYA OR KARMA-YOGA 


^ ^TTf^ n U 

gjrlf ?T3ra*. II II 

4:d«^ 9idl I 

fwfr ^ ^ cTTiTO II II 


(26) Who is not Attached ; who does not say : ‘I’ or 
“mine”; who is not (mentally) moved, (both) when the 
work is successful and when it is not successful; (and) who 
(nevertheless) performs Action, being embued with 
enthusiasm and pcrscvercnce, he is called (a) snttvika (Doer); 
(27) who is attached to objects of sense, (and) avaricious; 
who is filled with joy or sorrow (on the success or failure 
respectively of Action); who entertains the desire for obtain¬ 
ing the Fruit of Action ; who is harmful and impure, such a 
Doer is called rSyasa; (28) who is ‘ayukta' (that is, with an 
unsteady Reason), ignorant, proud, a cheater, 'naiskrtika' 
(that is, one who deprives others of their goods); who is 
idle, ‘dirgha-sutrl’ (that is, difficult to get rid of; or, who 
takes a month to do what is ordinarily done in an hour), 
such a Doer is called idmasa. 

[The word ‘ naiffkrtika {7iis +lcrt=to cut) in stanza 28 
means “ one who cuts the work of others, or ruins it 
But some commentators accept instead tho reading 
' iKiikTtilca ‘ nikrta ’ has been defined as a ‘ cheat ’ in 
the Amarakosa; but, as the adjective ‘ cheat ’ has once 
appeared above, 1 have accepted the reading ‘ naiskrtika \ 
Out of these three kinds of Doers, the s'utfvi/ca Doer is 
the true non-doer {akarta), the untouched-doer (alipta-karla), 
or the Karma-Yogin. This stanza clearly shows that 
though he has given up tho Hope of Fruit, hie 
enthusiasm, ambition and discrimination do not cease to 
exist. Tho Blessed Lord now applies this description of 
the three-fold development of the universe to Reason 
(buddhi). Steadfastness (dhrli), and Happiness (sukha). 
The word ‘ buddhi' in these stanzas has to be taken to mean, 




GiTA, TRANSLATION & COMMENTARY, C 3. XVIII 1189' 


§§ 1%^ ^ I 

sifT% ^ f%ff% ^ I 

^ iTt^ ?n ^ 1%: ^ qr^ n u 

ann =q ^ ^qjT^irq ^ i 

arqvjrrqrsnrRTm w qi^a f « 

3m4 qr cm^nssfcfT i 

^'■of fi qq O rTm ff^: m II II 

the ‘ mjavasmjutmika huddhih' or the ‘ dec iding mental 
organ ’ described in Chapter II (2. 4’); and this 

siibjecit has been fully explained in Chapter VI of the 
Gita-Rahasya, pp. 187 to 192, to which tie reader is 
referred.J 

(29) O Dhanafijaya ! I am mentioning to you in their 
entirety the three divisions, arising as a result of tlie three 
constituents, into which Reason and Steadfastness fall, which 
hear. {30j pravrtli (that is, commencing ti perform any 
particular Action), nivrtti (that is, not cemraencing any 
particular Action), karya (that is, what should be done), and 
akarya (that is, what should not be done), vhiit should be 
feared, and what should not be feared, what leads to bondage 
and what to Release, that Reason, which understands all 
this, is called sattvika-, (31) that Reason by which a proper 
discrimination is not arrived at between ti e righteous and 
the unrighteous, between the doable and Jhe not-doable, 
such a Reason, O Partha 1 is rajasa; (31) that Reason, 
which being steeped in ignorance, looks upon unrighteous¬ 
ness, as righteousness, and causes a vipanta (that is, wrong) 
view to be taken about everything, such a Reason, O' 
Partha ! is tamasa. 

[ When Reason has been divided in this wi .y. Conscience 
(fiadasadvivelm-buddhi) no more remains an independent 
thing, but has to bo included in the sattvika huddhih, as has 
been explained in the Gita-Rahasya (pp. 191,192), to which, 
the reader is referred. ] 



1190 


GiTA-RAHASYA OB KARMA-YOGA 


w g >:r^^Rn«rf5j: ^c^rr i 

srt|^ «+»«!ii^i|[i qT?5 TRRft H ^8 n 

W ^ ^ 5fT^ JT^ ^ I 
5T f^rVTT ^*. RT qT5!J cTm^ II II 


(35) That ‘ a-vyabhicart’ (that is, not swerving this side 
or that side) Steadfastness, with which the various activities 
of the Mind,‘life, and of the various senses are carried on by 
Yoga (in the shape of the Abandonment of the Fruit of 
Action) is sattvika, (34) O Arjuna ! that Steadfastness by 
which dharma, kdma and artha (these pnrusUrtha-s) are 
carried on, and which entertains the desire for the fruit (of 
that dharma^ artha or kdma) as occasion arises, that 
Steadfastness, O Partha I is rdjasa ; (35) that Steadfastness, 
•by which a person becoming evil-minded, does not abandon 
.sleep, fear, lamentation, dislike, and pride, such a Steadfast¬ 
ness or perseverance, O Partha I is tdmasa. 

[ The word ‘ dhrti' literally means ‘ courage ’; but, what 
is meant here is not physical courage, hut mental 
determination. Coming to a decision is something to he 
done hy the Reason. But, even if the Reason has come to 
a proper decision, such decision must remain steady. 
Giving, in this way, strength to the determination, is a 
quality of the Mind. It is, therefore, said that Steadfast¬ 
ness or moral courage is a quality, which arises by the 
co-operation of Mind and Reason, But, the description of 
sattvika Steadfastness is not complete by merely saying 
that a man must carry on the activities of the Mind, life, 
and the organs by a ‘courage’, which is *a-vyahhicari’, that 
is, which does not run here and there. One must also be 
told with reference to what these activities are to be 
performed, or what the Karma of this activity is; and that 
Karma has been described by the word ‘Yoga’. Needless 
to say, it is not enough to define the word ' Yoga ’ as 
meaning merely ‘concentrated Mind’. Therefore, I have 




CilTA, TRANSLATION & (X)MMENTARY, C H, XVIII 1191 

§§ f r cl^P f l ' ^ ^ I 

fiRfiR MRuiiiiu^iHmMH' 

?Tr^I? II II 

interpreted it as moaning, ‘ Yoga in tl e shape of 
Abandoniiienl of the Fruit of Action ’, having regard to the 
anterior and the posterior contexts. Just as ;n de8cril)ing 
the characteristics of the sattnka Karma o* the satliiku 
Doer, tlie quality of ‘giving up the Attacliment to the 
Fruit ’ has been considered important, so in considering 
the characteristics of snilrika Steadfastnos?, the same 
quality must also be considered important. Besides, it is 
stated in the next stanza that rajnsd Steadfa.^tness desires 
the Fruit of Action. It, thcrcTore, follows even from 
the n(!xt stanza, that t<uili>i.kn Stoadfastni ss must bo 
the 0 [)posile, that is to say. must be iudifforont to 
the Fruit of Action. In short, strength of i etermination 
is only a mental process; and in ordi r to decide 
whether that detenuination is good or ba 1, one must 
take into account the Action to which that Jiiental process 
is applied. If the Steadfastness is only in tie matter of 
sleep, idleness, etc., then it is tninnsa ; if it is i i the matter 
of performing the ordinary daily Actions will the Hope of 
Fruit, it is rctjasa ; and if it is in the Yoga, in the shape of 
the Abandonment of Kruit of Action, then i, is sathika. 
These are the sub-divisions of Steadfastness. Now, the 
Blessed Lord explains bow happiness is sub-divided into 
three kinds as a re,suit of the difference in the three 
constituents—1 

(36) Now, O Bharata-sresth-.i 1 I will aho explain the 
three icinds of happiness, which hear. That, in which a man 
is engrossed by abhyasn (that is, by constantly having it), 
and in which, unliappiness comes to an end ; (37) that, 

which is like poison in the beginning, but neetar-like in its 
effects ; that happiness, arising from the s it sfaction ol the 
Self-engrossed Reason, (that is to say, Metaphysical happi- 



GITA-RAHASYA or KARMA-YOGa 


i;i92 


I 

II II 

I'^rcs^'UWiir’i} fTrn^ms^ricn? ii ii 

:ness) is sdttvika. (38) That, which arises from the contact 
of the senses with the objects of sense (that is to say, 
Material happiness), which is nectar-like in the beginning, 
but poisonous in its effects, that happiness is said to be 
rajasa. (39),And that, which in the beginning as also in 
its anubandha, (that is, in the result) causes Ignorance, and 
which springs from sleep, idleness, or ‘pramdda’ (that is, 
forgetfulness of one’s duties), that happiness is called 
tdmasa. 

[I have interpreted the word ‘ atma-buddhi ’ in the 37tli 
stanza, as ‘ dtma-nistha-buddhi (L a, Self-engrossed Reason); 
but, taking the word ‘ dl?na’ to mean ‘ one’s self ’, the word 
‘ atma-buddhi ’ can also be explained to mean “ one’s own 
Reason ”; because, it has b(?en stated above (6. 21) that 
‘ intense happiness ’ is only ‘ huddhi-grdliya (Mind-Realised) 
and ‘ atindnya ’ (imperceptible to the senses). But, 
whichever meaning is taken, the result is the same. Even 
if it is said that real or permanent happiness does not lie 
in the enjoyment of the objects of sense, but is ‘ buddhi- 
pra/j 2 /a ’ (Mind-Realised), yet, when one considers what is 
necessary to be done, in order that one’s Mind should 
acquire this true and intense happiness, it becomes quite 
clear from Chapter VI, that this intense happiness cannot 
be acquired, unless one’s Reason has become Self- 
engrossed (Gl. 6. 21, 22). ‘ buddhi ’ is such an organ, that, 
on the one hand, it casts a glance towards the diffusion- 
out of the three-qualitied Prakrti, and on the other hand, it 
can also realise the Parabrahman in the shape of the 
Atman, Which is at the root of that diffusion. Therefore, 
when by controlling the senses, one removes the Reason 
from the diffusion of Prakrti embodied in the three 
-constituents, and makes it introspective and self- 
engrossed—and that is all which can be acquired by the 




GITA, TRANSLATION & COMMENTARY, CH. XVIII1193 


§§ 5T ^ ^ 5^- I 

Wr^ sr^^g't^ n ?io u 

Patanjdla-Yoga- -it (the Reason) i)ecomeB happy (prasanna); 
and man experiences true and intense happiness. For an 
explanation about the superiority of l^Ietaphysical 
happiness, the reader is referred to the end of Chapter V of 
the Gita-Rahasya (pp. 155 to 160). The Blessed Lord now 
explains in a general way that this three-fol.d difference is 
to be found everywhere in the world—] 

(40) There is nothing on this earth or in ! he firmament, 
or in the gods (that is, in the abode of the gods), which is 
^mukta' (that is, free) from these three constituents of 
Prakrti. 

[From .stanisa 18 upto here, the Blessf d Lord has 
explained the different kinds of jMm, karma, kirta, buddhi, 
dhrli, and mkha ; and placed before the eyes of Arjuna, a 
picture of how diversity arises in the entire world as a 
result of the difference between the three constituents of 
Prakrti; and He has thereby proved, that in the case of 
each of those various things, the sattvika va/iety is the 
best and the most acceptable. The highest stage in even 
these sd«/;//ca varieties, is known as the ‘ truiwrruUdvasthd' 
(the state of being beyond the three constitui nts). That, 

' trigundtita ' or ' nirgum'is not a fourth and independent 
division according to the Gita, has been e'cplained by 
me in Chapter VII of the Gita-Rahasya (pp. 327, 228); 
and following the same argument, the sdUoira condition 
is also sub-divided in the Manu-Smrti into uttama 
(best), rmdhyama (medium) aixd kanistha (infxrior); and 
‘ uttama sattvika ’, is said to be productive of Release, and 
‘ madhgatna sattvika ’ is said to be productive of heaven 
(Manu. 12. 48-50 and 89-91). To proceed: i.his finishes 
the description of the diversity of Prakrti in the world. 
The Blessed Lord now explains how the arrangement of the 
four classes has been made on the basis of this division of 
constituents. It has been stated over and over again, that 
it is the duty of every one in this world to perfe rm all the 



1194 


GITA-RAHASYA OB KARMA-YOGA 


§§ ^^nnf ^ qt^n i 

^i*il ^ I 

?ITST fqinwf^cT^ 3gTqn$ U 8^ U 

‘ niyata ’ Action, that is, all Action which is prescribed for- 
him, according to his own-status (svadharma), having given 
up the Hope of Fruit, and maintaining his steadiness, 
enthusiasm, and determination (Gi. 18. 7-9, 33 and 3. 8); 
but, the ^sential factor by which that particular Action 
becomes ‘ niyata' (ordained) in each case, has not so far 
been explained anywhere, A succinct reference to the 
arrangement of the four classes has appeared before (4.13); 
and it has been stated there that the discrimination 
between the Doable and the Not-doable should be made by 
reference to the Sastras (Gl. 16. 34). But, the Scriptural 
arrangement of the four classes, which has been arrived at 
on the basis of the division of Action according to the 
constituents, in order that the various activities of the 
world should go on in an orderly way, has not been 
explained in that place (sea, Gl. Ra. pp. 463-464 ; 555-556 
and 697-698). For this reason, the Blessed Lord now 
explains the institution by means of which the duty of 
everybody in society becomes ‘ niyata ’, that is, ‘ ordained 
namely, the four-cla.ss-arrangem8nt, on the basis of the 
divisions of Prakrti into three constituents ; and He, at the 
same time, also explains what duties have been ' niyata' 
(ordained) for each of the four classes. ] 

(41) O Parantapa 1 the respective duties of Brahmins 
(priests), Ksatriyas (warriors), Vaisyas (tradesman) and 
Sudras (menials) have been individually fixed with reference 
to the qualities arising from their inherent natures, that is, 
from Prakrti. (42) The inherently natural duties of a 
Brahmin are peace, self-restraint, religious austerities, 
cleanliness, quietness, straight-forwardness (humility ), 
Knowledge (that is. Spiritual Knowledge), Vijnana (that is, 
Emperial Knowledge), and aslikya-bttddhi (that is, belief in, 




GiTA, 'I’RANSLAT10N& COMMENTARY. OF, XVHI 1195' 


^T(<i cTift I 

^T-smp^TTST^ra ^ ^ ?5r>!n^r3n3[ n 8^ u 

^ II 88 II 

a future world—Trans.). (43) The inherently natural duty 
(Karma) of the Ksatriya is bravery, brilliance, courage, 
intentness, not running away from the battle, generosity, 
and exercising authority (over subject people). (44) ‘AtsC 
(that is, agriculture) ‘goraksya’ (that is, the irusiness of 
of keeping cattle), and vanijya (that is, trade) is the 
inherently natural duty of the Vaisya; and in t le same way, 
service is the inherently natural duty of the Sudra. 

f The arrangement of the four classes ha.s come into 
existence as a result of the difference between the 
inherently natural qualities; but, it is not that this 
explanation has for the first time been given in the Gita. 
This explanation about the difference between the qualities 
has, with nominal differences, appeared (il in the con¬ 
versation between Nahusa and Yudhisthira, aid in the 
conversation between the Brahmin and the Hunter in the 
Vanaparva of the Mahabharata (Vana, 180 and 311); 
(ii) in the conversation between Bhrgu andBharaevaja in the 
Santi-parva (San. 188); and (iii) in the conversation between 
Uma and MaheSvara in the Anusasanaparva 39. 11). 

It has been stated before that the various activities of the 
world result from the differences in the constituents of 
Prakrti; and it has been proved that the four-class- 
arrangement, which determines what each of these classes 
has to do, is itself the result of the difference in the 
constituents of Prakrti. The Blessed I.ord now says, that 
(i) all those Actions must be carried on by everybody with 
a desireless frame of mind, that is, with the idea of 
dedicating them to the Parame.svara, as otherwise, the 
world will not go on; that (ii) a man acquires Perfection 
when he conducts himself in this way ; and that (iii) it is 
not necessary to perform any other austerity for obtaining 
Perfection— 



1196 


GiTA-RAHASYA OR KARMA-YOGA 


T%% ^ n u 

?Irf; !TfT%%Tr;Tf %5T cm*? I 

^cI^HniT rwwr^ T%f% T^m TTR^T*. II II 

§§ ^5? T^son ^^gi%?TTc? i 

i^HT^*icT ^ i%f^*? n a^ n 

(45) That man, who is engrossed in the performance of 
his own duties (which have befallen him as a result of in¬ 
herently nakiral qualities) acquires (by that alone) ultimate 
highest Perfection. Hear, how a man acquires Perfection by 
adhering to his own duties. (46) When a man, (not merely 
by speech or flowers, but) by performing tlie Actions which 
befall him (according to his own religion), worships That, 
from Which all created beings have sprung, and Which has 
pervaded or oceupied the whole of this Cosmos, he (merely 
thereby) attains Perfection. 

[Tho Blessed Lord has explained that performing desire- 
lessly, and with the idea of dedicating to the Paramesvara, 
the various duties, whicli befall one as a result of the four- 
chiBs-arrangement, is a kind of worship of the Vir&ta- 
formed Paramesvara, and leads to Perfection (Gl. Ra. pp. 
611-612). But this duty, which has befallen one as a result 
of the division of Action according to divergent qualities, 
may appear faulty, undesirable, difficult, or uulikeable 
from another point of view. For instance, in the present 
case, the religion of Ksatriyas may appear faulty, because 
it entails killing. Therefore, the reply to the questions, 

(i) whether, in these circumstances, a man should give up 
his own religion and accept another religion (Gi. 3. 35); or 

(ii) should perform his own duties under any circumstances; 
and (iii) if so, how he should perform them, is now given 
by using the same argument as was used in the beginning 
of this Chapter in dealing with Actions likes Yajnas and 
Yagas—J 

(4 7) Though another religion may be easy of observance, 
and one's own Action according to the four-class-arrangement 




GTTA, '[ IJANHl.ATiON & COMM ENTAliY, CJ- . XVIII 1197 


tROT >irr5TrfiTR?iTfm: n «< n 

nTfTTfJTr • 

%C^?JT%T% ’ITJTr II 8^ II 

may be ‘vlgimd (that is, faulty), yet, it is morii moper ; when 
a person is performing his own inherently natural duty (that 
is, the duty which has been ordained for him according to 
the fom-class-arrangcincnt, based on natural inherent 
qualities), he docs not thereby incur (an}") sin. (48) O Son 
of Kiinti ! that Action, which is naturally (th&t is, by result 
of birth) ‘iiivata’ (that is, ordained—Trans,), according 
to the division of tlie qualities, such Action, even 
if improper, should not (ever) be given up ; because, all 
arainbha (tlmt is, activities) are enveloped i \ (some) fault 
(or other), as lire in smoke. (49) (Tliereforir) when a man 
behaves, without being attaclicd to anything, and having 
controlled his mind, and with a dcsircless h ;art, then, by 
Renunciiition (of the Fruit ol Action), the higd cst Perfection 
by Non-Action {iiai^karmya-siddlii) is obtained. 

[The id(!a,s that “one’s own religion is bet;er than the 
religion of anoth(!r” ((41. 3, 35), and that “in or lor to obtain 
the ludakanni/u-fiiddlu, it is not necessary to abandon Action” 
(Gi, 3. 4), which had been mentioned before, have again 
been made clear in this snimnarising Chapter. The 

meaning of ‘ iKuslainmjd', and wliat true ^ iudshirmya-slddhi’ 
is, have been made clear by me in my con mentary on 
Gl. 3. 4, to which the reader is referred. When one 
remembers that persons following the Path of llenunciation 
aim only at Release, whereas, the Blessed Lord aims 
equally at Release and at Universal Afelfare, the 

importance of this principle becomes eisily clear. 

Universal Welfare, that is, ‘the maintenance and sustenance 
of society needs the man endowed with ilpiritual and 
Empirical Knowledge, as much as the brav(! varrior, who 
wins success on the battle-field by his sword, tl e agricultur¬ 
ist, the merchant, the labourer, the cr.rpenter, the 




1198 


GITA-RAHASYA OR KARMA-YOGA 


ironsmith, the potter, or even the butchef, who sells flesh. 
And, if it is said that Release cannot be obtained unless 
Action is abandoned, then, all these people will have to 
give up their respective business, and become ascetics ! 
People, who adhere to the Path of Abandonment of Action 
(karma-sammjasa) do not attach much importance to this; 
but, the vision of the Gita is not narrow like that. Therefore, 
the Gita says that, it is not proper for a person to give up 
the profession which has befallen him as a result of his 
status-in-life (adhikara), and take up the profession of 
somebody ^Ise, on the ground that it is better. Whatever 
profession is taken, there is bound to be some weak point 
or other in it. Ifor instance, that 'ksdnti' (forgiveness), 
which is considered to be specially proper for a Brahmin. 
(18. 43), has attached to it the great fault that “a person, 
who is forgiving, is looked upon as weak” (Ma. Bha. 
San. 160. 34) ; and it is a misfortune that one has to sell 
flesh, if he follows the business of a butcher (Ma. Bha. 
Vana, 206) ; but it is not proper, on that account, to give 
up these Actions. When once one has accepted a part¬ 
icular Action as one’s own, for whatever reason one 
may have done so*, one must perform it, unattachedly, 
however difficult or undesirable it might be; because, 
the greatness or smallness of a man does not 
depend on the profession he follows ; and his worth, from 
the spiritual point of view, depends on the frame of mind 
with which he follows that profession or performs that 
Action (Gl. 3. 49). Though a man, having a peaceful mind 
and having realised the Unity, which underlies the entire 
creation, may be a merchant or a butcher, whether by caste 
or by profession, yet, if he follows his profession with a 
desireless frame of mind, he is as much entitled to Release, 
and is as great as the Brahmin, who is engaged in ablutions 
and religious duties, or the brave warrior. Not only is this 
so, but it is clearly stated in stanza 49, that the Release 

♦ This is difficult to understand. There can be only one 
reason for accepting the Action, namely, that it is ' Sastra-ordainod’ 
( niyata) —Translator. 




GiTA,TRANSLATION &COMMENTARY, OH.XVIII1199 


§5 war rT'-aissirtfw Jr i 

^JTT%%w Mgr WT grr n '^ 5 n 

TW^WT 5^T ^rWTSSrJTR I 

5i5?rftf?wwwRrw?Fwr TTwIfr w n h 

liWTJnfnTgfr %ttw n n 

fwg^w ^T?Hr warggrw n t n 
warg^* sr^^srTfTrr w ^rt^fw w ^RT|fi% 1 

w^r% qrr^ n h 

to bo obtained by abandoning Action in equally well 
obtained by persons, who perform thoir various duties with 
a desiroloss frame of mind. This is, indeed, the deep 
principle which underlies the Bhagavata religic n ; and it is 
clear from the history of Maharastrlya saints that it is 
not impossible to carry into effect this principle of 
modelling one’s conduct accordingly (see Gi, Ea, Oh, XlII, 
pp. 614 and 615). 'I'he Blessed Lord now ex] lains how a 
man ultimately obtains Release by restricting himself to 
his own Actions—) 

(50) I will briefly explain to you, O Son of Kunti I how, 
when Perfection is thus obtained, tlic Brahman, which is 
■the highest state of Juana, is gained (by tliat ratm); to which, 
listen. (51) That man who, being inspired with a pure 
Reason and courageously controlling himself, gives up the 
objects (of the senses) such as, sound etc., and eschews love 
or hate ; (52) and stays in a 'vivikta' (that it, a chosen, or 
a solitary) place ; who eats little, and whose oody, speech, 
and mind are under his control, and who ij continually 
meditative and apathetic; (53) who (similarly), having 

given up egoism, power, pride, desire, and anger and all 
*parigraha' (that is, bonds), has become peaceful, or self-less, 
such a man is fit to become Mcrged-in-Brahman {brahrna- 
bhuta). (54) When he is merged in the Brahman, he 
becomes happy in mind, and does not entertain a desire for 




1200 


GITA-EAHASYA OR KARMA-YOGA 


TTwnr5TRn% ?n<4i5'!i5aiRTT cr?^ i 
cTcTT m dTcfdl fTIrcTT RW dlH^cKH » >' 

ITrS^n^^dlVUId ^ERcT 11 U 

anything, and does not hate anything ; and, becoming equal 
towards all beings, acquires intense Devotion towards Me. 

(55) By Devotion, he acquires the essential knowledge of 
how much I am, and Who I am; and when he has thus 
essentially recognised Me, he becomes merged in Me. 

(56) Even while he is performing all actions, having taken 
shelter in Me, he, by My favour, obtains a permanent and 
inexhaustible state. 

[ It must be borne in mind that the above description of 
the siddhavastha is of a Kiirma-Yogin and not of a 
Karma-Sarhnyasin, It has been stated already in the 
beginning, in stanzas 45 and 49, that this description is of 
the person, who performs all actions without Attachment; 
and at the end, in stanza 50, we find the words “even while 
he is performing all Actions ”, This description is similiar 
to the description of a Devotee or of a irigunutita. Nay ! 
some words have even been taken from that description. 
For instance, the word ‘ fKirigraha ’ in stanza 53 has 
appeared in the description of the Yogin in Chapter VI 
(6.10); the words “ na socati na kahkmti" in stanza 54, are 
to be found in the description of the Path of Devotion in 
Chapter XII (12. 17); and the words “ remaining in a 
‘ vivikta that is, a chosen (solitary) place ”, have appeared 
before in Gl. 13, 10. As this final state, attained by the 
Karma-Yogin, is the same as the final state reached by the 
Karma-Sarhnyasin, from the purely mental point of view, 
commentators, subscribing to the Path of Renunciation, 
have got a chance of imagining that these descriptions 
support their school. But, I have stated any number of 
times before, that this procedure is not correct. To proceed: 
the Blessed Lord has, in the beginning of this Chapter, 

(i) defined ‘ Saihnyasa ’ by stating, that Saihnyasa does not 



GITA, TKANSLATK)N& COMMENTARY, Cl . Xvni R301 


^rRTT g4l;4TrfOT JT^I Jlrtrr* 

^IrT<T II II 

mean ‘ Abandonment of Action ’; but means ‘ Abandon¬ 
ment of the Hcvpc of Fruit’; and (ii) maintained that 
Actions, such as giving up of food etc., whether they are 
karnija, yiitya, or naimiltika, must be performed like otlier 
Actions, without the Hope of Fruit, onthusiasdcally, and 
with an ecpiable frame of mind ; and thereaf ter, He has 
explained the doctrine laid down by the Gita by saying 
that (i) although the varioms matters in the wo 'ki, such as, 
karma, karta, Imddhi etc., may bo diverse as a result of the 
difference of qualities, yet, the mttvika quality if^ the best of 
all; that (ii) in performing, unattachcdly, all i.he Actions, 
which have befallen anybody on account c f his own- 
status, according to the foiir-class-aiTangoment, one thereby 
sacrifices to, and performs the worship of, tlie Paramesvara 
and thereby gradually acciiiires the I-’aral rahman lor 
Release ; that (iii) no other practice nor Sami yasa in the 
form of Abandonment of Addon is necessary for obtaining 
Release ; and that (iv) by Karma-Yoga alone, ill states of 
Perfocti'Mi including Release arc to be had. Now the 
Blessed I.ord again and finally advises Arjui a to accept 
this path of Karma-Yoga—J 

(57) 'samnyasya (that is, having dedicated) all Actions to 
Me, mentally, and having become devoted to Mo, keep your 
mind always fixed on Me, taking shelter in the Yoga of 
(equable) lifeason. 

[The word ‘ bnddhi-yoga ’ (Yoga of Reason) hai appeared 
before already in Chapter 11 (3. 49); and there it has been 
interpreted to mean ‘the device of performing Actions 
without allowing one’s mind to he fixed on tl e Hope of 
Fruit ’, or, ‘ the eiiuable Reason ’. The same i neaning is 
intended in this place ; and this is only a repetition of the 
statement, in Chapter II, that Reason is bettar than or 
superior to Action. ‘ Karma-saifinyasa ’ is a so defined 
here as meaning, ‘ mentally (that is, not by the actual 
Abandonment of Action, but merely by the Mind) 
dedicating all Actions to Me ’; and the same idt a has been 





1202 


GITA-RAHASYA OR KARMA-YOG A 


arsiT %T^g»TTT^ sTr5?r% II ii 

§§ 5T f1 

fTr«-% f^gtSf'^ II II 

^oiT I 

it^s^ fcraf^ I 

?T5=Wre:3Tf^r JTTW II II 


rfHcT ^<or it= 5I7 ^#^n%ST l 
?Tf!WT?Trq?T ^Ttf^ ^«IR Sip:^?lf^ ^T^ewi: II II 
^ ^ll*iK<:4jra ii^lt^^icti *T4l I 

?i^3% rr«iT ^ ii ii 

expressed before in Chap. Ill (3. 20), and in Chap. V 
(5. 13)] 

(58) Fixing your mind on Me, you will, by My favour, 
conquer all difficulties in the shape of the beneficent or evil 
results of Actions. But, if you egotistically do not listen to 
Me, then (indeed) you will be lost. 

[ The effect of Egoism, mentioned at the end; of stanza 58, 
is now further explained. ] 

(59) Your egotistical belief that; “I will not fight”, is 
futile. Prakrti (that is, inherent nature) will compel you to 
do so. (60) O Son of Kunti 1 being bound by the Action in¬ 
herently natural to you, you will have to perform that, which, 
by Ignorance you do not wish to perform, you having become 
subject to another (that is, to your own Prakrti or inherent 
nature). (61) O Arjuna I the Tsvara, remaining in the 
hearts of all beings, agitates all beings by (His) Illusion, as 
though they were put into a machine. (62) Therefore, O 
Bharata 1 surrender yourself to Him whole-mindedly 1 By 
His favour, you will attain the highest tranquility and a 
permanent place. (63) Thus have I explained to you this 
Knowledge, which is a mystery of mysteries. Think over 
all this fully, and do what you think best. 



GiTA, TRANSLATION & COMMENTARY, CH. XVIII 1303 

[ The dependence or subjectivity in the matter of Action, 
of which the mysterious principle has been explained in the 
above stanzas, has been fully dealt with in (chapter X of 
the Glta-Rahasya, to which the reader is referred. 
Although the Atman is independent by itself, yet, if one 
considers the ordinary affairs of the world, that is, of 
Prakrti, it will be seen, that the Atman has no control over 
the Wheel of Action, which has been moving from times 
immemorial. Even if we may not wish them, aay, even if 
we may wish otherwise, hundreds and thousaiids of things 
are going on in the world ; and either the results of their 
activity are felt by us, or we ourselves have to perform 
some part of that activity, and cannot say no. In these 
circumstances, the wise man performs these Actions, 
.keeping his mind pure, and looking upoi pain and 
happiness as alike : whereas, the fool gets enti.ngled in the 
bonds of those Actions: this is the important difference 
between the behaviour of the two. The Blessed Lord has 
mentioned already in Chap. Ill, that “ all created beings 
conform to their inherent nature, no amount tf determina¬ 
tion is of any avail ” (Gl. 3. 33). In these circumstances, 
all that the Science of Release, or Ethics, ca n say is that 
one should not become attacihed to Actio n Thus far, 
I have considered the matter from the Metapl ysical point 
of view. But, even from the point of view of Devotion, 
Prakrti or Nature, is only a part of the Isvara. And, 
therefore, the same proposition has been repeated in stanzas 
hi and 63, by giving credit for all Action io the Isvara. 
All the activities, which go on in the world, are got done 
by the Paramesvara, just as Ho wants them to be done. It 
is, therefore, proper that a wise man should abandon Egoism 
and surrender himself entirely to the Paramelvara. It is 
true that in stanza 63, the Blessed Lord has said, “ do what 
you think best ”; but, the meaning of that is very deep. 
Since no evil desire remains when the mind re iches a state 
of complete equability, whether by Knowledge or by 
Devotion, the ‘ Freedom of Will ’ of such a sclent can never 
prejudicially affect either him or the world. Therefore, the 
true meaning of those words is ; “ when you have Realised 



1204 


GlTA-RAHASYA OR KARMA-YOGA 


f^sf% ^ crm ^ f|rR n ^8 n 
JT5=*RT w( TT^r4i w i 

JTmt^% ^ srfd^r^ f^?TTS% ^ u ii 

iRit^ 33 t i 

3Ti rm m i> « 

this Knowledge (mniTSya), you will be self-enlightened ; and 
thereafter (not before), whatever Action may be voluntarily 
performed, by you, will be consistent with morality, and 
correct; and when you have thus reached the state of a 
Sthitaprajha, it will no more be necessary for you to 
control your Desire ”. To proceed ; I have shown at the 
end of Chap. XIV of the Gita-Rahasya that Devotion has 
been given a higher place than Knowledge in the Gita. 
Consistently with this proposition, the Blessed Lord now 
summarises the entire doctrine of the Gita in terms of 
Devotion—] 

(64) 1 shall once more give you a linal admonition, which 
is the mystery of all mysteries, to which listen. You are 
extremely beloved of Me ; and therefore, I am going to tell 
you something, which is to your advantage. (65) Keep your 
mind fixed on Me, become My devotee, offer sacrifice or 
worship to Me, and offer reverence to Me ; (thereby) you. 
will come and be merged in Me ; this truth I am imparting to- 
you as an absolute certainty, (because), you are my beloved 
(devotee). (66) Give up all other religions, and surrender 
yourself to Me alone ; I will redeem you from all sin ; do- 
not be afraid 1 

[ Those commentators, who subscribe only to the Path of 
Knowledge, do not appreciate this summing up, which is in 
favour of Devotion. They, therefore, include ‘ adharma ’ 
(immorality) in ‘ dharma ’ (morality), and say (i) that this 
stanza conveys the same advice as that given In the 
Kathopanisad in the words: “give up m.:)rality and 
immorality, that which is done and that which is not yet 
done, the past and the future, and Realise the Supreme- 




GlTA,THANSLATION&COMMENTARY, CH.XVIII 1205 


Brahman beyoml all that ’’(Katha. 3. 14); and (ii) that it 
advisees one to surrender oneBolf to the Qualityless 
Brahman. The stanza from the Kathopanisad is also to be 
found in the description of the (^ualityless Brahman in the 
Mahabharata (San. 329. 40; 331. 44)‘, But. in both these 
places the two words ‘ morality ’ and ‘ imin rrality ’ have 
been distinctly mentioned, which is not thi case in the 
Gita. It is true that the Gita accepts thj Qualityless 
Brahman, and also propounds the doctrine that the (Quality- 
less Brahman is the super-excellent form o: the Parmn- 
esvara (Gi. 7. 24). Yet, as the Gita also maintains that the 
worship of the Perceptible is easy and excellent (12. 5), and 
as the Blessed Lord is here referring to liis <n'm perceptible 
form, f am firmly of opinion that tlris summing up 
supports the Path of Devotion. Needless to say, the 
Quality less Brahman is not intended here: ind the word 
* diuirinu’ used here must be understood to mean, the 
religion of Harmlessness, the religion of Truth, the religion, 
of Service of one’s parents, the religion of Stsrvice of one’s 
preceptors, the religion of performing sacrilici il ritual, the 
religion of Charity, the religion of Renuncial ion, and other 
ways of reaching the Paramosvara, whici have been 
mentioned in the Scriptures. And, where the f ubjeot-matter 
has been discussed in the Santi])arva (San, 3‘.4), and in the 
Anu-Gita (Asva. 49), in the Mahabharata, these ways of 
obtaining Release have been referred to oy the word 
‘ dhanna’. But, the Blessed Lord definitely says in this 
place, with reference to the religion enunciated by the 
Gita, that Arjuna should not concern himse f with these 
various religions, but should “ surrender yourself to Me 
alone, I will redeem you, do not be afraid ” (see Gi. Ra. 
Ch. XIII, pp. 616-618). In short, the Blessed Lord, giving 
the advice nominally to Arjuna, but really to everybody, 
says that one should be deeply devoted in Him, and. 
becoming engrossed in Him, perform all Actions, which 
becomii one’s duties, according to one’s own status, with a 
Reason devoted to Him; and that, thereby, one will 
acquire benefit not only in this life, hut ah o in the next. 
This is what is known as KARMA-YOGA ; and this is the. 





1206 


GITA-RAHASYA OR KARMA-YOGA 


^ 51 ^ *Tr II %'S II 

^ ’iT*T gii I 

^|fh Rl^ ^c«|| II II 

!T ?TW?JTg«^ fqq f; -d*<: i 

JT ^ cTw^ui m?icTtt gf^ II %% II 

§§ ?T ??T 'sfr^ ^cn?^iraq i ; i 

^r^fiig: h n so n 

^ STP I 

^TSN grTT. Ml<-»J^lr!iU^*4anH II <> 

•sum and substance of the Gita-religion. The Blessed Lord 
now explains how to maintain and keep alive the tradition 
of this Gita-roligion, that is, of the Karma-Yoga based on 
Knowledge, and in which Devotion is the most important 
factor—] 

(67) Do you never mention this (mystery) to anybody, 
who does not perform austerities, who has no devotion, nor 
a desire to hear it, nor to one who vilifies Me. (68) He, who 
■expounds this highest mystery to My devotees, will be 
filled with intense devotion towards Me, and will eome and 
•reach Me ; about this, there is no doubt. (69) And no one 
can be found among all men, wdro does something more dear 
to Me, than such a man ; and no one will be more beloved 
of Me than him in this universe. 

[ In continuation of this advice, given with the intention 
of maintaining the tradition of the Gita, the Blo.ssed Lord 
now explains the beneficent effects of following the 
Gita-religion— ] 

(70) Whoever meditates on this conversation of us two 
on religion, will be considered by Me as having worshipped 
Me by a Sacrifice of Knowledge. (71) In the same way, he 
who follows this religion without carping, and with Faith, 
he also will be redeemed from all sin, and reach the 
happiest spheres, which are in store for saintly people. 



GITA, TRANSLATION & COMMENTARY, OH. XVIII1207 


§§ fcit^iijnT %cTOT I 

spns^^ i« >1 

3T^ 3^"^ 1 

rTrSJMI1l?*I?nS^5!T 

T^‘'£r?itsf^ era »» 


1T3I?T 1 

§§ fr^ri qT«i^?T ^ fT^rfJRl I 

5?rarffTHw#5nfT^ n ^8 n 

[In this way, the advice is over. Now, in Jrder to find 
out wh(jther or not Arjuna has properly understood this 
religion, the Blessed I^ord asks him— ] 

(72) O Partha 1 have you listened to all this, with a con¬ 
centrated mind ? (and) O Dhananjaya ! has youi confusion, in 
the shape of Ignorance, now been totally destroyed ? 
Arjuna said ;—(73) O Unfallen One I by Your lavour has my 
ignorance been destroyed; and I have regained memory 
(of my duties) ; I am (now) free from doubt; I shall now do 
(fight) as told by You I 

[Those, who have got the traditional idea thidthe Glta- 
religion advises the Abandonment of family life, have, 
without the slightest justification, stretched ti e meaning 
of the last, that is, of the 73rd stanza. If we consider of 
what Arjuna had lost memory, we see that in Chapter II, 
he has said: “my mind does not understand what my 
‘dhartna' or my duty is” { cf. “ dhanna saimnUd.ha cetah” 
and the plain meaning of the above stanza is, that he has 
now remembered that duty. As the Gita has been told 
in order to induce Arjuna to fight, and the Blessed Lord 
has, in various places, said; “Do you, therefere, fight!” 
(Gl. 2. 18; 2. 37; 3. 30; 8. 7; 11. 34), the words “I shall now 
do as told by You”, can only moan, “I .shall fight”. 
To proceed: the conversation between Sri Krsna and Arjuna 
is now over; now, with reference to the narral ion in the 
Mahabharata, Sanjaya, having narrated tbit story to 
Dhrtarastra, summarises his own narration— J 
Sanjaya said :—(74) In this way, I heard this wonderful and 



1208 


gita-raeasya oe karma-yoga 


=?Trasr^r?r^5|rTSTT%rTpm5 I 

^r»T ^r5T5^?:rrfjGiiTTr^r^R[ gjaisjcr* ii n 

hair-raising conversation between Vasudeva and the noble- 
souled Aijuna. (75) By the fovour of Vyasa, I was enabled 
to hear this mystery of mysteries, that is, Yoga,—(of course, 
the Karma-Yoga),—when Sri Krsna, the Lord of all Yoga 
Himself was personally expounding it. 

[It has been stated in the beginning of the Gita, that as 
Vyasa had^given super-natural vision to Sahjaya, he could, 
.sitting in his own place, see in reality whatever was 
happening in the l)attl(!-field; and that he used to repeat 
everything he saw to Dlirtarastra. The Y(.)ga, expounded 
by Sri Krsna was nothing but the Karma-Yoga (Gi. 4. 1-3); 
and Arjuna himself has referred to it before (Gi, 6. 33), 
as ‘Yoga’ (the Yoga of Equability); and now, Sanjaya 
also refers to the convonsation- between Sri Krsna and 
Arjuna in this stanza as‘Yoga’. From this, it becomes 
clear that Karma-Yoga is the subject-matter of exposition 
in the Gita, according to the opiniou.s of Sri Krsna and 
Arjuna, as also of Sahjaya; and the expression ( sa/hicalpa ) 
used to denote the end of the chapter at the end of every 
chapter also contains the word “//opa-sa.sfra ”. But the 
word ‘Yoga’, in the phrase ‘Yogesvara’ is more comprehen¬ 
sive, The ordinary meaning of the word ‘Yoga’ is ‘the 
device of, or the skill or proficiency in, performing any 
Action and in thl,s sen.ge, the hahurUpi (one who shows 
many appearances) is said to perform his personifications 
by Yoga, that is, by skill. But, if one considers what is 
the best way in which Action can be performed, one has 
to say, that the way by which the Paramesvara, Who is 
essentially Imperceptible and Qualityless, gives Himself 
a perceptible appearance is the best ‘Yoga’ or device. This 
is referred to in the Gita as the ‘IsvarJ-Yoga’ (Gi. 9. 5; 
11.8); and this is what is known as ‘Maya’ or ‘Illusion’ 
in Vedanta ( Gi. 7. 25 ), For that man, who has success¬ 
fully acquired this wonderful and unequalled Yoga, all 
other Yogas or devices are mere child’s play. The 
I’aramesvara is the Over-Lord of all these Yogas, or 



eilTA, 'mANSLATION&CXJMMENTARY, Oi:.XVIII 1209. 


rT3^ ^r* I 

f%^ii2Tr iT^rq; i^im ^ 3^* 3fT* i n 
^TiT ^G«irT qi-ar ’^5'4r* I 

«frf^^r »jfH'|5TT 1119C 1 

device!^: that in why Ho has heoii referrec to as the 
‘Yogesvara ’, or tlu; ‘fjord of Yogas’, 'I'ho wonl ‘Yoga’ in the 
phra.so ‘ Yogoavara’ does not iiulicato the Patah jala-Yoga.] 

(76) O King Dlirtarastra ! rcniciiilicring tliia i nprccedcnted 
and holy conversation between Kesava a id Arjuna, I 
experience joy over and over again. (77) And O King! 
thinking of tliat most wonderful Cosmic-]'onn of the 
Blessed Lord, I am filled with astonishment, t.nd again with 
joy. (78) And, in my opinion, wherever there is Sri 
Krsna, the Lord of all Yoga, aiul the bow-hdder Arjuna, 
there also will be found Wealth, Victory, Eteri al Prosperity, 
and Morality. 

[ In .siiort, tlio doetrino enunciated here is, t iat wherever 
skill is combined with power, thero do both rdd/i (prosperity) 
and Mddiu (succes.s) take up their permanent aix de; and that, 
mere skill, or mere power is not enough. W ien the way,s 
and means of killing darasaihdha were being considei-ed, 
Yudhisthira said to Sri Krsua: "andham oala/h jacfui'n 
ftrahuh praaetdri/n/'n virtikftumdh" (Sal)ha. 20. 16), that is, 
“power is blind, and material; the wise mu si show it the 
way”. Thereupon, theBle,s.seil Lord, saying: “nui fi nitir balam 
b]t.tni<d\ (Sabha. 20. 9), that is, “ I am the store ( f diplomacy 
and Bhima, that of strength”, has taken Bhiiaa-sena with 
Himself and skilfully brought about the death of Jara- 
samdhaby his (Bhima’s) hands. The one, who merely gives the 
diplomatic advice, may be looked upon as only halBwiseg 
Therefore, the word‘v/Of/escam’means the ‘Ijt rd of Yoga, 
or skill and the word ‘ (Ifuvnurdhara ' means ‘ the lighter’, 
and both these adjectives have been used here ii tentionally,] 

This will be coicstnied as a dopreoiatory reference to the 
Blessed Lord Sri Krsiia, wliich is, indeed, unfortunate.—Trans. 








The central pari of the huge funeral procession of the author. 

The tody Is seen carried opposite the sign board on the right on the building. 
















ih mds at ^hew0,ii mks^ si Ssmbif 8fi 
iLo jMecomoanyiRB fufi^f§t €fSWS: 





1210 


gita-rahasya or karma-yoga 


s(^Ryfqf 

JTT^T^rwjft ^ 

3TlT^S«n^ ; II \c II 

Thus ends the eighteenth chapter named Moksa-Samnyasa 
Yoga in the dialogue between Sri Krsna and Arjuna on the 
Yoga included in the Science of the Brahman (that is, on the 
Karma-Yoga) in the Upanisad sung (that is, told) by the 
Blessed Lord, 

[ It raugt be borne in mind that the word ‘ sanmyasa ’ in 
the phrase ' moksn-samnijasu-yoya means the ‘ sathnyasa or 
Renunciation of Desire-prompted Action’; and not ‘the' 
state of an ascetic which is the fourth stage of life. As 
it has been propounded in this chapter that Release is 
obtained by mentally making a Saihnyasa or Renuncia¬ 
tion of one's prescribed Actions, in favour of the Param- 
esvara, instead of by abandoning them, this chapter has 
been named ' Moksa-Sarhnyasa-Yoga J 
IN THIS WAY 
THE 

RAHASYA-SAi^JlVANA 

being the translation, into the Marathi vernacular, of the 
Srimad Bhagavadgita, together with the commentary on 
it, written by Bal Gangadhar Tilak, comes to an end. 

In the Maharastra, in the town of Poona, there lives 
one, who was born in a Brahmin family, and is devoted to the 
Srutis, whose name is BAL, and who is the son of 
GANGADHARA, and whose surname is TILAK; and he 
has, by publishing the RAHASYA of the GlTA in the year 
1837, of the Saka era, dedicated it to the LORD of ^RT.* 

OM TAT SAT BRAHMAR PANAM ASTU 
SaNTIH pustiS TUSTIS CASTU. 

SRl INDIRA’RPANAM ASTU t 

* The above dedication is in Marathi verse in the original— 
Trans. 

f This is my dedication (see Vol. I p. xxsvii). —Translator. 




An index of the stanzas of the 
GiTA 

showing the first quarter of each stanza, by reference 
to the chapter and the stanza. 




Btanza-bB'^iniiing 

Ch. 

St, 

Sta iiza-begi nn ir g 

Oh. 

St. 




31VTH >gflfiTf^ rri 

ti 

n 


I'S 



t 

v-'i 


<c 





3T 



atfbr^Jft 

<2 

V 

3T'^T% xrrf^ 

9 


atfvjq^: w.n =sUrf 

<2 


3t^T sT§i 

C 


aif-Tgrii fraiT qsfTT 


IV 

3i^TTcnm=fir?tsT% 

?o 

I 

rt j 

at'-qtcirgrqf^ijq^ 


T ■» 


C 

Vf I 

3t^:$574^ q- i»q 


\so 



! 

! ai?i<Tf?tn4 ?rai 

t 

■i^ 

atsttsfcr ^T’Sfsw^Fri 

« 


I atsiciwtftfr iimist! 

to 



« 

< « 

1 at^1s>T^cIT: tT5T;s 

( 

«2 

iv 


<2 


! JTi 



?i^r 

'<a 


' ^ 

3T?rW; 


n 

airl^fcT T 



atvtTf^cqif^goRgrr'i; 



3i?f 


V 

3T^rf?tftqTH*in^^ mw 

tt 

'1'*. 

3T«I %*T U^Tfits^ 



! 



atar 1%=^ ?^iTT^rg 






atu vr*4 


U 


t'S 


gjq ^5T 

9 


sig^'g ^®f ft?n 

Xc 


aarai^T q>fjTJfTJr^ 


■o'< 


X^ 


3i«f;rr 

to 



XX 

1^: 

3IST a^l^feliTrrfHr 

t 

O 


XI 

1“ 


t’ 

It 

awr^^fct ajfnfn 


'IV 


tt 

■rf'y 

J 3tsq ^ q-fq-: ’a;^T 

X 


=5r^r;i- 



1 3l?% ?qgTT3tT5i?r: 

1 

x^ 


fr^^cJTJrt 



3jq? 

8 

V 



2 


GlTA-RAHASYA OR KARMA-YOGA 


Stanza-beginning 

Ch. 

St. 1 

stanza-beginning 

Ob, 

St- 


8 

1 

3rRTRg%: Raa 

?<: 

v*. 


^9 


RR%?af»j5aa: 





'io , 

RRcaRsfae a 


£ 

am 

8 


RRi Rar fa: Rf : 


V'f 

g{fa %?g5<T=3r?t 

9 

i 

RRaarcRar ata: 



stfq arava: 

8 


RRRa Rfiar^ 


Va 

sra^r^ftssrfma’ 

?8 

n 

R^ar^ g fafiisr a 


vs 


I'S 

■i'l , 

Rff ^gft 


'i^ 

aftvra 


'I 

Rf^r? aR ga 



sjfirHRra g 



i Rf ^R aR ga 

\c 

■as 



c. 

; Rcnrmr gaT%R 

lo. 

■^o 



*1«> 

! Rf aRR^t ^;ar 



»iaif^?aagf*T5a 

n 

vs 

1 Rf Ra^a avia: 

?0 

c 

sra> ^ 

n 


Rf ff Raa^raf 





RftRr RaiRt^a: 



'3 Rag 

\ 

ll 1 

RtfRi RRar gffe: 

\o 


Rafa: ^T'f^aa: 


^vs; 

R^ aa Rf eara 

? 

V'A 

ar^Tfi: aif a; ^aa-a: 
sraarafa rt Jjar: 

u- 

\ c 

'tl 

RRRisrgaraa 

3TT 

8 

iSQ 

Rar^aarai^ af a; 

=? 

3^ ; 

RraaT% r ^ Rarg^ 


30 

g af|^ 


HVJ ' 

Rraiar: fw?: gar: 

? 

3 V 

Rfaa^ ar 



RT®it sfiiRaaraf^R 


3'', 

Rsaasrfif^r ^arf^ 

9 

\C 

RrfRRRrf%ar: Risar 


"tvs 

wtsaaira^'^^: 

<S 

i 

RRRrav^a R^a 


3^3 

RsaTRts^r? ^'g^; 

< 

1 

! 

RTf^arraiR# fa^g: 

?0 


aRaTFtsaRf%?aVsa 


^'A 1 

RrgaRMRRRafM 

9 

VJO 

srsaTii safeRrw 



Ria§ivjaai#=BT: 


33 

sRiraif^fla 


^ j Rifararirt 


'■ii 

sRTt^ra?9Rfta??a 

t 

3 1 ; 

Rig: RsaaRrftia 




% 


Ri^^^gaafa 


3 

R«raar fa ga 


; 

Riga ^laRaa 


3^ 

R«a5a: R^g^cat 

\o 

’.s : 

RianaiRRaagr; 


3^ 



INDEX OF STANZA-BEGINNING5 


3 


Stanza-beginning 

Ch. 

St. 

stanza-beginning 

Ch. 

St. 


P 


i 3ffl5rf^v3flTait 


VV 

qtfjfTTT<T^r 



1 7?^^V%3ff^^ ?^I^r 



srrfr^^jsrfr 


\i 

. a-^T^r: 


■ic 

arrpj^f^S'T??.- 

?0 

't^ 

i 3-^r4t5T^'rra'V^: 

^8 


f 





E 

?^r^»Tfrg??JJr 


3_ \3 

! ^'r^srsg^rTr ^ 






I ^ 



^ffT gUrTH 5TI^ 

?s 


' iTESfsfr fTiW^sjr:- 

?a 


?% H ^r^Trr^^rrn 






ff?r ?Tsir ^rrsi 







U 

M.O 

; ^f7m^|v7r iM 


V 


%< 

vjV 

' i^rT^^i cT'gq %5TW 



Ti?Tr 


n 


'4'*. 

%k g ^ gtr^Tri 

•i 

'i 

' ^[rnfn 


5 

^ srrctq^-^t^T 

\c 


i »?fTSH ?i5T?T f CUT 


5t 

5rdt ^'ra’T 

U 


' tCtrfw ^-5i???55rftT 



^t?ig[q-i^;rf*r 


s 

rrfTt??Tf7 g ^irrf^ 




> 


‘ war 

j 


t 

^f?^'7i<iif =;j^vTf 

t 


E^t ^In ^ 


v» 

?f^?nfoT q?TO?TT^: 


v^ 

^ r^t* ^.*y 

Efrr^rgTT;: q;ra^ 



^%?TTfDT i?5tI f 1 %;; 


Q 


? 

'<'f 




E^rg^'-Trs^a: 

? 



a 

■I 

E'7g^=ar a?ft ?rjr^ 


t 

fsi-wlnn?f ^t 



‘ E^g^-at s'?t%5T 


* 




-a 


3 

A fvp f 

arToifr: ?Tn; 


It 

EE 

8 

3 

r 

? 



EE aafrta ^5 r 


v; 



■ 

Ea gff%vjf a^r; 

a 





EE 5 %;: "Jf fE^EI 



3'%:%TTOfr-*?T5IT 


■5 ts 

EE k 


1 

^■rJBrJT^ ^ftsfq 


^ 0 

EE sTI'ai fJE SFir 

a 

IE 


V^ 

-'. 

EEI Esra%ai *ITE^ 

B 

-1 



4 


GITA-RAHASYA or KARMA-YOGA 


Stanza-beginning 

Gh. 

St. 

Stanza-beginning 

Cb. 

St. 

tTTsI 


V»^ 

1% 4;ir 

8 

‘ ^ 




i f%fi?:gi f^iTtRrrff 

<: 

4 




RS^m^rorr: go^rr 

% 

U 

TI«T 

?c 

V»^ 

nf^?r =g5Bf??r 

1% 


=p3^»^5!rgoiI?5«iJI 



%^Vf2^ irf^iT R^OT ^ 

n 

Iv, 

5^ %?TJT?rfrfw: 



^fr?Rr 





If 

1 ROI^^TR 

\ 

Vo 


^0 

ivs 

^q?Tr T??Tr^^ 

\ 


i%3^r ff 

»? 

Ht 


u 

vv 


?« 


%flrti^?5iJir^fTiq; 

^8 








srfr m^s^r 

8 

Iv. 

^54 TTI^JTnJT: R'J 



q-; 

8 

'M 



H 


? 

VnA 

JT 







8 


4;?f^^TTf^ ?TqTJr 



1 n)%»T?TT JT’^: 


^c 

5p^^cr: 5rt)?^sr 



1 mo^qr 


?o 

5?ri7fiT55TrR?ar? 

<; 

't 

1 ni5Frrr%5^R ^friOr 

^<4 





■ 50 IRrTRfftr?f 3ltq; 

?8 


4Jrw' 



TTfigviT^Tq: ^ 

\ 


'A 





^ITTTlfVfiiT 


1'' ! 

1 

ff jffi: ^5'JT 


XV 

^FTwrcHTH: 


HI : 

^ggfivqT it: 

V9 



V9 

i 

Tf^T 

8 

xx 

5f>T»^iRT Epfloli !=qrw 


’ i 

f^Tfl'Tf^frm R 


X*! 

45T^^ *T!TtTr f^-SIT 


'R i 

%ftHT ^t^^urfin 


<A^\i 


5? 

X4 i 






1 

^sflT^w ^ It 

8 

% 


l<^ 

t j 


V9 

\\ 


%l 

3-. 

ft w^t 




1 

T\j I 

f^?rf?;TST: Jl5rR?«T 




8 

V. 

5«Tr?r?ft %?^qT<nR 


=1 



INDEX OF STANZA-BEGINNINGS 


5 




Stanza-beginning 

Ch. 

St. 

Stanza-beginnin 5 

Ch. 

St. 



"^vs 

R^RI^fRe^^Tfra 

tvs 

’.V 

cT 



R^Rra?! RffRrrt 



3 rTsur 



R^Rrar?'r rr it 



?j?r: ^TcqTTJrrfnnrs^ 


"(f 

eRR RRRR^ f R 

\ 

'iFl 



VJ\S 

j RTR? f^fRR:^?IR; 


It 

^TcT: 


n 

j RtfR RRrf^ RRJR 



5r?T: 


u 

I g^Rra^i^gfRRfisft 


'i". 



’)'<! 

: R5i:^Rr 'af^: ^fra 



TT?T^r^ 



' R R gfcRr raRi^fe* 






! RRFR? Rf^Rr 


\S 

era OiTf^raTfi; 



: ^r^RigcfiRFR 


'i'l 

erara^^ff^^^ifTrsai^: 

t 


1 RRT RRRgRJTRT 

to 

I® 


?? 


' ^T fRcRgR) 

vs 

v« 

cra^fifET JT^Tifrar 



I raR'RF ^4’^RrRR 

a 


ett^ ?Tf^ ^'efr? 


V. 

1 rariR RtRRf^5R% 


t 

eT7$?r ^ qrt^^ 


3 

.£v ^ ^ 

ranrguRRRrR: 

vs 

n 

cr%?i5ifvrHwr?r 



, f^fRRF RRf^ ?Tg;f 

tvs 

Ft 



<)\i 

R?R5?R^ 


FCl 

RfoiRRIR 

a 

v*< 

’ RgogfRRRr Ri?r 


i'*. 




i %raRr RT RtRRT; ’-pRIRF % 


eIRrrafJT? RR 



?RR^? RTR RI^RS T 

\l 

')4 


?8 

1 

?RRrf^%R: g^R: g^ iR: 

ll 


erg^ra 

s 

1" 

1 




RRR 5ROT 

?c 


^€t ^RRRrRf^R 

1° 


R :^HRrR 



^Rt ^RT5rRRIR«r 


'i 

RRFR ^ 


1 

1 

^resR^rfR =R R garf^r \\ 

Ft^ 

R^RIeR'JRR Rfai^rrR^FR 


vv ■ 

^FRSRfRf^ R^FR 

tvs 

So 

R^RlT^IRf^gJURr^T 


V3 1 

f^f% gRR^^R 



R^RI^^gfRR RRt^R^g 

?? 

u 1 

r^raRT«RiR?R? 


'll 

R^RTeR^g 

<s 

'» i 

5:FRfR?RR Re^R 



R’ERI^RRi: ReTR 



5:#ragfpTRRr: 



R^Rr^^RRgjT 

8 


^iR STR? R5R 


v*. 




6 


GITA-RAHASYA or KaRMA-YOGA 


stanza-beginning 

Ch. 

St. 

Stanza-beginning 

Ch. 

St. 

r 3 

9 


ST 

5? 




n't 

ST ^T^^ fk«T% ^r ^ 




TV 

ST cT^f% ^r'^sqt cfr 


v* 



1=1 

ST cISIiSST^ ^jsrf 





n 

ST 3 STT 5T^si& ^i 


£ 




ST 3Trg sttw 


•^'i. 


a 

■-.A 

ST leaf SBfT 

^.c 

•^.O 

Ir^r juifr^ft 


v>( 

ST ST^C^frq-JT Hr^ST 

'A 





^ 3t;t4si 








S'# 

?inrfif^smK5[HaT ff 

u 


STTT: gT^rir^si 


•fa 

sm 

Ck 

?o 


ST J?r CTifoi 

a 

')'# 


a 


ST HI Si3r: 




? 

u j 

ST H q'f8ii% ^4s4 



^(fr =g ift'stT ^ 


v^ : 

'T H fkg- gTSiorr: 



?ff%ffr g^7r 5yi% 


1^ i 

H Sgmnf^^f rT4t<T55¥?I^ 



fr ijjr^jn'r 



ST ^T% 


'iC 




ST^ 


\s^ 

vTH^r^ f 


■T : 

] 

ST f|- spfkf^umfq 



?rf^^sTT f':^: 

< 


ST ff sj^r 5 t^4 

?c 

'll 

^^5Tlfk?T% : 



ST % nq^Hlfil HHI 13 ?irs^ 5? 

# 

^%g^Rs?rrJi: 


A 

j ST % ^RST ?I?5a 

a 





STTsft5T?5T HST f^S^TTSTT 

to 

Vo 

^54)% 



sii5?[HrT^g srin'isf^ 



';qt^4V f^^qrfgtr: 



STT^% ^?sii^5qr4 



ST 



Slts4 ^liivsi: ^STR 

ta 

■iA 

?! ST ^rrifoi 


1-f 

1 siTHtfr f4?l% HT^f 


n- 

ST ^HiTIWSTT^STrfJ: 


V 

1 sTiflrTgi'^iTgTR^si 



ST f4^4 ^>501 


21^ 

srrt Ji^r5i; 

V9 


51 =gf ^T^HiPng^qg 



STIf STTHT 

tt 


ST =3 TTs?«Trfsr ^rfk 



iHrsixTriH' =sr q^irrfH 

t 


ST TTT cirfsr qiRTfoi 



f^sr^r^EST 3 hsstth: 

tc 

\s. 




INDEX OF STANZA-13EGINNIX3S 


7 


Stanza-beginning 

Oh. 

St. 

' Stanza-beginning 

Ch. 

St. 

-Sir 


c 

■ g qs^fR 

tC 




'"A 

qq?r5T q qff% q 

t« 



» 


q^r^ S^q %q 

t^ 

n 

fHJTRJTtgT T^rTffniftqr 



q|5f^ ^qrqqei-q 


6 

Rrar^r 5T<3 ^ 


Y 

q^jq: f^qJTIoTlfq 


'-^vs 

i^r^Trej^; 



qijqqqqgqr: 


'•F<> 

^fTRr^ER^r^frsi^FT 


Yo 


t^ 

■<'«> 

’TrsJ 


H'* 

qsfgrrfq qqr ^rqn^ 




«? 

\} 

qqRfqqqrq^g 




't 

C 

qqr'JT^Etw qqRisq^q 

C 

to 

rT??T 15^?ir8|r 


T-: 

qc5rqf^q^3i?JJ5;^ 


»> 

»T 



sr^R q fq^f^ q 

t"t 

vs 

7%rTrffi JT^rsir^ 

t<c 

15 

qgfq q fq^f^ q 

t<- 


g'Jlj t}v^ rft^ 

% 

\% 

qsqryqqqfi |jq 



T^^^fTlTT 

'A 

c 

5^<» 

qtitqrfqr t%qqqr 

|S 

TV 

<T? 351 >TT gr;? 

to 

%\ 

qqt^ frq^tqrqr 



^ 1 : 5 : ifn^^rfir 

la 

1 

qrrsrqeqrftq V’Tr tt 

?s 


'Tr^rurq' 

8 

£. 

qi'-.q g*»q^qT#? ^ 


YT 

7Wfr: 'T^PTFirf^H' 

to 

?1 

g 



TT TrsJ T^q-fFlT 

tt 


qr^ q^qqrqf^JT 

<3 

11 

<T^?Trt^rJiT??T?j;?^r;3^ 

tt 


qfciqjq gqiqr 

u 

1H 

TSiJTffii ^;ii?TT^T 

tt 

1'^ 

qf qt qsqqrqpq 

3 

I'*. 

Tff s^rrotr 

t 

t 

qffq q sqq?qrfq 

8 

H 

'TfST %%?■ STIW^ 


V w 

qgTFqrssfqq^q? T 


% 


t 


qrsi^qTf'qqqjr-qj 


’ll 


tt 


qr q^gqrqi 


1» 

r^rsfq^q 


Is* 


0 

*^0 

30 ?Tt nv7; qfqsqi q 



fi^^qqHqVf: 

to 

V 

g^; % 


^.1 

1 

t<i 


g^q: fT qr: qrq 

c 

•3^-) 

1 f^qr fq^^qr g-’K: 

tc 

M 

g^tqqr q g^q qr 

to 


i ffT'Rrq qqr qi^rf 

to 


t^qrvqr^q qqq 

5 

VY 

1 quoit qi^Bisr 

t 8 






8 


GITA-RAHASYA or KARMA-YOGA 


Stanza-beginning 

Ch. 

St. 

; Stanza-begirning 

Gh. 

St. 

spHrfSr 


1“ 

; urn =gT?if*iqt?rH 


V 




; H^ifoT ^RrfoT 



^Ui'f'ir aru ff%: 

a 


, JT^ft ^ m 




?c 

v-i 

' qrv} 

VS 





flzq^ JTJT SlTvq?^ 


6 





?o 

% 

¥rf?«TT TIir|f»T^r^Tf^ 


^’A 

, JTl-qfoit 

la 

H'A 

iTJTr^oif^qif^T ^ 


^'A 

JTfrEFrrR^g^TT qrs| 

% 



? 

c 

j W?TVij?TT??TfEEr?t 


'A 

fc ^?Tr^T 

U 


^ irt ^ aiVs3q'f»T=g^ 






■ HT t sqvsrr ITT ^ 

11 

yA 

^jjwrar: h <5^rET 

c 

“iA 

^ TTrstr^'Rrr^g 


TV 

crrg: 


'<( 

TfRTqRT;T?Tt5g5?T: 

la 

'^'A 

3FTft?IT^ 



irrgqEq gqi^siT 

c 

'i'A 

qgRqfiT 



Jtf % qr4 sErqrTf^Pi 


lA 



'€'i 

ij g^Rff^rtsH^r^ 

ic 


ff 



, g^arrl'JTrfflrEfT 

^vs 

tA 


?c 

'AC 

: ¥T4??iarif 

lo 


JTf^TtT ns^sir’iir: 

^0 

A 

i wt^rrqri RV^rapum: 





'A'A 

1 ^ 



<T?^r? JTTPqq; 


\s 

^ 'T’f’T 5^ 

?<: 


*T^rr5T?T qqar 

U 


1 n qsi %Rt frfrq 


TA 


I'a 


^ <5^ ^r% 



JTg^^Tmt ?Tf ^ 

vs 

X 

^WTiq ^rtgjrriit 

?0 

U 

^'iT^ir 


VC 


U 

y^ 

UPRSIT ^TET 

?c 

^"A 

; ?TTR^^r 

Ivs 

y 

qrs'ETR 


V 

?T3^[farr ST gsrm^g 

a 

I'A 

JTJT ^f^JTf?:§r 

?a 


qRaV irfq 


S'* 

JT^iarr^ 


\s 

ETtT: SIff%%rRT 


ys 

JT^rr 

% 

y 

ETa%?Tfr;Ttf%: 

'A 

AC 

JT5Tr«?t$aT at^flr; 

% 

')'> 

?T?i> 


AS 


n 

yvs 

^Tfat 'TtfnsT^srg 

I'A 

TT 



INDEX OF STANZA-BEGINNINC-S 


9 


Stanza-beginning 

Ch. 

St. 

Stanza-beginnins; 

Gh. 

St. 




«igrf^»jf4iTc?iT4 



T%qr*T^ 

?c 

^vs 

^^^44 5f q^4f4 


ic 


?c 


^fqr g •q4^rw*Tfg 

X<^ 





vx4?t^ 4 =q 

^c 


?i^3cgT^r?r4 

X'S 

'<'1 

z(m ^1:4 vt4 

?c 


?^?rrfr% 



4 4 qifq ?JT??vfr4 

c 


^siTt 

\c 

vsc 

4 p.st^r ^rq? ^rw 

\ 


f%=fr 


^«> 

4 4?qr?qfflf4 qT;|: 

\ 


?T5t?i’s%: Iir’:q4 ^S!ri4 


^ 

4 f4 vf 5^^444 



^sTr^r5TrW4t f4c4 




\\ 

-=(1 

^*Tr ^41 r%i?r?T?6T> 


■iS 

»?4sTiqrq?4?: 



«TSTr 



q?cqt5q?f4>q ^qrg 

\ 

■^vs 

«r«Tr 


u 

1 ’q{^fq%qif4 Tf^ttr 

\ 

■vS 

sr^^H 3 ?i??4 >T4Tir: 



^r?jrp^T?jf4t4tsb:^ 

V\ 

'M 

q'srr ^4n44i5E*^r?i; 



q?irr54f43t4 ^tqit 



tT4T;?t5r%: 

» 


q^q qrrjqt qrqt 


I'J 

«r^»f ^54^1 ^ 



I q?q ^q Hmrqr: 

8 


^T^f^RJTrr%?r 

?< 


j q^^rqqq: ^^4 




c 

'i') 

j qgffirqiiaiqgqt 

8 

xi 




1 qgf%erf^q: 44r 


n 

?T^rf^??Tn4 '^41 



q^iqgqjqoTlssqq 



»j^i7«ri^f4 


\o 

q^ qq% ^rq q 



^^T •.qr45?T 

8 

VJ 1 

q(qqr4 qqT4 


To 

«T?r raf4?T4 f^4 


16 1 

qr fq^rr ^tq^jftrqT 



«r^r Ji^% 5 

?8 

i 

qn^qt gfsqrrr qiq 

\ 


45?4 "^(4 



qtq-qqjqq i4i{qq; 

\\ 


_. . r\ *'• rs V 

rf JTr^5rr^ig 


tf 

qrq^qnliO^sf 

\ 


?Tf^ TTriTST4I'q;rt 



qrqrqq q^^qrq 



^ ^44 



qffq 4qqar ^qfg. 



4IT7W 



qqi: 5F4q;55 ^qq^qr 



*TS«5r55r*T4get 

8 


qq5rfT?fqfr??q 


"1^ 

qsigr^f4 %re: 



^qrqpgisr f^qjRr 

? 





10 GITA-RAHASYA or KARMA-YOGA 


Stanza-beginning 

Gh- 

St. 

Stanza-beginning 

Oh. 

St. 



“iA 

?R7|Tqfqqq|?g 


%'€ 




?rq> 5R4q»^q'--g: 



^ %5r >TT^f 


n 


^<5 

\s«- 



H- 

qr3tfq?ir ^rsigir 


’I 

% g ?T^*rfaT ^H'rfSl 



^i?raiT ^q;?iqrf?q 

^0 





^^rf?5qr qnqr ?f q ?qT':^T \ \ 





^q wf% qfqqqqq 



^sciTPJT^^rcrr^Tfir 

% 





^ w iTHfir^ f^5JrJj; 



qpfqqfoT 

A 

^A 

^ ^«rr ?tt irq?ra 

8 

n't 

qqirrq: 

n 


^ 5;r^^f^g5Ti3q 



?!t%si'?eri?g-rq-4r ngr 



^qriT^ 5ptf%^ ?ft 

% 

U 

^•<fr: qgf^tRiT: 

ta 

r< 

tqr qtq 

\B 





^r f| ^?q?(T5ir ^iv 

'A 





fq^'iir^JTr 


\3 

qfgqf^q^q'q 


H 


8 


qqqrfSi q 'M'^nmi f?r!jt% 

5^'S 

?ftn^: f^ 


Vi 

qr^^msfjiq??!?!; 5(T5rrqJ: 

u 


5qK?(5Tr?Tfq 


vvs 

wr?ih% sftoTirq q-^r fqftq ^ 


^3fr?T ?T^TrT 



fq^Ilfqqq^q^ 

A 










't\> 

i%qTRq^ 

\< 

AA 

^s:?rT:g?^s?^r?Rrw 



firqqr TqRiq?f?q 


A\ 

^ HTIT5Willi% =51 

!o 

^ ; 

Brqqf^^qtr^niq; 



qV JTTfr^fTH^i.^ 


..i 

iq^>oir?qqr ^n 

t= 

V 

^ m q^^% 


X” 1 

fq^rq q;iqRq: Rq'iq; 

9 

vs I 

^ ^ ?Tt ^T frg vitR: 

V9 

; 

qlq?RTqq^qr 

8 

"lo 

qVs^ ^TTi^f^^rr ^tr: 



g's'ntqt qig^qtsf^ff 

\0 

^vs 




qqrqi qrqq^sflq 

\a 

A’ 

?5i^jT4?rf^^=q: 

^8 

q- 

qqrfqqT%q fq?q 



tsifn Ti?qr 


<1A 

^qqtqrf^ 

V9 


?^r ?mT;qq> fq^ 

^8 

\» 

qti^T.-g %q 

< 

R<: 


3 

c 

sqq^TTqrrqr^r |f^; 


Vi 




INDEX OF STANZA-BEGINNINGS 


11 


Stanza-beginning 

5^wsr¥rr^(5^=ri^ 

5T 

^T: ett 

5T%: 5H?T5rfl?i; 

STlft 

5tO? 

gigfs^r nrf> 

g=tr afjTgr’^^T 

?r5it ' 2 rrf^H'*T 

vrs,m T?^f 

«rf^f%Erf^T?rr ^ 

N9 

5r«Tr?^3^JT’’:)T?T5rri; 

f^irn: 

'O 

5rq-(?^5ra[w fsTiroi: 

sa 

=^1^: ^TSiT^ ^ 

-3 Tjsrm irqi ^saj- 
STCTW 

H ^t'?t v:ira5rfgraiT 
H?T?f ITT 

?T fTlTT ?T^qr 5 ^: 
TT?qirTTTfiT'i5ir4 


Ch. 

St. 

Stanza-beginning 

Cb. 

St. 



¥iTgrr?H^T?Tlf sfrn 

ts 

<^\J 



HtcT ?3TtTrJT 

X^ 




fTt^T gj3 ^rsTuft 

X^ 



1 

ft ^ 

ft^rg^Tt ^4:?^ 

X'S 




?T€?r 


x^ 


1 

5TtgTTR =g 

?\9 

XX 

\< 

9i» 

i 

?Tn5;<sig«3:^JIt:'''T: 


XV 

ft ^ 

1 

fTfllsf fT^Ti^ 


XX 


't^ 

TTIT spR^Tlal'i 


n 

c 


»TTi TT^?I 


X<i 


'll 

tt4 ^^3 


X'^ 

% 


j »7jt: 5T#r ^ fir? ’t 


16 

\c 


; TTifi'nriTrf^TcTai 


XX 

I'S 

I'-s 

^T^qpJTtfjT TTHHT 


IX 

X< 

'Jll 

TT^T 


"xX 

8 

a 


m 31T3TT IJB; 

x< 

XV 

T 


TT'i =r: qrmqr^ sigt 

x^ 

IX 

8 


^T^^WfoT aqiq- 

c 

IX 

K 

X'v* 

■ «q^?f'T3 ti-sf^flu. 

?a 

11 



TTqqiTFqfT?q3q 


XX 

0 

'i^ 

c ' 

TT'qiijT?«Tm?iTrir 


XX 

a 


?T^lJ5Tf?«T^ ql '«! 


XT 

Q 


?t4i|.<iTf5T ^r%B 

*1 

\s 

X 


j 


X® 



, TT^ffcTsA TT?^ 


IV 

8 


TT^fqlfijg 

^8 

V 


^*1 

, TT^iq' ^ff ff? ^IT%fw^ 

IH 


VI 

^Tqinlf^q^TTlf^ 

8 

X''> 



^rWr^Bgoirirre' 


IV 

^ 

IV 

TTf^q q:# ^f^q- 


V6 



^Tfqgr: STSir: TJ|f 


1® 


16 

TTfT5TqTTqq!'« 

c 

1 \» 



12 


GlTA-RAHASYA or KARMA-YOGA 


Stanza-beginning 

Gh. 

St. 

Stanza-beginning 

Oh. 

St. 

JTT 


1° 



^o 

srr^ sru 

u 

\o 

^^ilJ;^r?JT^TS5JTR 

^0 

I'A 

ttTT 

\ 




vfH 


f 


I 





■\’i 

1 ^fT ^ 

1° 



tc 


f?fl Sir 





\'< 

ftfr%JtT fT^r ^tsfJT 





% 

i 

i ^ 

I T%!i 'rormr 

i =gfRr HI f%% 





0 

^=1 

^sp^q^rtT^fj^TiTT^ 


Vi 

IV 

\ 




1 ^ 



^?Tr5l?^ Wfrqift 





ya 






i 

«-nrr^ 15^'n 

'A 

') 

1 g rT^giH 


=1^ 

?itipqqtnr 


If 

1 ??M =5 


'^\ 

f’fir%5r 



5IH n$i 

V9 


f?«T?f5T^??T spr »ifiir 



' ^ 'Tr^girTI 

?<2 


^<T5rr?f52rr sfrcgfirr 

"A 

Hv» 

1 9H: H 


\ 

=gT^5iJI 


AT 



n 




An index of the words occurring in the 
GITA 

by reference to the chapter and the stanza. 

(Thin index has been incorporated in this book as it is from 
the edition of the Bhagavadglta by Dr. Annie Besant and 
Babu Bhngavandas, published by the Theosopliioal Publishing 
House, Adyar, Madras, India, 1926, for wuich incorpora¬ 
tion, both Babu Bhagavandas, and the Theosopfdeal Publishing 
House have very kindly granted permission to t;he Translator ). 


Word 

Ph. 

Ht. 

j Word 

Ph. 

St. 

Word 

Ch, 

St, 







star 

?'X 

XX 


a 




X'i 

31H ^<1 

X^.Xc,XX 



a’. 


H 


arg;? 


XX 




3?W*r: 

?o 

XX 

3Tgrr?j: 


xt 








'Xi 





<2 i 

.XX 

ST'^X'»K. 


X'x 


8 







vs® 



vs 





XX 


8 

!<: 



x.x 



X 



^ vs 



XX 

artels': 


Xof 



U 


It 

,xt 

3Txic7r 

9 

■xX 




aT^?iin5q; 

?0 

XX 



XX 






°l<'- 

aru^vT 

<2 

X* 



1 


8 

XX 





9 

V-f 


V9 

xt 


<2 







tx 



X 





? 

XX 

aif%:s?«i: 

9 

xv 

3T^ir%i=-Trfi ?<: 

n 

3fr%: 

8 

vs 

arf^'Xisr 

8 

Xt 



1 'i 


c 

Xof 

1 

at^TTfr: 


XX 

3T^5T 


1 - 


\ 

XX 



XX 





W 

XX 


^v9 

£ 






Vi 



XV 



14 GITA 

.-RAHASYA OR KARMA-YOGA 



Word 

Ch. 

St. 

Word 

Gh. 

St. I 

Word 

Ch. 

St. 






Hv 









‘=1 

1 

XX 






'iT 

i 

x^ ^ 

01 

3151^ 





')<: 



H,i 

315m; 



Slf^TFcI 



3isi^r 


VH 






1 


^e 

VH 


,'i^ 

3ir;rr: 


V i 

I 



VH 


? 

\o 

aiRfrrRR 



ai«lt 

8 



8 


3iRFTq^ 


^vj 

3l5[%<im 



3i3it?T^r 


V'i 

rs ©•>. 

3ir^q?T?r 


vv 



VS 

3i3rT^?cT: 

vS 



^8 

^=1 

sii^rST: 


Hv 




aira^qSRft- 





vq, 






'I^S 

siss^qif^ 




8 

Vo 

sirfR: 

^8 

1 


X'S 

HH 

3!?R5m. 





’‘j 


IX 

Ho 


^8 


si^R 

^8 

^sO 1 

X< '^'*f 

,vs^ 



i 

3l?nF^q»i; 




8 

\ 

%?n: 


■lA 

si^Tq' 


Ho ' 





8 

v^ 



V5\s 




an^RfTfllf: 

\c 

'^•< i 

3iR5?m; 


1 ai^tr: 


? 

Si^R 

"4 


3ir4^i. 

\3 







'I'i 

3lR«q; 



st'-iirm 


H° 

la 



an?qTfri^[*i 


nn 

3iqjtHq 

8 

VS 



V 



'i'l 

«iq«5R; ?c 'n,>H 






Hi 

aiv^fr: 


'€^ 


<4 




3i'artTrr»TVRr<i: \ 

V't 


1C 

s 

\ 

8 

''V 

arvzr: 

^8 

=li 

sjtnl; 

c 



< H, 

V,^l 



I.H 

3itiT'ir4gig[ 

u 


1 

^o 

\s 1 



't- 






'^'tf ■ 





ic 


3(«I 

X Xo 

.H^ 



5 *5 

^fT; 







v^,vt 

0& 






INDEX 

OF WORDS IN THE Gli'A 


IS 

Word 

C'a. 

Ht, 

Word 

Dh. 

St. 

! W ord 

Ch. 

St. 

arf^^rT: 


Vvs ■' 

aTil?fT^3T 


^ O 





t'«• 

^ vs V 

3TST5=iT?r>Tli;, 



! 


t'*. 


y 

r. 

3i.q??T»i;^ \\ 

'i') 

,V'.5 


Xo 


‘4 

1 S 

V'S 

si^yrT: 

^0 



X^ 

'i'^ 



X' ’ 

3151^; 

a 

if'l 


a 




V. 

3T5f??T%rn: 

< 

rx 


?a 

% 


?c 


arPrsq-WT^ 


?■> 

sisTITJ^ITfl 


Y 


c 



'i 

Vs 





<: 

"i 

at^pqqr 

c 


aiHTlf^*^ -i 



c 



ll 

^.V 

STHlf^sf: 

a 



<: 


SIHS^H 



sjsiifira: 



arTw^r*!: 


V « 

atns^T^frrrH 


'!'> 

3T/^i?T: 

?» 

'i^ 



w 

arjrp^rT: 

% 


arffi'Egs) 




s 

3|SIT^: 


n 

aifHc’ITi; 


U 

9(iv:>l^at 


'i» 


%-c 

■> <j 




3T«^nf?T%cT?rr 


3o 

aiJTfd’ssra': 

X^ 

^ 

sif^SR; 

!c 

n 

siwrrmsyR 


"i ^ 

sT^nTRvTrq^ 

X^ 

5 



<1 



E 


a 

^ \5 

3?gq;stTrvffl; 

?o 

*0 

aTK?nmf%?n 

^0 


3T?r’Tr: 


V 


•c 

d 


1 


i9 

'(f 

argfr^f^ia' 

^ 5 vn 



'■'A 


% 



19 

Rr 


c 


3J7iq37)q;?»^ 


V 

; 3ig=vTHH) 

<9 

tc 

arv-qs^rt 

9 c 

V> O 

arq^nHJ?; 



^3^aJT'Tf: 



sTH^rJj; 

US 

V , 

3151^31: 


v; 

^g>»Tq;?ij; 

?k9 

IE 


^.a 

'% 1 





?I9 

V o 






1 aig'T^^ffa 


\ 

aTTfirr 

?S> 


3Tsr^5: 


vs ^ 


^8 

n 

gRPrf^fH 

U 

r‘, 

ar^f'Urf: 


(S 

3T575^^;t 

?'^ 

I® 

stsTPa^a?, 

?»; 

v--, 1 

ar^ifTT'fV 



argq^qtuf 

X 


SIiT??T^cr 



aiflHfTH: 



aigqTvTC 

% 



u 

^ 1 

3Tfrrr^?^fl. 


n 

sigqf'jq: 

x< 



\ 

; 

aifTTT^in; 


V. 

aifqsq 

x<: 






16 


GlTA-RAHASYA OR KARMA-YOGA 


Word 

Ch, 

St. i 

Word 

Ch. 

St. 

Word 

Ch. 

St. 

aigjTPfrr 


■ 


<1 

1° 

1 

gif^Tair 


11 


U 




1 

c 1 

3r?2t^3r5iTvrTfiT: % 




’O 1 



VS^ 

aifq^^rtT: 

\9 

? o 





<: 

'll 

3Tf^^T 

< 



8 

‘11 

aT^cTTIrig: 


XC 

an^^rg, 

IH 

IS 



'1^; 




31? If: 

R ’,S, 







VS 


8 

11 

«ig5rr%?Tr??j; <: 




'^\S 


c 

^«, ^ 



'tsi 

1 


H 



\\ 

s\ 

3Tg5Tl=sr[-fr 


11 



^ \4 1 

1 

1 

1 


I'A 

arg^f^gg; 



3r?^5?ffi%: 

'I 


1 

i 

\\ 

1*1 

aig^sra 


'^1 

aiscT^g 

'S 

1 

1 

i rv 

\c 

£S 



1“ ^ 

3T?cr5r?rr: 


1< 

1 

» 


aTg«T?r?rrr% 


H ; 



1^ 


IV 


c 

vs : 

315^; 


1^ 

3ISJIT75T 


11 


c 

1 

1^1 

^0 n 



sififTH; 

v9 

's 

3Tg?JT??i: 

c 




1^ 

3TSJT 1 \ 

\\ \\ 

,U 

Sl45Ef%Tlf^- 




va 

V 


8 

1*1 

5rr?crr: 


1^ 



£ 

1 

1 

vv 

IH 

aT%^5T?rrH- 


1 

1 

3t'fT:§T^: 


^.'s 

1 

1 


Y 

Rt^: 



3i?ar:?5ijrRT 

K 


3IsV<:^: 


IH 

3i^5pf^s?Tr¥r- 



3Tf?rr% 

v< 

I’A 

3l5=£r5Tt=g: 


11 


U 

1o 


V9 

IS 

311^=53 


VS 


\X 

11 


C 


3rff^m: 


11 



i 

ai^rtriT^: 


1-^ 



1 


U 

IV 

3T511?; 


1Y 

3rTg?iTg 


e. 




atSfig 


iv;3iq?^7?¥rgjrg.t^ 

c 

«rng. 


i 

1 “ ! 



13i<T?g^ 8 


11 



^Xj 




iSTTTI 


's 



i 



VA 

1 3l7tTra?r: 

\ 

1 \s 



1 ^ ! 



<: 

! 3Tq?Tf^ 

1 


11 


w 

,11 1 

315^^ 



' aiTiig 

\\ 

IV 



INDEX OF WORDS in the GirA 17 


Word 

Oil. 

tit. 

Word 

Oh. 

St. 

Word 

Oh. 

St 



■> 

ari3^*j; 



aiDliTP^f^ 


'A'* 



I'l 


\S 

6 

siDtsi^; 

8 



9 


apR^^'g^rr 

tc 

-=<1 

aif»T¥r^r% 

t 

"Ifo 

siTt 8 

'.'1 




aifiigq- 

t8 

1 » 




tvs 


aifiig^T: 

tt 



V^. 





3lfHT5T-3 

t 

■^1. 


?c 


arsisftqr 

t 


aifiltiT: 

tc 

>fA 


1 

1- 


8 


aifirBrm®f?crtt 



\c 


ariTrKm 

< 


air»T?i''Tr«T 

tvs 


w>???Tq; 

v 


ar^T^rg 

to 

'<1 

#% _ 

3tr*ri??Tr 







t^t 

'1 

aivirm^: 

tt 


ai«Tf?T^cI?TI*J 

<? 


ai«ani; 

t 



t<S 


srTffrgjrTHT: 


'I'A 

3fwr%ii 

R 

V o 

aiv^rg^^i! 

t^ 

U 

wtirav^r: 

X'^ 

’A 

3liTT^aT?r: 




t^ 


aPTr^m; 

8 


afviTcr: 


'1^ 

aiyir^frm: 


n 

aprr^ 

8 


ar-iTFm 

tt 

ri 

sr¥irff«T5cr 

t 


aJTT?^ 

^; 


snifaBiiJTra: 




c 

«TT ? 

’-'O 

etc. 

aim5i:^grr^ 


't'". 

ai):?frH?rtn^ 

t’? 

K 

aig^TTff^Ji: 


^ \S 

sifiTarm^ 

t^. 


aivmHm: 

t^ 

n 

wIgjHj; 


'•< 

aim aim: 

t^ 

y 


t^: 

U 




aiDraimfm 


\'ii 

ai^q'TH 

t? 

1 tt 

aUTSFI^I: 



aifviarr^Trtrr 

8 

Vi 




awf^HSr^TT^: ^?. 


\S 

I 

: r-'.'-t 

ai¥g?m5ig 

8 

\» 

anrf^s^j; 


c 


t'i 


3im!5r5j;. 

t8 


ammB: 



aifiraim^ 

V 

V-1 

awifjtmg 

t^ 

\» 

atJi?r1r^T?»3t 





v^i 

arfft^ffiasn: 

tt 

^tt 

aisi^^T 






aiift 5-.^ • 


aTJrJr^i*!. V. 

1 

aiRr^: 




V » 




air*T^r??TRr 

tc 


aigij 

3TiIff%: 

!8 


aifir^^t^ 

t'=^ 


aig^r: 

t'^ 


aTEIT':?! 


^vs 



^Ml 

ai^ftc^rn 

?! 

'i'A 

% 1, 




t^ 


anjrf^^t 

t8 








18 


GITA-RAHASYA or KARMA-YOGA 


Word 

Ch. 

St. 

Word 

Oh. 

St- <Vord 

Ch. 

St. 




aTTml^tT: 

t^: 

^ X 

t8 

XX 


to 


3TR?T^?f 

Os 

5i 

V 


X£ 



’\\ 

3ii^g»3i; 

V9 

H -I si^tq-: 


X" 


t« 


sr^ii ^ 

9 

etc. 5nrf%’Tr^«%: 

tt 

XX 


to 


ajsJsfirJTTq; 




vx 



aisjsw?!^: 


xc 31^5^ 


c 



1° 


t^ 

XX. 3T^5T: 


'X 


•tt 


314: ^ •ifX 


! 


vv 

3||:)T^T 


T- 

3t»Tr4f 

\9 



tx 

3l¥5iif« 



3i 4 t XX 


X'* 

u 

Xo 


8 

'O 




V9 


ai^rfcT! 




8 

x^ 3icre¥JT 


c 


t<2 

xt 


\s 

t^ 

X 

8l?T^ 

t 

XX 



XV 3i5r?n^4?t 




to 


stJTBrr 

to 

XX 3m?«iTgH: 

t 

Xo 



3ifflr 


X's 3ig^?i?r?3t 

t'X 

XX 



arffir ^ 

3TgR«I?T 


V 



1 ’^'^jX" 

,XX; 

t^ 

XX 





X” 3T^f?«r?n^ \ 

XX,X'^ 

8 




XX X 

XX, XX 


^ n't 

,xx 


to 

XX 


X 



’.'A 


tt 

w 

tt 

XX 



x^ 


t^ 

XV 3t^^r?n4*^ 

tt 

vx 


tt 

X 

STfT: 

t 



XX 


t^ 

XX 

3TWH: 

t<i 

xc sisrrHs^jj; 


XX 


t'^ 

« 


t^ 

X sisrrjra; 


XX 


t« 

X 


t^ 

X i 

t^ 

c 





V9 


t^ 

XX 


'A 



tC 

XX; 

1 

ic 

'xX 


t< 

■^.c; 


to 

V 


c 

gfl^»T?r: 


X 

3I^3nHT^ 


X X i 

t^ 

'X 

3t?%: 

t^ 

X o 


t« 

XX 


XX 



INDEX OF WORDS in THE Gri'A 


19 


Word 

Ch. 

St. 

Word 

Ch. 

St. 

Word 

Ch. 

St. 




gi5?rfii^En^ 




8 



V 



■j^ 





^0 

\s 


t8 


X< 


5? 




HI 

sRitx^n^ 


'IT 



X\ 


8 1 

f't? 

3Rt1«^: 


HV 


\ 

V*. 



arsnj; 



giRif^llr^ 

\ 

'^\ 




siwfs^ 

•1 

7 a 


\s 

^VS 



H,v 

SIWlfiT 

% 





^8 


aiwrfFi 

% 

^\S 

3|f%^?ITf5I 


')\J 






V 



’.=1 

\c 





sifirTf^rr: 


4\ 

mm- 





H<i 

WrlvTrKH^ 

\\ 







IH 


\< 




'iai 


?8 

7 o 

31%^ 

X 

■U 

»r5JT?iT?ifr 

8 



8 

'i 0 


\ 

-X? 

BIs’T^irJq; 

» 


aisii^snvrr: 


} 


\i 

3T3frar.: 


'^1 

^yn5;m 

X^ 

H6 

ars^ttKJjfSJiT 

% 

■if 

aRTJT; 

^8 

IH 

ar^'jTiri^- 



3IS?TtSH3T^ 

c 


3i;r^rm 


■if 5 



1 

^TSqrfilj; 


■=,v 

3i5rrsrr?^ 



aiafr^ 

?< 

'iJY 





C 

r\ 

aTJa’f?!^; 







^ 


?o 


aisjT^: 





1o 



£ 

C 

\ 




"5 vs 


^0 


3l5>TTKr 

V^ 


arg^r 


n 

arfijqr 

XX 

3I55!TrKTfi; C 

=1 


arg+THT, 

8 


aiST^rr 

^3 

V 

sjsq^rftfiT 


\c 




atHrS-ff^i;: 


■>S\ 




argvrrJi; 





“V 



\ 

3igsgi% 





Tif 

9a[s^fil=gif^avt > ^ 

To 


Tif 

D,''. 

aiH^: 


'1'^, 

gjsqfir^T" 




V9 

H 


'\H 


ftniTT 




X^ 

'I'i 



HI 





20 


GiTA-RAHASYA OR KARMA-YOGA 


Word 

Ch. 

St. 

«rarfXE: 

n 



I'i. 

X 

aiRR: 

R 

XX 


% 

x«. 










9iiR5f?r: 


'iR 



6 



Xo 



6 

WTRsI: 


Xo 


X 

auR^: 




^0 

X 



x^ 

atRRt?’: 

^0 

V 

atRqRI5R^T 


XX 

3IR?rRa^ 


X'A 



X 

aiR^rR: 

< 

v> 


tc 

X<i 

3lfR 8 

X 

etc. 

arfRcf: 

?o 

XX 

atfR^r 

8 


aig^slR; 


XX 

sTRiei^rij. 

^V9 

XX 

3iRr 


^x 



XV 

aiftrr ^ 

Xo 

etc. 

ar^g 


Y'i 



Xo 


Word 

Oh. St. 

x\ 

X X jX^jVo 

arf^sRJ^ 

^ ^X 


%% ^x 


\ 'S.Xo 

awrrg; 

^ X^ 


t XX 

afJ^rfVr; 

? x^ 

arRii V9 

«i, etc- 

atf^R^ 

% \\ 

R XX 
^ X 

c ^ 

K'^ RR 

^8 XX 

\^. X 

3RR R 

X'»,vo,^’t, 

XH.X'S 

% 

X^jXv.vo, 

^ X^ 
% X 

\\ X«i;X^,vX,^^ 

^X 

X 

9W?xn^ 


atitari^ast 

^ ’t 


^ 'A 

arfRn^ 

C Xi.XX. 

aifR- 

1 ^^,^x 

S V,v»,XX 


-,’.X,XV,vvs 

8 

Xj'A^'s.XX 


X“>XX»Xv 


Word Oh. Sfc. 

X%X^.X^XX, 

x^x^.x^,x\ 

V'‘,^X,^V, 




V.. 


?8 

X.v.X'^ 


XX,Xv,X'^,X'^,, 



XH.Xv 


XV,XV,XV,x«., 

?.s 

XX, 

'i°,\sv,\s'^ 


arf^^f^ajv 

^RRr 


’t'* 

art^R^j; 


X^ 


^x,^x. 

atfsBR: 

V9 

V 



H. 

aftt^Br^rg; 

?C 

'Xi 

3T^^: 

?« 

X'* 

aTf: <: 

x«,^v 



INDEX OF WORDS in the GITA 21 


'Word 

Oil. 

St. 

Word 

Ch. 

St. 

Word 

Ch. 

St. 




3ITW: 



aiTfiT?^: 


t)vs 




3irrmrlll5i: 


II 

3irf5t^!Hn3t 

8 

VI 




airfers 

8 

VH 

3ir5JT^5^; 





\s 

an??! 


I 

aircw^;^ 


VV. 




3rr?HjpR^?!; 


II 


vs 






V^v, 


l'^ 

II 




31155151: 

i 

8 

1 

3ir5iif%ilji?r: 



ai^ 



i 

H 

■'I 

.^0 

II,I'- 


< 

“iv* 



3ir!flf^gi:^ 

1 

II 

3151: 


vs 


C 

IH 



IH 


?o 

’t'i 

^0 

1^5 

sti?nH>ir- 



an 



i 

HI 

,HH 

^r; 


Ivs 

3ir^r5Tf5’-m: 



1 


n 

antTrwJT- 



3n*i5n^ 




\c 

n 

*it*Trwr 

8 

H vs 

3rre?ir?nj; 

5ic 


i 3n?5mr 

1 


A-a 

3n?lTn^-45^ 


H'l 




! 


VI 

1 snnrr ^ 

ann’sdq: 


IV 



? O 

> ' 



M 

WTm: 

8 

^o 


^0 

lA 





?8 





lo 

H® 

acrimiirf^H: 



3(T5frfir 





IH 

»JT^7cr: 

8 




Tvs' 

: 3iT?5?r5Hr, 


VI 

sir=^?f^ 



8 

I'A,!^ 

{ 

8 

vs 




1 

'H 

HI 

1 

1 


*1 

3ir’ei?q; 







AA 


'<8 

^=1 



Hv 



IV 



vs 



11 


?o 

I'A 

3irgi5i 


I 

3tr?iTq^5 


IC 



I.v 

arr'gi^ 



3I5flr5%5I- 



1 9J\ 


«»r=3r?n^ 





I^ 


II,M 

an^giqr: 


IV 

snwwi^?»i: 

\0 

11 

3rn^*^ 


IH 


vs 

3ir5JT5Tni7IT 

8 

I 

3IT5«Tf55r^ 


HI 

■^r5=!i*3C, 

1 


1 3rr?5T^5Ti?j: 

l\ 

>fvs 


'I 

lA 




22 


GiTA-RAHASYA OR KARMA-YOGA 


Word 

Oh. 

St. i Word 

Ch. 

St. 

Yord 

Ch. 

St. 



\(-\ 

8 


9Trq^ 

c 

1® 



^\s 

H 



t^ 




'>^1 \c 


SlffiRR 


u 

arrf^!qq?t 


^ %. ansTft^qrg^ 

C 

n| 

arr^rqrfi; 




C 

S 1 

to 


wqirqiqrqtlrf 

'1^:. 

«nf^?qTqm 

^0 

1 aTr3:^f^q^fqtiqg- 


ajrg 

9 

XA' 

an%7TTq^ 


S ’q5ftf^fq^W;^y9 

c 

aina^?^ 




to 

=1R 1 





snf^'^: 

\\ 

^ <i 1 aTRfq^ 

\C 


ainaqif^ 

tt 

X 


w 

1 ^ anr?*¥r; 

t8 


airwqq; 

t 

XX 

airf?: 



5 

X 

stffaiRR^ 





5 1 t 

^ arrsiqjj; 

t^ 


anfkci: 

t^ 


wfr 

\ 

Vi 

t9 

'\ 



<jV 


8 

'< 

\ 

S\9 

-IV 

gtrikcTT: 



atrws^qPcT: 


\\ 

t«i 

v^ ! 


XX 


airfwc 

air^r^r 


«jrtT5rJ5_ 

sirqwr: 
wq; ^ 

»n'5^ 

»fni?r*TrJni 

«trg[qf^ 


< 

Xi 1 

3(1^; 

k ^ 

1 

x^! 

airf^5q 

'S 

x^ 

XX 

?<< 

,v^ ^ 
V i 

ailRfqt: 


V)o 1 

t^ 

X^.X^.'XA 

^ » 

t^ 

1 

^ ! 


C 

x^' 

atfwRqrJrm tt 


'A 

X° 

wqT^^: 

c 

xx! 

aitHTljfrsn: 


X 


XX 


t'x XX 

,x^ 

3irR^ 


XX 


<. 

3irf%e»3; 


1 

X 



XX 

'S 

XV 1 arrfq^: 

t 

x^ j 

9irRr?i 


X" 

t^ 

X" 


^ XM^ 


^ ^v,^x 

^X,'»‘> 



x-^ 



XV 


V 1 

aiTf^: 


x^ 

1 



tt 

n 

? <> 

9r^r 

t-i 

XX 

1 arr^ft^r: 

t8 

XX 

r 

\9 o 

1 

% ' 


tc 

v<: 

1 arr^^xfq^qiq;, 

c 

t^ 

T 

wif^ 

c 

XX 


'<$ 

XX 


1< 

3r^?’T 


Vo 


t^ 




1 


XX 

sirg?: 

t^ 

1 


\So 


t8 

-*> 

sirgxi: 

t^ 

\s 


X'^ 

1 an%f5icr%aRm^^ 

VJI 

3Tigft 

t^ 

t* 





INDEX OF WORDS in the GITA. 


23 


Word 

Oh. 

St- 

Word Ch. 8t. 

Word Gh. St. 



"W 


^ 3v 



v< 


t^ 



¥,3«> 

^x3i5^figc«i^vs 






8 

arr# 



ll 

^ c,^\s 




Ic =1 

tt H3 

arr^sTi^T 

V9 


9\9 




V 

x\ 



'i 

Xi 


% vSjVOjVijV^ 


vs 


%^: v9 ^ 

8 HS 


c 


?8 'i 


anf^W: 

■i 

3'' 

1 '-“.H etc. 

t^ K 

aiff 

? 

3=1 

1 -io,-<')/<« 

tH ^ 





?f?iT*!rr?m: ^ i % 

aifft 

\ 

"O 



arifl?: 


'i 

vs 

ffe?«TT^f¥ar:^ 

arriT?!: 

?V9 


•C 


Wf: 

> 





« 


to V^ 



«C 

3'i 









?8 


t^ 




c 

t^ I 

t 

3Tr5> 

^vs 

f 

■i 

t8 3 

t'^ ■< “ 

8 1,3 

?Sf^r?E% 

8 



% ^,n 



n 


t^ u 





tvs ^ 



•». 

??r5ftvq_ 11 <^=i 

t^ vio^va^^vs^ 


vs 


t< \% 

^irrfsT t< 11 


< 

'O 


tt n 


\\ 

\j 

ff?^®riTN?r: t^ E 

\<C 1'» 





24 GITA-RAHASYA OR KARMA-YOGA 


Word 

Ch. St. 

Word 


Oh. 

St. 

Word 

Ch. 

St. 





n 

YS 





^ XY 






etc. 


?0 ^ 




Y^ 

3r^ 


Vo 


1 U 



'i^.YY 

t8 

,'i'i 





tc 


3'35TJT% 


Y 






'■t<i 

3!^rJTScn^ 

X'A 

■I® 





8 



19 

■VY 


'S Y,H 




<s,1^ 


8 



\ X* etc. 




1Y 





^ Y 




^'i 







VS 



X9 



U n 






\C 

% 

fE: 

?<: ^Y.vjo 


g' 



3^*T: t*4 




u 

’V,Y<1 

Tanrff: 

u 






r® 

^^3it: 








U 

3’^?T^DTH 


^Y 

fETJ 

s 








V=^ 





^Y 


8 

Y^ 


'^,'1,y«,y<i,'ao 



C 

HI 










Tf?qfn 


<1^ 



^fKr: 


5? 



■ 







Y\» 

iin?^ 


YY 


^ Yo 





THTI^T«ij^ 

?VS 

'1^ 


VS 

n 



^¥Tms?t 

X 






^ 



’(Y 




\l 



% 




^n?i. 


%\ 

\o 


X^ 



?vs 

! 3-m: 


W 

V 


?vS 



^ 

f 

^Jl: 


ll 

YY 



Y^ 



3^; 


\ 


3'^i?r: 

VS 

'l<s 





^vs 




ijwra; 

\\ YY 




•i® 


^8 





INDEX OF WORDS in the (3lTA 


25 


Word 

Ch. 

at. 

Word 

Ch. 

St. 


j,^ 









^*1 

X 



? *-» 

> ^ ^ 

X^jX^ i 

U 


3TI^?«T 


1^1 


l'^ 

1 

IV* , 

'TTITHiq- 

X 

X 





X'^ 

t 


X'S 




XV 


Xo 

VO 

i 3-<TT2r?r: 


XX 




^qtfXRtii: 

X 



\o 

^V 

^qif«raT: 

8 

1o 

3^?iirr: 

X 

v**, 

j 


11 


X 

^o 

1 grqrf^ 

!8 

X 


XX ‘iH.'i^ 


X<^ 

'^\s 



^O 


% IVjI'A 




1 

XX 

X,X 

g'Tsrrq^ 

X %\%'^ 


X^ 

X'A 


?8 


3-^: 


X'^ 

^1511^1^ 

?8 



XX 

X 


8 


i 3^ 

< 1'^ 

.,^x 





X'^ 

^<T^r 

X^ 


1 

<. I- 

,Xi 

3-qvTr??T 



1 


Xi: 


% 


3VI3f3We: ^ 

X^ 


X 

X 

3»T3l: X 




X'^ 


X lo 

,1X 


X'^ 

li 



V 


Xc 

'J 

3^ 


't“ 


X 

X’^ 

* 

3WI 

X 

1\ 

^>mT 


It 


'X 

X 


Xo 

1 O 


x^ 

It 


H; 

x^ 

37nT^ 

XX 

IX 




3e^3 


x-= 


Word 

Ch. 

St. 

33m 

X 1 etc. 

35131 

Xo 

x^ 

3%^! 


VI 


3r 


3;r^5^ 

^0 

VI 

g:i;#jj^5R|^ 

t'X 

1 


XX 

V 


t8 

16 


^'X 

X 

3«iTqT: 

XX 

XX 




3PiP 


Iv* 

^f'Sssiw 


vsX 


H 

xt 

3nm 

Xo 

1v 

3Fcl5im 

Xo 

X't 


Xo 

XX 


X 

V 

9R-33: 

'X 

X't 


Xo 

IX 

3ff3fH: 

x% 

V 


XX 

1't 




<?q5?En^ 


XI 



1*1 



1« 

i?q53r 

< 

XX 


XX 

\» 


XX 

IX 


x^ 

X® 


x< 

XX 



26 


GiTA-RAHASYA OR KARMA-YOGA 


Word 

Oh. 

St. 

Word 

Oil. St, 

1 ’'’“'ord Gh. St. 


' 

1,v,H 

^'A 1 

q^rrfXr 

1 

?8 XX,AX 

V 

X 

1 8 vx 

1 ^ .. 

U '^‘ 


!C ^ 

'A' 

“jXX , 


1 xx,x^ 
x^xx: 

1 X>XA,AA 

^ \>x 


\\ 

Vi% . 

%y 

Xo,XA,XX,XX ' 

•jfw: AX 



XX; 


m xa' 

\€. Vo 

«J^T 

• 

VA , 


? X: 

»jwr: AX 



A“ : 


V9 Av 1 

« AX 

i;^r8fr?Jj; 

c 

XX i 


^0 ^ , 

? A etc. 

q^riT^ 


AX 



1 XV etc. 



'jX 


8 A,,'A' 

\l VC 



'‘^ 1 


«C X| 

[ 'aX.'AV 

*J^t5iT»I 

Ko 

VX ' 
1 


U 'A''. 

i?q:^ Ao.X'^.XV” 

';%5i 

n 

"<o , 


? '<X,X^ 

^0 VO 

«l% 

u 

X i 


^ A'A 

IC ^A 

«5Xi^ 

8 

/m 

>>^i 

XH; 

X,v; 


8 X® 

ts A<; 

C XX.X'i 

»?^r >J X'A,'*^ 

tS AV 

irTrat \ vx 


'5^ 


?o 'tv I 
ll \A\x^ 

I 

i ,5%; 

f « ^ i <55^ 

H '»! 

^ I 
^ xO, 


U XX 
\C 

> x^ 

\o v* 

^ to 

? -vX 

^ Vo 

y X'* 

^ 'i'»>,'t'^.,’'t 

^x,^x,^x,^\ 

\ X'ijV'l 




< '* 

% XV 


’i \ 

3ft 

^3ifir t X 

XX 





INDEX OF WORDS in the GITA 


27 


Word 

cii. St, 

Word 

Gh. St. 

Word 

Ch. St. 


C <1^ 


^ U 


^ 11 




\< 


^ 1,’. 






'S It 


art 




C -i 

W'srvro; 



8 


XV 






\\9 v,\s 


<4 X<: 



?<1 ^)X)'t,<J )t ,'i “, 


^■C '^'^,'^'i 


X'l 


.'i^.'it.xx, 




'<V,^H,YX,YY, 


spfrf^ 

% ^VS 


Y\5,YC 




aY 

EpJT'^^^r 

%< "i-s 



^<4: 





^0 =!<; 


\ 

5PW3IT 

8 "iX 

SRSi^T^T! 

Ic ssV, 

5fi??5«irf5r 



8 XX 

9p«l?is?r: 

^0 

ss.?fr 

^ '<Y,-H'l 


^ l,t 


U 



8 

?o Ts 




^8 n 




8 n 


'J'.'ix 




t8 'it 


^ X- 


H Y 


?<i 


?<: 


< 


1 Y'A 


^ V 


^0 'iss 


^ 'i'J 


8 IX 


\9 


^ Vo 


't 1 


? Y^S 




^8 'iX 


?c 


I'i.'l^.tY; 




^ =» 


?<: 


^ Y\s 

^f^vi^jar: 

\ '<- 

^^?gj3i; 

R 1Y 


1,XX, XX, XX 


ko 


^ Yt 


8 ltf,X° 





?8 t 





XX 


i.<S 'iv.'l-i 



?<C vx 


^ u 


=RT'E5!??irTT: ? ? 'i 





28 


GlTA-RAHASYA OR KARMA-YOGA 


Word 

Ch. 

St. 

Word 

Ch. 

St. 

Word 

Ch. 

St. 



'll 



S,*'- 



'i'A 


tc 

X'J 


X'^ 


^jj; ^ 



iv 


^,'11,VI 


Xo 




v\j 

5B?rT3^s^fif X'^ 



’A 

,n 



*15^ 

spf^WT: 





1-4 



I 





<: 


'!>+) 

8 

■Ro 



vs 





8 


SB5Tqs?r: 

^V9 




“IH 

=eW5r5^»t: 

> 




vs 

srr 





n 

^5wrffm 

Xo 

1“ 

^1 







< 





«4r»r: 



^5<T«ir^ 

% 

vs 

5? 



8 

IV 


X 




1 



vs 


18 


SpTf^ 







x< 




Ivs 

(m) 



«. 

^5'iT?r 

% 

vs 


?8 







VO 


^<2 

V.V 





8 



8 




T'A 






u 


^8 

vs 

56f%?3t, 

<c 




XT 






^vs 



'll 





^0 

^vs 

^7»t^hY 


\S o 

^JT^r^rT: 

C 






ur 

^x 









T'l 


» 




^VS 





^jTvs 


R 

I'i 

?TW: 


T^ 



S 







■•^infiiT 


Vi 



Vo 




\ 



V9 



^x 

8 



?c 



to 



1 

OjIV 



y 

5ET7T^ni«7X 

T8 






^vs 



TX 






INDEX OF WORDS m the GITA 


29 


Word 

Oh. 

Pt. 

f^: 

^Trirf^-'T- 





•n 







r^?rr: 

8 




<i 



,’i^ 


Ic 


^rw: 








T'l 



’.'1 

JBWrmR! 











^HT: 


\S o 

55TH»g?TT 

?c 


5FTITt>T^>T<T- 

a 


OT: 


I'l 

^nT^5!5IlT- 

?c 


^TPi; 




r^ 



Vif 











Word 

Ch. 

St. 

«ROIlf^ 

?c 





5pr'T'»’T0^- 





«r4'^Rii5F- 





’ O 










\c 








^r^rf^r?f 

?<i 

■t« 

S/* 



w??; 

c 


^rgi: ^0 










l\ 

’."A 


<c 

?, 5 





8 ^ 


S3 

<1 ^ 

,^v. 


? 

M, 



<) vS 






^ '^,U 

8 

^ U 


Word 

Ch. 

St 


to 

XR 


ts 

R"] 


t^ 

c 

f%xrrr 


RR 


8 

Ro 



c 



R\ 



\S 


t^ 



tt 





8 



t< 

VVS 


q?t#»T5fr: 


•IV 





to 


¥ 

ffr: 1 



8 

n 


tt 


fifpffWtsi: 

t 



t 




'€C 



c 


8 




3V 


t^ 





t:^sr% 

t 





& 

i 





30 


GITA-RAHASYA OR KARMA-YOGA 


Word 


f^fs?r 

X 

^55f%f^: 

1% 

fl^rr^: 

^3^*T: 


Ch. 

St. 

Word 


Ch. 

St. 

Word 


Ch. 

St. 


VI 



>? 


^TOI ^ 



1,vi 


v^ 


% 






1 

?8 

IV 




^■> 


>vx 



V<J 








VI 


’i\ 


8 

1'1,'IH 



X^ 

1 

^0 






^ronj; 


XX 






tc 


fiTOi: 


<c 


.8 

'^V 

^r3T%: 

\\ 

1 




X<: 

\si: 



^<11'ci 


\C 




Xc 

VS'^ 

■a 

3^ 

^!T 



1-; 


% 




^v 







X^ 

1 

a 




8 


l>f%ri: 

t? 

y. 

1,'^^ 







1 


X^ 

’.V 


'io 



% 





?V 


v\s 



w 

\\ 



x^ 

I'*. 



1 




1 


8 

?1 


'i'1 


8 


1 

! 



% 

tc 









VI 






\\ 

1 

%?Tgr 





Vo 




i 




^v 





Vo 




1 

V 

OjVX 







^0 

IV 

9 

v^ 

1 


\ 

c 

%5Tsr??i 


U 


% 

1 

Vi 




-^\ 


XC 

vs^ 

1 

Vo 


w 


%RtRl'J,^H 

x^ 

1 


V'-(. 


\\ 

\ 

v^v 

%1 

lo 

1' 


^<i 

1° 

?wr: 


\ 

'iS 





?0 


IpWT 


\ 


%: 







\ 

1 



^8 

Xl 


X 



\ 

c 






c 



•s, 


IV 

etc. 

X'^ 

n 

' 5!!^ 


\c 

vv 




v\ji 




31 


INDEX OF WORDS in the GI'J'A 


Word 

Oh. 

St. 

^(■iTTrRt. 





'A“ 




1^ 

1% 


14,n 


S,V'i 






^'Jl 






'iC 

r^?TrRr5i^5(* 



'i\ 

ar 



1<, 

^i'r 



14 




3^>T: 

j? 

i’. 


'4 



c 

V,^1 



W 


9 

W 

l?5!T: 

?*! 

V 

?v 

'^*3^ 



fi 


Word 

Gh. 

St. 


SiTITH 


E 



^*1 

aifg^r: 

«? 


5ffwr \z 




3 

£Tlft 


11 

ST^*3^ 



aT^r^r 



mH, 

l'^ 

14 

mt 







■*\ 

^rf^: 


\» 


%c 

VI 

armsr 

u 


fWTlfll 


°iS 

farsm 

a 

1< 


% 

I'l 



H'A 

ail^f 


^1 



1 


®>,Xv 


^iHTig, 








1 




11i 

1 


9. 

va 




Word 

Oh. 

St. 


^T 

c 

ITx^ 





1^ 



V® 

»Tx;3»i; 

'I 

«> 



El 


'1 

14 


c 

EV 


^8 14,14 



E 

na-^TOTi^ ^0 


n^7fT^ 


1® 

JTcI5?T'«T: 


11 

nfTHS^s? 

8 

"tl 

ncfH^: 

^<1 

«1 

»T?I: 

u 

IE 

it?!T5rra»3[. 

% 

El 


»? 

11 

nm: 

c 

IE 


?8 

1 



V 





14 


C 11 

.El 



IE 



E4 


Vo V V 
^ > 


nf^: 

8 

Ivj) 



14 



E 



32 


gita~ra.hasya or karma-yoga 


Word 

Ch. 

St. 


19 





\X 



8 


nsrrrfli 





XX 



1° 


TT?^: 




X'^ 


*T*T: 


\ 






^vs 

nO^i: 



Jiftssrr^ 




X9 

X 

TJ^: 


x^ 

IT1% 


^c 

»Tf5fr 

8 

T \j 




ITI^tTfSj 


\<- 

>Tr?i7ft 


XH 

»Tr*^ 


'IX 


^0 




V 


Xo 

\o 


XX 

\s 

g3T%5fV: 




u 



*T^: 




Word 

Cli, 

St. 



n5T: 

8 

“iX 

501=64^ 



5ii?r: 


xs 

jpisri^tr: 


X 

5>ii4??r: 

x< 

XX 



XV 



XV 

5iiiJr%: 


XX 

gURW: 


XX 



XX 

?pi4»5m% 


XX 

ginr^ftcrs 

^8 

XX 

3-irr^ 

X^ 

X9 ^ 


/<« 

goirf^q^n^ 

X* 

g-n: 


XC 


X9 \M 

3^1 


X6 


X9 

J!i 



X^ 

=.x 


X9 

XX 


Xc -^o 

,VX 

3^'m 


XX 

3^: 

\% 

vx 

3^3; 


H.x 

SUrTirar 

% 

X 


v^ 

x® 

3^?3. 

x< 

XX 

3^3: 

\x 

X 

■ 

\c 

,«x 


''^'^ord 

Gh, 

Sti. 

3^^ 

\c 

XX 

3^1 


X<J- 

qoifer 


XX 

3^3: 

X 

X 

3Wf^ 


XX 

3^'3r 

X'^ 

c 



Xo- 

3^1^ 

*i 

X'x 



vxf 



XX: 



X 



Xo 

JTRX'sg 

T®T 

XV 

»?5Tf5r: 

8 

?IT 

v*. 



XX' 

4tx?3t 

?? 

v^. 



A 

'^J*^ 

^rx 


X 


X 

¥I 

XV 

fRT: 

1 

j 

STT 

X'x 

1 sjrtim 


V 




INDEX OF WORDS in the GI'l'A 


35 


Word 

Ch. 

St..; Word 

Cli. 

St. 

Word 

Ch. 

St. 



f^ti: ^ 


1 

,"1'. 1 

ss'^tfir: 

I ' 

t^ 

V 



etc., ^ 


1 

1 3^*rctn^ 

to 

XX 


n 





% 




1^ Dmf^T: 

?o 


fiscal 

8 



i\ 




1 

t'^ 

X 



i f^?cTq^ 




9 

^x 




t% 

^“1 

f^^iOT: 

'A 

^'A 



^ ^ ; f%s??T: 

to 


fawRCTa't 

t^ 

x» 

=aiagj^ % 

’aggaa 

^S}\'* 'f%?TrT 

W ^ V r%^ot 

t^ 

i 

f3?n«J3t. 

>* 

X<i 



V<f, 






'agr^'ar; 

v3 

1«, 1 





x^ 

=a?aR: 

t® 


n 

\ \> 



x^ 

=af?fTfR 


1 ^ , 5% 








^ * %f%?rra: 


'A 

StUrt: 


X 




«? 



C 

^x 

=aTf^ 

« 

'i'), ^ 

■) 



% 

Xv> 


% 

\%\ 

8 

X^ 


t\ 

^ 


» 



X“ 

jfrirr. 

VS 

'A.'iX 




to 

\ \ 




'af^i’aR^ 

It 

' 

t\ 

X 


?o 



?o 

%fIRT 

c 

c 

U 

^'iX.X 

“,XX 



?c 

<^\s 



t'^ 


’a55?3[, 




XX 


t% 

c 


t'9 

'' %er: 



5in?tT% 

to 

XVa 



'’WlRTafSiTt^- 



tt 

’.'A 

^1 




X't 


X 

'JjV'A 

^argtaaX 

8 

n ;_ f. 

% 

\'^ 




C 

«* ^ j 




^8 

X <: 


% 

'(S's 



5IHa5T^: 


’to 




t° 

x^ 

3lVfX(iT 


’tx 




t'^ 

\ 

5ia?iRf^ 


Xo 

t^-l 

1 









34 


GlTA-RAHASYA or KARMA-YOGA 


Word 

Ch. 

St. 

Word 

Oh. 

St. 

^R: 


n't 

mm 

to 


SRif^; 


1 

'i^ 

mmm^ 


X<i 

SrSTHTt^H 



mifm 


X 

ssjsirtsT 

? 


3*^5: 


X 



5T?r 


"i? 




! 3 t?re?(n^^r^ ^ 



lo 


5iyrf?r 

t 



•It 

'A'i 

|5lft 

tt 


5 Rt: 


'i^ 



^X 








\S 




^ V5 


srrnii 

3iriTf?r 
i 5rtri??i 

smrr: 

sjrfariJrflT: 

5113 




3I5'l|3pR’K5JIT3Rt. 




5i5iT3Tn^ « 


^rPirfXr \^ ’.0 


^^RgpvrfaffXig^r: 

i 

>? 

HI ' 

5TS*T^?53Rr5;%: 

i 

^8 

’>"1 


3li:JT^fg3I?T- 

5iRfrrRi 8 


3II5T3; 

strtRt 

5»R 


5TR?cT 

1 

15irg^ 


?o 

c 

U 
I 

^ -<0 

?8 

^8 

?o 

T^ 


4«, 

S’* 

°i-< 

^\ji 


'--v^ 


\o 


% 


Word 

Ch. 

St. 



vv 



XX 



fsR: 

'X 

XX 



X 

fsRTRlR: 


vs 

f^r;iTr 

?C 

'<fX 


9 

X'® 


tt 

XX 

f5Taf??q-: 

'X 

\s 

aftoTiOr ^ 





XX 



« 

sftg^jr: 

^'x 

>4 



■x 

5{\^% 

^'X 

vs 


t 

XX 

'-St 


% 

Xvs 



x^x- 




XV 



XX 


v9 

wm. \K 

^flr^T llo '<s\ 

^TRT 





INDEX OF WORDS in the GITA 


35 


Word 

Ch. 

St. 

Word 

Ch. 

St. 

Word 


Ch. 

St. 




8 




c 



% 1 

,V; 



3»rr!i?ft 



<» 


?8 

“i 


\S 

■3 

3qR; 












\0 

\'\ 



'^'A 


\o 'i,\C 




Iv* 

sjrwwR; 

l\ 

Ivs 




ssfHH: 

<S 




1 

lo 









V^ 

?8 '»,^SO'i 


3gr??fe:. 


XX 

? o 

?TR?IT?Tr 

8 

^ • 



‘I'A 

335RH 


XX 


^TR^f^cT 

8 


\c 



?r 




?0 

11 

j 


iRmrij; 


Xo 





HRlfil^ 

- 



cl 



^rtmi 




8 

“iS 

cTclH 




ssrr^^^^JT 

8 


syr^ndi: 

8 

I'* 



< 



8 

\\ 

STRrfi: 





% 

V 

sr’T^r^H 


'i'A 

! ^RRf*^ 

!8 

% 



XX 




\JO 

i 5IRT^«R- 

\ 



x^ 

'it 




1 %?r?r: 

8 

\\ 

?ra; 

1 

n etc. 







acj; 

? 


etc. 

T 

8 

1 o 

5fR«fInsi 



^rf^m: 







^0 



8 




XX 

^\s 



u 






8 

n 



1 

5rf?n:^r: 



?r?q-?i5TiJir: 


H 

Iv* 



1 

i 

g-rsft « 



cTesf^i^?C 


Xc 


9t?*ir 


dl 

^r% 

8 


a?f 


etc. 

gr^f^^Rsir- 



5TI^H 

8 





"4 

M-'i 


'A 

15 

;?tH. 



‘^1 


^8 



V9 

<1 



8 

'A 

^RHf^i5^r4- 

- 










8 

Ifl 



,'i<^ ; 







Ho 



1 



to 


S?R^ \ 



%«T: 

'A 

^ ' 


'A'A.'A'A 



36 

GITA-RAHASYA or KARMA-YOGA 


Word 

Ch. 

St. 

Word Ch. St. 

Word 

Ch. St. 


8 


H'T; » % 

?re*rr: 




'iS 

Xo H 

35!?: 

T etc. 




I 


cTT 




X'S 'A,'*Oy,'l'A.'i^ 

tTRT 

^ Yo 



11 


ftrf^ 



\ 

^x\ 

X< 


?8 H 


\\ 


cItTig <C \6 


% '‘A 

?I*IT 

\ c etc. 

rt^rfir \ 1 ^ 


X< '>^ 




?f7tfir: 'lie 

flT^ 

X '»etc. 




8 ^e 

miTflf^H ^V9 To 



0 S3 

X'^ 

cTTR^TJ^ 

X^ 'iX,i‘^ 


X 

1 

rteq!^ \'S 'A 

1 


9 


<2 ^ 

?c 



8 

Vi 

'I'i 

cTTW^T: 

X< 




^8 

mw?TT: 

V9 T'^ 




STOT \<C 


?8 \e- 




?fn% t8 

1 

X'S Y 

^8 'i'i,,'^'*^ 

rm: t® '^'1 

rTTTT^ft 

?V9 > 

?T^T?irr’fi; 


«) ss 

1^8 


Xic 



=1X3 

X^ 'I 

ttrar^ 

Y^ 

cT^srwm: < 


\\\ 

ftT?Tm 

^8 V 

?i5^ 


\JO 

1 ^ YY 

am 

V9 HT 

crf|r^: 


=1 

a 

j 

iC T^ 

?tg^ 

^9 

HI 

?r^: ^ ’ Y 


^V9 ^ 






1% 

?r%BT: 


ss 

|a:?f5=tr vs iy 

fafrt^^a 

^ TY 

tiTs^n^ 


IS 

i ?<1 'A^ 


'A 

<TT«I 

n 

'Al 

i X \ etc. 


X'^ 


?V9 


1 etc. 


x< %% 




\H \ 


X^ ^vs 




?i?!!T ? etc. 

fa'gf^a 

^8 TC 


V9 



fasfe 

Xo 'l^ 



INDEX OF WORDS in the GITA 


37 




Word 

(jh. fcrt. Word 

Ch. St. 

Word 

Ch. St. 

n 



t<2 1'' 

g ? 

H etc. %5T 



t 5^ 



8 


^ ^,^<:,'A^ 


H ^'A 


8 


>,8 

^ vv 

»A 



tt 


^ X-x 


\R n 

tV9 

I X< ^A,'a'i 



'io 


C % 


^8 

H 'i^ 

<«rag 

c n 

g^^: >.8 


» 


X^ 

gs; 


% 


td C,V<5 

gfe: 

lo 

Xo '\o,^^\ 

?qHTK55*^ X<C i 



X^ 


t.i T 

g«?l^?r 

to Sj 

^V9 ^vs 


X< 

■'1 



jqrir: 

t^ ^ 



'A *.A 


Xc -xA 

'! 

I 

v9 1*. 


t^ I’t 

g%! 

to ^6 j 

% 





5qtn 

x< ^ 


t8 

% 

?«IT3?m 

t<s 


^r: 

1 



5r 

^ ? 

^ etc. 1 

'A 'i’A 


t^ 


^9 I® 

a H®,^o 




to U : 

?Tt 


^ Vo 

§5t; 1 

a S.l® 

% 


tc ''^ 


to 



« 'iX 



^ n 


t^ 


m 1 



t'i V" 





t^ ^'1 


\X \o ?*rawft^: 1 \ 




\l vv* ??ig;H^>iR- 

Xc 



tt JTf! 

8 


t« 




38 


GiTl-RAHASYA or KARMA-YOGA 


Word 


Ch. 

St. 


\C V 

,1«: 



?V9 




ic 

*>c 

fill 





• 


,^'i 










1 


%fHrT; 


% 

H® 


wr 





\ 

’t'*. 

IBTrl: 


n 


?^?5rerT?in 

u 

v»X 

isrWJT: 


ii 





n 


n 

V'J 





u 







u 


i^fir 



X 

?^?JnoiT: 


w 




'i'1 

etc 

mx ^ 


=(,1'i, 












'j' etc. 








IS 


<: 




lo 







Word 

Ch. 

St. 



I’t 

^ifit 




n 



% 


^vrfir 

t8 


^■ 3 : 

1 

^6 

A #k 

1 


^?T*rarJ3: 

to 

\<^ 

^*r: 

to 

V 


t^ 

1 

^ntJTO’^r- 

X<c 



t^ 

“1® 

^vr: 

t^ 

V 


VS 


g^: 

VS 


^ilR 

t^ 

<i\i 


Xs 



t^ 



t^ 

V 


t^ 

16 


x< 

M 


XX 


^ ll 




s,^® 


XX 

■if^S 


x^ 

H 

^5TSTrs*?t^ 

XX 

^VS 


X 




x< 

VS 


Word 

Ch. 

St.. 

^»w!rn 

Vs 

^® 

^RfiB^IT: 

Xs 



to 

l-if 


to 

'I 


t^ 

1. 

t« 

'»»'^\° 





tc 

S,%‘i,vS 


XS 

V\s- 


XX 

HS 


< 

=.6. 

^tIi! 

XX 

V6 



I’l 


x^ 

’."A 

f^ 

% 

’t® 


XX 



Xc 

^0 




XX 

11 

fiE5qiTr5iTT*^«r?3: 



XX 

11. 


8 



<i 

,1® 


to 

IX 


tt 

6 


to 

Y® 

f^SJflfsT 

tt 

1 

f^s?n^^«rarg^i3i: 



tt 

1® 



X® 


tt 

n 





INDEX OF WORDS in the GITA 


39 


Word 

Ch. 

St. 

f^B^IT: \o 



1 

'iv 

f^3(T: 





r\ 



^«T: 

% 



n 

\-<i 




n 



n 

5or 





Iv* 


.•,’.=1 



?«2 

^4 

% 





TV 



■4? 



Y O 






\} 

fft*- 

t 

'■^x 


u 



l< 



1 



% 

VH 


8 

£ 






V") 



‘l“ 





Word Ch. St. 


^V9 «> 




f:^?T ^ 

')'j 


X 


x^ 

^0 




x^ 

X 

x^ 

XX 

X€ 

c 

l-.^^n. x< 

XX 

<: 

■Hv 




^X 




X'X 


'\'X 

S 



XV 

^^sRIT: ^ 

H4 


TV 


^v 

?c 

XV 

55^ X'^ 

X 

XX 

V\S 

€2^1^ XX ■' 

.^,'"X 


XX 


Word 

Ch. 

St. 

5 f^ 

X^ 



i ^,^-> 





XX ^ 

“."^X.V^ 



V^,V'^ 

''X 


% 


XX 

X^VJ-.V^ 

l^m: 

8 

XX 

^di^TiiJI 


X'X 



X''. 


XX 

XX 

^gt%3iiiW^3wn 



XV 



So 



’X 


^0 

XX 


?0 

XX 


?0 

XX 


XX 

XX 

^^ 9 rdT: 

% 

X'X 


%l XX 

XV 


^0 ^ 

,xx 



XX. 



XX 



XN 


U 

X^ 



V 

^ 911 ! 

> Xo 

,xx 



XV 



'xX 

^t 5 r U 

X%X'^,^'x 


X^ 

v» 



40 


GITA-RAHASYA or karma-yoga 


Word Ch. St. 

^ ‘i 

'i'i 

?8 =1^ 

'A 

%f?ig?r^i=3[, ?8 

.8 s 

^rj?RJrr%: ^ t ^ 
^ T <£ 
^ Vo 
?8 

\'S ^ 

itt ^ 

*4 1^ 

?8 

< ^,v 

^8 1 

t^^jrrat lo 

8 

\< IV 

t^ft « 'iv 

H 

% n 


Word 

Gh. 

St. 





IT 



ic \ 


% \^,\^ 



VC 

\ •*. ^ 

\ 





?ri^Tlf^3qr; \\ 



?o 



8 


?^fscr 

X% 


8 


^sq^rarr: 

8 

’tc 

^r 


X''. 

%l \,^ 


V^,V<5,H?,HV 

s-qr^3%<n 

X 

\ 

W^- 

X 

V,1c 


X 

V 


XX 

^v 

Sf^oi: 

XX 


?rq^^r: 

X 

%,'>ie 


5 


v» 




\\3 

?5: 

?0 

XX 

tSTcfier; 

8 

44 

t%- 


^ 

§:t?^ 


41 


Word 

Ch. 

St. 

%#4m 

X 

'* 



X 


X^ 

IS 

t^: 

x^ 

X 

tfe 


V,v» 



X 



Iv* 


^8 

44 



X® 



4S 

?V 

^"4 

n 



X 

^I5TJTHT*t9[r- 

^q5ir: 

^4 

I'i 



IX 

X 

VC,vs 


8 

Vi 


\s 

v» 


% 

s 


X^ 

s 

x< 

4S,'s4 

>an3I*l: 


I's 


?o 

X^ 



IV 

vRiOr 

X 


vrg^i; 

?C 

vsC 

>^3: 


4o 

^fljptJTisrH ^<2 

XV 

vt4^ 

X 

1 

«r4H3^=t?ri: 


V* 




INDEX OF WORDS in the G1T& 


41 


Worcl 

Oh. 

St. 




sttV 

8 

6 



Vo 


8 

\s 





^8 

^VS 



VlflffJIT 




V9 

*11 

•vT 

\ 

Vo 

\c 






?c 

\i o 






^0 

>sn?rT 


'i's 





< 


>anT 

C 

'<') 


^0 



\l 





Xc 










'i^ 

’iir&TT^ 




? 

'1‘S 





\ 






<3 



Word 

Oh. 

St. 

Word 

Ch. 

St. 




«TI%^ 


\>t 

vftqgrr 



w^f«ra: 





v^. 



e 






^VJ 

V7t?: 


'IV 

1 




^8 


: 5^= 


^\» 






Mi 

vJJT: 

< 


’T \ 

X® 

etc. 

'■15^ 



ijisr: 





Vi 

5i5trannm 


\'\ 


¥ 


i SIc(RI»^ 

u 



ll 


HW: 

1 

n 


1 


iI3^:^S5rat. 

n 

’tv 


-K'^ 


% 

tv 


n 

'<v 

iiJ«*Tf?cr 

x^ 


'jRr: 

?0 


!IJT: 


^v 



i. 




\ 







U 

R \i 


XX 

X'* 

>25^Tr X<^ 





'«53?Hrf?ijrf55rfr; 



X^ 

^x 


?c 

1 


X 

v^ 

'2H%3: 

? 

^ I 


X 

vv 

'2B?r?r: 

? 

'j'i 


x^ 

tx 





X 




i 


XX 

?c 


\o 


il?: 


’Ot 

X< 




’tX 





x^ 






x^ 






42 


GITA-RAHASYA OR KARMA-YOGA 


Word 

Ch. 

St. 

Word 

Ch. 

St. 

Word 

Ch. 

St^ 


5Tr5WTfJr 

to 


RWr: 

^ ’lo 

4V 


to 


>Tr5n*T tt 



fstfJTifirgtjBrHm 





*rr%a»?. 


IV 

% 

44 


o 



- 




tv 

5TtTfiT<m 

to 


ftinr 


^v» 

Ot^rsr^^iTRr^tw^ 



t« 


JTrfe^rnn 


It 


l< 

t^ 



‘It 

sirfta 


tt 


t 

t't 

sf^rfSr ^ 


1% 





ttf 






t1 


tt l^tv 



^0 


t«: 

tt 



tt 

5re: 

8 





f^rai;: 

t<i 

t“ 



'*t 




OiavTf^ 

8 

vt 

srerwRs 

t^ 




tv 



4 

*IHT^ 





tt 


t8 \v»,v 

«r% 

\ 

Vo 

f5I?^5TT<f3^ 

t 

^t 


t^ 

*4 

1 


8 

■Ro 


8 

44 





<: 

IV 


<4 

t4 

5TT 



MfJTqfR: 

>» 


<)\» 


t«l 

tv» 

*liiTr?n^ 

to 



<1 

tv 


t 

\» 

sn^ron^f^ 




t*? 

t 


1<C tt 

."A- 

STrsT^ulfP^ftf^ 



> 

t^ 

wmtmra^ tt 

tt 


tt 


fsif^5T: 


tv 

f^fnTfrftr 

t 

f 

sinTrf^'irrPi 

tt 




VH 



4 

srnn^T^sTf- 




't 



4*4 

Toit: 

t 




tc 


t< 

\> 

sRs^rnrft^ 


6 



t 

vv 



tvs 






?n^«T: 

t 

\s 



t 


U 

5IT?^: to 



to 

^ 

ftiaarmfiT: d 


inftoin?, 

to 



tt 


ftraar?!?! 

: 8 






t^ 


ftraar: 


^ O 


t^ 



t< 



V9 









INDEX OF WORDS in the GITS 


43 


Word 

Ch. 

St, 

Word 

Ch. 

St. 

Word 

Ch. 

st.- 





ic 








^ri'i'n^cTOT 




^4 

4 






<4^ 



Vi 4 



<^4! 

f^^v. 

\\ 

'A'Ai 

1 


4C 



1 



H* ' 

1 






1 

\%; 


< 

1 






1; 


^*4 



\0 




1 



44 



\i£ 







*3 







?‘4 


3 

X 

^"4 


» 

^4 1 

r^raf^g^j; 








V 

fsrgfH«5r/« 


c 





8 

^«> 



4'4 

1 

XX 




"AS f^ariH: 

% 

4<i i 

i 33 


i 


1 


fjTlwfH 

\9 

44 ! 

1 








v» 





<: 



ic 

I" 

\<C 

v^ 


U 


Tii%w*r 


c 


9 

V 



4^: 

f^r ^ 

% 

A,^A 


x< 

4C 

f^^5l: 





y 

%f&45r?i, 

<4 

44 


<4 

, 

4A 


% 


^T 





V'A 




; 54t 

t'» 

4C 


<4 


r%«^r 




xc 

4^ 

Ot^JT: 

$ 

1 

Rr%^ 




x< 

4 



4q ; 


Ic 


«7 





4X 

f%fai?fT: 


44 






'at 

fsif«<^ 


4 

; ’T%oiiflt 

Xo 

X“ 


?8 


mgr 



T=^f^I 


4X 


?8 

45 



4 

7=^rftr 

X'^ 

4v 


1*4 

'"I 


ic 

U^o 


x^ 

H 



Va 

rN ^ 

r^T^go?!; 


'i\ 

?c 

4^,4^ 



4^' 

fsffm: 

ll 

\\ 


x^ 

4^ 



44 


GITA-RAHASYA OR KARMA-YOGA 


Word 

Ch. St. 

Word 

Ch. St. 

Word 

Ch. 

St. 



X^ 

'm 

\ 



^ 'IX 


X XVI 


X^ 

v^o 


8 n 

'i?^rr 

X 

l^lfoi 


ys^ 




x^ ^ 

1 'Txrat 

8 

X^ 




tvs X'S 




'T?ir: 

n 


<2 ^ 

j 

vs 

v^ 

<TcTrp?r 

X 

'i^'Tig 

^ XX 


1 

X’t 




Xo ^ 

' 



'ism 


1 <11^*1 

tvs x«. 

1 

ts 




' 'll*!. 

^ X ^.''A 

1 



^ 'Al 

1 ^ 

t2 


<2 'i'l 


8 V 

i iftqitran: t<2 

vs,Xvi 



i 

VS XX, 

1 'Tft%BH 

tvs 

XX 


?<2 HX 




Xc 

"xx 

'T9rtT?m 

To 

j 

^ XX 

tv9 

XX,Xm 


^ VI 

1 

1 

to x^,x^ 




'll?!: 

X V-<1 l\ 


X^ 

yy 


^ X*^ 

I 

XX.Xvs.X^ 


Xo 


'Tl'iUim 

^ X'A 

j 

t8 X.x-^ 

'ifi^rfir 

x< 

X^ 


l< Vvs 

1 

X< '®'x 

'T^iil Xi 

X 

'*,X<t 


^ X,<i,X'l 


^ X 

Tft5«I3ST 

x< 

XX 


lo 

^ 1 

i 

8 ^,H,XX 

'lft??n*T: 

x^ 

M 


1 

vs 

qflstrnm 

8 

c 


x! 

1 

^ ^1 


X 





to '<f» i 

qfX^qJTT 



IIH: 

^ x^l 


t^ 

qftqf^«i#r 


Xxf 

IWriiTT 

^ vs' 

1 

X< ^x 

qftqwq 

8 

Xy 



! 


qfiJiff?r5i«m 



1v» 

'T?*q?TsrtHm 8 ^ 


X'^ 

y 

'iiirm 

XX.X^RX 

>1?: 

8 -if- 

qftg«*rfff 

X 



X<c V«. 


<2 'lOj'I'V 


8 

XX 


IX X 


t^ 

qa?q: 


'ixy 



INDEX OF WORDS in the GIT A 


45 


Word 

Gh. S^. 

Word 


Oh. 

St. 

Word 

Ch. 

St. 


^ Ilf 



8 



x< 

\»c 

'lonRr 






qrsqpi 

?c 

\sy 



qi^^q^xR 



n'A 

qrqtq 

?! 

A 


\ V 

qii^q 


8 


qrq?; 


n 


8 ’^’A 






?0 



% 




A'A 



% 




18 

^•4 

qrqqrOr 

?c 



I'S <\o 




^ 




qqrim 

lo 

qm^q: 


“^y 


f^T?; * \ 

y4 

qqq: 

\o \^ 



?! 

'iX 

f^r 



qfq^i^ 

8 

qroqqrqr^ 

Xo 


?! 

vs.yy 



qtoqqisft^^i. 

X 

4 


?8 

y 



qTuqqr: 


X 

'i 

fiRHHf; 

? 

n 

q?^ 

\ 

qtofgqtoirH. 

X 




<ivs 



qrq^iH. 


X 


f^fTWg^Tq^ 

? 




qiq 


?» 

4o 

fqqrtTfT: 

X 


q^q^; 


qrq^qir: 


8 

3^ 

fq^qiTi: 

1 

A'A 

q^t% 


qrq^qq: 




fq^prn; 

Xo 

4A 


’A 'A, A 

qiqqt. 




X 








% 



1 



3« 

qi 




X< '>^,'15 



<4 

1'A 

qt^rqr 

?« 

n 


<4 A 



\9 

4<: 

3 





qrqrq^ 


X 


3oq^«DiT^i^ 


4c 



qrqr: 





x^ 

VJ*) 

q5qf% 

X 

qr^ 


<4 

4° 

S^q^qin 


yl 


X\ 

qrq^q; 


8 



c 


?'4 

4»,'i1,'l'i 

qrq^ 



A 


% 


q^qifir 

X 

qrcHiqi^ 



y'1 


X^ 



^ u 

iir^'sqH; 


X^ 

y 

^asT: 


A 

?? 


qrq 


’.'A etc. 



u 



! qr^; 


? 


S'»q 

% 




4i GITA-RAHASYA 


Word 

Ch 

St. 

Word 



g^TW 


IX 

vv 



X 



g^r: 

X 


g^’^h^^T^ 


XX 


g^TlJT: 


8 \ etc. 


giTu^ 


'Si 

3'^ 



Vo 

g?t«r?Trn, 

s?f 



g«*^rf*T: 




g^urfir 


€ 


3"n?: 

gar'll: 


:(o 

gf'grn^ 


XX 


gw: 

g?roft 

X'^ 

'•f 


g?i?nt: 

8 


gSTT?)- 

gs^r: 

gfiqicn: 

g^^w 




X< 

V 

g'rr: 

g% 

gj^W: 







c 

•i.V 


?e 


« 


X\ 

t •>. 



V 


g^: 


•R-) 

V 

1? 

gif: 


c 

■>i,w 



XX =1^,^ 

g'E^jtfiT 

\\ 





*)« 






g^r: 

<1 

X 



OR KARMA-YOGA 


Ch. 

St. 

Word 

Ch. 

St. 

<c 



% 

X'X 


X’A 

tc 

XX 


XX 

X 


t< 

XV 




tc 

XI 

X'^ 


gsrfJsri^; 

to 

'x 

tH 

xt 

gfV^q^ 

t 

xc 


■ix 

gf*T^tg 

t 

x^ 

to 


gfXjswrg 

V9 

"X 

tt 

XX 


X< 

If o 

tH 

XX 

^Bct: 

XX 

va 


xs 

qi 




ifX 

«frosg 

X 

x^ 


XX 

qratg 

X 

XX 

% 


qNr: 

X 

XV 


V 

’fr^qg 


6 

XX 

■»fX 


Xc 

X'A 

% 

\o 



VX 

8 

x» 

q 




Xo 1 


t8 

X 


ST^RIwf^ 


XX 

8 


t^ 

XX.XX 

tt 

e 

XX 

sraBT^rg 

t8 

XX 



SI*I5T: 

V9 

X'x 

to 

X 


t8 

XX 

8 1'A, 

,X'*. 

JT^t^ir 

tt 

XX 

I 


SI^Rt3tH[ 

t^ 

XX 


\» 



'x 

X 



t-c 

V a 

H 

If 

uf flrww^rg 

XS 

t^ 

V 

JTfT%^wqr: 

t8 

'X 

x< r 

,xv 

Jlf%?ST: 

t^ 

XX 




INDEX OF WORDS in the Gif A 


47 


Word 

Ch. 

St. 

Word 

Gh. 

St. 

Word 

Ch. 

St. 


\j 




j Jnrff 


V 



U. 



^'l 

ir'T«rs% 

8 

11 


8 


ir'ii5?Tf^ 


■tf o 






ifn^^nOi 

\9 


JiTsm; 


V* 




! SlfaiVJf?T 


Vif 

! srq^?T 

u 

■»% 


il 


j jiDiti^h 

8 


SI'r5’T%: 

1 




sr^fT^rq; 


*1^ 

1 

j srq^^irfTT 


C 


\3 

V 

i 5if?r 



: Jif^rarn^: 

n 




1o 

nfqjTTsftfl 



^ srvrT% 

< 

1\ 




1 sfcTSIt^ 


S'A 


< 

1<£ 


%c 


1 ^ •v 





1. 

sr^: ^ 


Sffa^VfieqTfiT 


■Y 

^ 3T¥f^ 

\0 



% 


srfser 

?8 

■^\S 

irvrq; 

ts 


ST???!! 



! 


I'l 


% 

1C 




a%f%qspj; 




lo 

6 

SrHAT: 

\0 

'<<: 

nfqfgtn 9 



q»Tf%'!g 


1^ 



'A’A 



n^r 


C 



-If) 




JTHl'^ET 



Ji5Tniri% 

\C 




’^. ' 

^W- 

<4 

IV 

srsirjrii'^ 

n 

j 

sr?qqt%g 




% ic^y 

sT5Tr7r%: 


To 

ST^qqTJI: 


Ifo 

iTirt 

?■? 

V 


ii 

* 





?8 

’ll 

STW: 


iH*- 1 



: 

JIJTr>iTq^ 


’ll 


^.0 

ij 

srfiTrr; 




K% 

RV 

sr^r 

^ H\» 

^ j 

II?A-!T5; 

? 

U 1 

srmf'T 





nf^eq; 

< 


iifrrsftfH 



sr^Rrr^r^ 


1'! 



’t'A j 

!TqT??rt|^r 

?8 

Ivs 

sr^r^i: 


^VS 

srfe^rfpT 


’f'i ! 

IT*ir?: 

?8 

1^ 

stut^T \ l 

r^A'A, 


srfc<7?cr: 


1C ■ 

HKTTirrgc 

?? 

VI 

sT'n#^ 

n 

Vi 

5iqE: 

U 

i 

sTfrrsfT^^q'- 



n'n^: 

^9 

6 

STT^r^fT 

l\ 

1 

fq^rP^: 

?8 

£ 

sroT^^if^ 



STT?!^ 


1 


\2 




48 


GITA-RAHASYA or KARMA-YOGA 


Word 

Oh. 

St. 

Word 

Ch. 

St. 

Word 

Ch. 

St. 





t« 

4V 


tt 

V*) 

srg«!j^ 






ir?Tf^5!rs^i^ 


To 


to 



tt 



tt 

yv 




s»f^^TEn% 

t<i 

V") 



%'i- 

snraTJimt 




8 


ir«T^ 


4'4 

ir«i?5Ti5t, 




^ V4» 


SJT%>:%r^ 

t 

c 


\9 

2," 

STf^: 

tt 

X’- 

STHI? U 


C 


1 

tt 


W^J^TT 

tH 

V 

JRmt: 


1 

t8 


Jf^r: 

t*4 

■4 

smif^ 

<: 

\n! 


t^ 

Vi 

ST??T5J: 


4 “ 

JT^^K: 




t^ 

1 





tv9 


JT^ra; 

t8 

4R 


tt 

\% 

STST^ 

<4 



t*4 


sTfs^fj; 


\o- 



tc 



to 

1- 

jrar«r: 



sif% 

t 


SITfcT: 

tfj 




ic 


tt 


sn^ 

*4 


sr^fSrrrfli; 


'i'l 

sri% 

t8 

'1^1 

irrST^y^: 

tt 


JR5^ 

t8 



tt 

''V 


8 


SRft^T: 

t8 


Jr5^rf>^?r5^ 

tt 


srroTJj; 

8 

^4. 

sTcthr^ 

<: 


sis^T»i5Trf?n[ifflir 


<2 

4 

0,4^ 


c 



tt 


Jirura; 

t 


si^sjsnfJi 

8 


JT«?TfsTrrT: 

tt 

i 


8 

\o- 


\ 

n 

sr5i?% 


i 

iri’JiT'iT5Tn?fr: 

8 

\% 


w 



^\i 

5iroinTTJr?T*Tr- 




t8 

4 

jRns?r^*r 




tM 

4y 

irass^r 

C 


5f5ir??iI?«T 



snoiiTi^i 

'4 



to 



t^ 


sri'm^fTJt'i^T- 





V'< 

arH#5T 

tC 


^TOIT: 

8 



*4 

V 




SKfoT^rm 

t'4 

4'* 



TV 

irH?rr5?Tj 


''.'if 

irm 

8 

•>A. 


to 

c 

JT^lOT 

tt 

X'S 

uroiig 

8 



t^ 

lo 

SftT»T»J. 

t 


in^r5?i?r: 

to 

4 A 



INDEX OF WORDS in the GITA 49 


Word 

Oh. 

St. 

Word 

Ch. 

St. 

Word 

Cb. 

St.. 

WT^r: 






«K^[(sir 

t< 



?C 

vjt) 

ifTrriTJir: 


V-t 

'R^ 


14 





^0 

I" 



'll 

Ujvtf 


ifrf?r: 

? 







1^" 

J ift^UTIOIW 

to 


=?fl 

t 

VH 



^<1 


t'S 

■<! 

I 








^snfcT 

t8 



% 



tc 



8 

4V 


H 


ifi^rq; 

8 




\'* 





< 

=1 


*4 

\ 


>«i 


1 









1 

t'S 

'ii 


t 


STH^T^ 



j 

tc 





sir4q5a 



itItu: 

8 



9 

IT 

Jir?- 






1 ^srgfri; 


U 

snfj 




to 

'<■ o 

1 

t^ 

IV 



=1 


t^ 


1 

t "1 

o^'j o 




|jit^ 


t 


'S 

IT 





tc 

‘'V 

1 

t^ 

’\C 



1 

t<i 

n 


t<c 




'At 

! 

tc 


sr^Tti; 


\\ 




\s 


5if^: 

t 

% 







8 

I-' 






>t% 


tt 


fjf?T: 

V9 


9 


gf|: 


T'* 





M 

'<f 


t^ 

'W 


n 

"irv 


\9 





ivs, 





tt 

Tt 









'1'4 


l9 

\s 





V 


l< 


?<C «> 



?o 

VT 

fimi: 




tc 



Tt 





so 


GIT A-R AH ASYA OR KARMA-YOGA 


Word 

^ffSr 

^r 

^rar: 

f% 

Rw^r 

^5isri?: 


li:^: 

lR:5Tr5r: 

li^^TTifirf); 

f%3FrrH=^ 

l%g'?»5r: 


Ch. 

St. 

Word Ch, St. 



?o T* 

u 


\C 'AVS 

u 


5(%qlTri?j; ? vT 

8 








IX ^ 

8 






'i<^ 

^ T,'rfo^„-:t 



« V,To 

^0 ■if 

'T 


V 


\’\ 

?C T'^,\o,3«|,3^ 

ft: ^ V^,VX 


\'» 

%C 


«|\j 

1^-^r ^ n 


V 

H To 


To 



T<i 

\<1 'TT 

^0 

X^ 

?'T 510 


VT 

'T 


RT 

l'?r: 8 TT 



\o <s 






^0 


To 

^ «K ^ 

8 

T<: 

^0 


’^o 



'To 

8 T '5, 


'tT 

T'JijT^ 


Word 

Ch. 

St. 


^o 

T 





? 

vs 


^0 

TX 

rm 

^ T\T'T 

8 ^.v,^v,H 

^,^T 



^,T^ 



-A 

C 

T,I,T^,^.V 


^0 

T^ 


X\ 


?.8 



Xc 

^o 

sr^T^H 

X< 


sI5I^j|¥TRlR5ir 



8 

f.v 


< 

TT 



T-^ 

sr§i=^TRsr^ ^ 

T^ 

3il>il: 

8 

U 





C 

T\* 


XX 

^vs 


CO 



?k9 


sriToiT 

8 

^-If 

srirfoi \ 

To,TT,^o 


vs^ 



ST5I^5n^ 


^vs 

sTU^: 

'T 







INDEX OF WORDS in the GiTA 


51 


Word 

Gh. 

St. 

SlHJ?TTq- 

?.8 





sr?i5Ttngf»"j?JTi 





srgr^rf^^T^?, 

\'S 


sr^rf^'t 



srilf%=?: 


’.V 




a5I?Jj5»T^: 


V 

srurnr 8 

V<! 


s^glT>n^^ 


‘1'', 




i^T 



3r5i<ii^f5i!!rfg5Tm, 



y< 

'i'\ 

sT^i'n^ 



sirST'JTT! 

% 

U 




3rsi5i 



sfrift 



c 

^ff 

R 

\s 




Vi 



vf^r. 

8 

X 



H=l 




^’F.r: 


3,^ 


%■<<> 


AVord 

Gh. 

St. 

»Tf^=^ynsi 

?8 




£ i 

iT%: 


1" 


^ <10 






'^1S 



EE 

1 




?0 


^.0 

1° i 



3 A ’ 



n 


'-i 

y\j! 



: 

»rnfF5T 


’’V 

4TH5=% 

^ '1^ 

,Ei 


?0 

c ’ 




W3irf5r 

8 

TV 


^.0 

V 

i 


^e' 


^ V" 

,V o 

tr^riJfSFrOT 

u 

E 'J: 

^TqriTJV 

ic 

\» . 

VT«rTgf: 


VA' 


n 

■sE 



VI 




< 

E^ ! 



E^ I 


?8 

AE 



3^ 


Word 

Ch. 

St. 

IT^flW’g 


IE 

\<C 

X 

'4T5T^ 

% 




EE 



^E 



v^ 


<L 

Evs 


% 

^V 


n 





E^,«,E 

■4T??fT: 

8 

V 


?8 

■^vi 


t 

vv 






■^V 


8 



% E,1\s,v^ 


\3 

E? 


\ 

X*) 

?8 G*'i 

^E-) 






'IE 


n 



K 

"n 

vr£r[% 

31 

Tv 


^0 

E 



X 

^T5r: 

?o 

8 

wsrr^ 


c 


^0 

TE 






52 


GlTA-RAHASYA or KARMA-YOGA 


Word 

Oh. 

St, 

Word 


Oh. 

St. 

Word 

Ch. 

St. 


n 


vrra^T^ 

tH 




6 

vrsrrm 


Vi 

wm: 

tt 



t^ 

t 

^rf^cTT 

\< 


»Tr^g:?tr 


to 

■n 

>JJ»niT: 

<r 

tv 


\0 


W: 


tt 

r< 

^UTSSTivrr- 






fwwr 


V9 

v 


t^ 

t“ 






tt 










tt 



t^ 


vr{^«!!nw; 



^lOr 


tt 


»jaw<| 

t^ 

tt 


« 

\ 

Vi 



tt 



to 



n 

'i^l 

^USpTtT 


t 

'i'A 





\ 






t 

MT 





t 

"lo 




\ 

etc. 

iftflrTi?WTri: 

t 

V 



tt 

vrrw^rr 


1 









1'^ : 



t 



tt 


^rraf’^fcr; 


'n 



t 

*1^ 


t^ 

t 



I'l 









c 



tt 



to 

tv 




W':R.- 


t 

c 

^5Trf^J3t 

% 

tt 

\s 




tt 

\\ 





\\ 

»fl'!HTf»??%- 






% 

"n 

! ^ 

9 

t 

'i® 


8 t'V 

VTI^: 

c 

*1^ 

Vj^O 


% 




t,Vt 


to 

\c 

V 






< 



<^VJ 

i 


t^ 

\<\ 

% 


^rr^r: 

^3 

’\\ 

ws^ 


tt 

\\ 

t*^ 

Tt.n 


to 

'\ 




It 


8 

t 


to 

<1\J 



t*^ 

t ® 

to 



^TT%: 


n 



9 



tt 


Vfl^^ 






tv 


t^ 

t^ 

WI^T 



^cl?TiHT^ 


t« 



tc 





INDEX OF WORDS in the GITA 53 


Word 

Oh. 

8t. 

Word 

Ch. 

St, 

Word 

Ch. 

St. 


?<: 

\si 

^Tiir?q; 



W?T: ^ 

XX,vx 

,^vs 



■-!, 

ql^q; 





X'i 


?0 

'i'*, 





Xc 

-x 


V9 

'll 




WTT 


X 


c 


•qtnrq; 


'A , 



'x 








X'x 


\\ 


wfinr: 


XX 

W!5r: 


X 


XiC 



■3 5^ 

qffl: 


XX 

rtr 


•qtnT 


U 

\<C 

,\Si 



x° 


-Xl 



XX 



,n 

^w4srfT* 




^'X 




^KTsrrq, 


vv 



X® 


IX, 

srlrir: 

? 

XX 

: 

\$ v»,XX 


^9 




1o 

i 

\o 



«i 

C 


» 



• 

X'x 



^0 

wwRr 

\ 

x» 

i nmq: 

! 

U 

'X'X 




«l|q; 

\ 

XX 


XR 

X® 



\ 

wrrnrq; 

\C 

XX 

WflTJ 


XX 


?0 1 







XV 

\\ 

X\XS,'^‘' 


I 



Xc 



l> 




^\J 


*i 

XV 


^8 

'i 


c 

X® 

1 

X^ 

X 



'tf 




1 q?!tHEri^rq; ^X,E<^ 





?o 

XX 

: qfgtr 


x^ 

*1: 


v'ji 



TV 


?s 

c 


?0 






vx 


1 

'j 

q%^r; 

^0 


WfWfS'ITqt 


X^ 



HS 

wf^q'nr: 

V9 

\> 

Hf?!'<!Tlfq 

^ %%x 

w4: 

? 

"iX 

q?rn 

^ X'i,X^ 

q^g*i?r*r 

XX 

X 





V9 

Xi 

JT^Nq; 

x^ 

X® 

irtTfr 


i^ 




1 V 

q^sT 

X 

«, 





?c 

X 

q^Toiq, 


Xvj 




54 GITA-RAHASYA or KARMA-YOGA 



Word 

Ch. 

St. 

Word Ch, 

St. 

! Word 

Ch. 

St, 




^8 


W3'^5 

8 

T c 


vs 

T 

?o 


( 

u 

T^ 

?T?»T?rJITinT: 

?0 


8 

“i 

1 JT5; 

8 

T 



Y\5 

TfW ^ Tj'^jVT. I 


9 


Tf^vr^: 



^ TT 

,‘)T 



TT 



H't 

: ^ 

^v 

j JT?^S«I: 


3o 


Tv 

,T^ 

, €. 

To 


^vs 

TT 



T<; 

TT?r: 1 

T” 

3Fl??t: 


TT 


u 







Rir?KT: 

vs 


^ VO 


JT^JT^rr: 


TV 



^v 

' *4 

T'<> 


?c 

T'"> 




^ T'sTv,^^ 

JT^fl^TT: 

8 

To 


8 

To 



»? 

T^ 




vs 

Y j 



^VS 



T^ 

C 

T^, i 

1 





T^ 

^0 

i 

i 


?c 

f 

*r^r^5 

lo 


?! 

V-A 


VS 

^,v 


% 





»; 

■^.T 

WfTTsft 

% 

TV 

?H 

■<, 


?! 

V 


?c 



TT 



'"A 



TT 

ITSl:iT?TT^{ ^VS 

TT 



J V 

jTanrr«T«T: 



;TJT:irr5tf^^- 



?o 

TV 


1 


ftiw \c 

TT 

TT?^?! 

VT 

d 



V 


\s 

JTW 

? 




\ T i ? 

^T 



c 


<: 


; ?c 

T 



'<\ 



T 

Ic 

'^i 


8 

TT 




vFig«^^% 


^S 

TVjT'J 

,’.v 


U 

T^ 

ngvsqr'irr^i; \ 

VV 1 


C 

^T 

\ 



vs 

T i 


% \ 

.TT 



To 

»Tg«=^r: \ 

^T ; 

?0 

\J,Vo 

,vT 


< 

To 

8 

TT 

?! 


;vT- 




INDEX OF WORDS in the GITA 


55 


Word 

Oh. St. 

Word 

Ch. 

St. 

Word 

Ch. 

St. 



JTffr: 


Yo 


X< 

X,XX 


ts 

Jlfrir 

8 

■5 

TT^^r^fTlf^T 

X^ 

H 


l'^ 





XX 

'«. 


XC 



V 

TTfTXiif: 

X 

■»,X '* 




X 

V* 

;T?TiC4T: 

X 

X 




XX 

XX 



x^ 



nfi!;gi 

x^ 

X 

115151 


X"". 


'S 

TTf?frfXt: 

x^ 

V 

JT5I51^: 

> 

X'^' 



nf^^: 

Xo 

X,x 


XX 

vx 

^0 




W 5 X# 

X 

X'x 

Vl 

GAXGX^, 


x\ 

XX 


X 

XS 


V =1 ,'(f \J 

iTf’Etform ^0 

X,XE 

Tj^q'ir 

X 

XX 


X'^ X" 

tTftftlsr: 

XX 

XX 



X'" 



x< 


iTf'ffX: 

x\ 

XX 


X<i 


U ’.%X'^ 


X 

Y 

• 


^ X- 

WflcHI 

iS 

X^ 


R 

X-x 


8 XH 


XX 

U^o 

M\ 



^ x»,xx 


c 

X^ 





\9 X,'S,XH 



XX 

nr *> X 

J f "J* 


<C Vi 

tT^igvngr^ ^ 

E 




% 

wfr^ 


X 



X, 




XC 

\J\S 


x< 

' XX 



JT^IcrtrW 

\ 

x^ 

iTTrrr 

% 

X^ 


x« 

riffWif: 

X 

Xc 

nrg^in: 

X 

XX 


X< 

JlflsflfT 

>? X 


nrg^r: 

X 

X*r 

JTTiirfi; 

»? x^ 


^ Xi.-^x 

nrnr?T5Tr: 

R 

XY 


^0 XT 



x,x 

nfrar 

X 

3 v> 


XX X.HX 


^ X 

\x^ 

nrn^r: 

X 

XY 


?o XX 


IS 

V 

nrsrn: 


X^ 


% XX 


^0 

X 


x< 



5.0 X 



XX 

nrn^r: 

\ 

XX 

JT^ST 

^ X^ 


^8 

'A 

nrnn^^ 

x^ 

XX 




56 


GITA-RAHASYA or KARMA-YOGA 


Word 

Ch. 

St, 

Word 

Ch. St, 

^ Word 


Ch. 

St. 

»TR?IT: 

?o 


\ 


1 g^T 


C 

H 

W^TT^TRUT^i: 


vs 


1 3^3 


X 




l-i 



XX 





i 

1 


g% 


8 



W 

^*1 

lo ^.C.'Aj'io, 



?o 

^v 


% 

'i‘» 


‘iV.^V.’vs 

g^q^ 


A^.XA 

^rrg^ 

8 



XX ^.'a^.'aH 

g^T^: 


?8 

A 






gf^! 





? 

1 


^ 

i 





vs 


^8 



^0 



V9 



?'A n,n 

j g^^rg 



1'* 


?c 



X^ 

g^: 




^HTT 




X's s 





5Tnim 


IV 

X<c 


33Sf^: 


8 

AH 






31' 

Xc 

VS?,,vsS 


?0 

^'A 


\ 

m 

guf^ 



A\ 




1 

1 


C 


TTr?THTr*^ 

?0 

X'A 

m^?t| \ 

i guf^ 


M 

AH 

4Trfr?»*nit 

IX 

h! 



H, 




X 

VV 


^8 ^’A 



X^ 

A^ 

9 

1 

'"l 

fii% 

X’i A<J' 

gfq>f5rg 


^8 

AH 



1 

T 

f»(««Tr 

?< 'A’. 

g?; 



^H 

8 



g^; 



AH 


TV 


fflsm 

Xc 




AA 





3 








g^TT: 


?8 

V 

'S 


n, 

1 

Xc 

gf& 



A'l 



8 ^\ 

g^rifir 



’I 



XC VO 

[ 

3 





sX- 

g^: 

'A 

1 gmurg 


^0 





X^ ah' 

i 


to 



”1'*.,') ^ 


X^ «A 

g?i??T 






INDEX OF WORDS in the GITA 


57 


Word Ch. St. 

Word 

Ch. 

St. 

; Word Oh. 

St. 





■ X^ 

IS 




\ T% 


u5i: 

*?I^'T?I«I'il: 

tu> 

m^ici ^ 

H £ 

^0 




%% 



1|?3: ^ ? VJ 

IT>^ 

x<: 

1- 

^0 


% 

JltspiH 

8 


q^?aiiife ^v9 


Xo 

( 

% 'i 


x^ 


*T 



V< 




wI^r^rsTT! 


'i^ 

??5lStT: % 


^ 'S 

1 n>?i^ 


'1^ 

?I3T^cT % 



1 ifmi^Tr: 



8 




X^ 

I'A 







X^ 

"ivi 


fltf5ii?5?wr- 



X'S 

'•9 V,'A,'1'i| 

I^l: 

X^ 


^ 3 : % 


^ VI 

mf?JH 

XH 

6 



Xo V^.'iV'>V'i'^ 


x< 


8 

X” 

XX 








8 


?T?rTT:%?IT; 


x^ 


^8 

H’. 




iflf: 

u 

1 



x\ \ 


18 

'IX 

X^ 


X^ %,'\\ 



\s^ 

?tg»Trf%^TT: ^ 


X< 



<!» 

8 

X" 


X^ 




\5o SSMi 
) 


^9 

n 

8 

xi 

^vrr ?o 

^f|?rT: 

8 




X< T “ 




[ 8 

^^5: ^0 

# 



! X^ 



?o 

V 

^:.y: ^ 

“Hv 

X^ U 


\\S 

'!«! 


n 




58 

GITA-RAHASYA or KARMA-YOGA 


Word 

Ch. 

St. 

Word 

Ch. 

St. ' 

Word 

Ch, 

St. 





<: 

'I'l' 



?« V* 

.I'l 


H^,H^ 

^51: 

^0 

•a 


Xc 






\\ 




Vi 






IT 


8 

w 



'i% 

^^JTtcI. 

Vi 

Va 


?o 


?T?ri?ti^rq^ 


"i ’) 


V 

'I'i 


8 


^r?flT 



*ffW53C. 

% 

HH 



0. 

q^TT^JTrst: 


H'A 



V 


8 



H 

H^ ' 

?Tt*r 

\ ^'i 



I'S 





8 

lA 



‘W 


'H 

Hc 


.i 

HH 


X's 


\ 

etc. 


V 



8 


«T?!TW5! 


t 


\C '1'^ 

,A'^ 

«»%3 

C 



H® 

etc. 

?T?!ir»3t. 


^A 



H«* 


'^l 

etc. 





'IS 


1 

'}') 

\ ^ 

,HH 

q?»f^?WT 

8 

HI 


\c 



<1 

.HI 



I" 

?T^r 

'aH etc. 

«t: 

^ 1A etc. 




\c,y(^ 






“IH 






?IrT%^r?Tm 

^IrTrl: 


: 

1 




\^,V 

^A 

,'A» 

sfrcTcrr 




% 

^H 


. !« 

^ » 



■< 1 

1 1% Y,TH 

^Tf?r 


YH 

^lerf^ 


V 


s 


C 

'A,‘;,'i^,H^ 

«Tcr^ 








He 

^rT^rwi«rJTm?T: 


?i355 

8 

HH 


^8 




'AH 


5 ! 

vjo 


V 

HH 



T-if 





V 

V A 



*t?T: 


HA 

*fr?tTT*3t, 

\0 

HA 

^IrlfPcT 


HA 


r< 

^A 

qrs!5 






^T^T 

9 

XA 

=^1*1. 




8 

Hc 


•9 

U 

1 «irf^ 









59 


INDEX 

Word Ch. St. ; 

8 ^=1 i 



c 

n 








V o , 

’Trf»T: 

?0 

'i^ 

®rraf^ 






m^rrqi; 


VJ, ! 


%< 

'A'^i 



1 

i'^ 


8 




VH 


«) 

,^1 

^t: 

t8 



I 

\9 

1- 



‘I'J 

g=5E^rfl-: 

% 

v\s 

^TRfTJTf: 


1> 





IVS 

3^: 






8 





-ijIV 

O 



! 


< 

')“ 



'Ai! 


OF WORDS IN THE 


\Vord 

Ch, 

St. 

3^r?JTT 








3% 


IV 

^k: 


•iVi 

3^5^r 




n 

Y' 




C 

•i i 

3^f 

8 

.i,c 

g3?T^ 

?o 

VJ 




35 ^?^ 



33^^: 

% 

'!<. 

33^’’^ 




1 

3ift?r 


'I" 

3-5?Trq; 




r: ? 


3=?*^ 


T< 

3=3:'^ 



3^f^ 

R ^'» 


3% 

1 

A\ 


l< 


3vjTJT?g; 

% 


3^ 

? 

'if 


! 

=1 i 


C 

^s 








\\ 


33^^i 

1 

V 




Word 

Ch. 

St. 

gg??T^: 


=1 

33'§**: 

1 

R<: 


^ \ 


etc. 


Ivs etc. 







. 






^0 


4t 

S!itif!=T5?T: 


^3 

trill ^nn 


XX 

tTlnwT?'»ii*?, 

C 

XX 

irtiTiEr^iT 

<c 

X“ 



vx 

trlnw'trraTrr- 

ffi: 


X^ 

trlim^r: 

8 

Xii 

trlug-s;: 




<: 

X'* 

trluijiTrTTmr 


x«. 

tflnf^TTJTr: 


X 


% 

x^ 


rri^m 

8 

V) 


8 

X<i 



I't 



X ® 

tiinntr: 



tjlnriT 


vv 





60 

GITA-RAHASYA or KARMA-YOGA 



Word 

Ch. St. 

Word Ch. 

St. 

Word 

Ch. 

St. 



^tltST ^0 

VS 

A^ifi: 


X'A 


y 


X 

T^k 

X 

'^X 




V'i 


XX 

XV 



u 

XX 

A?TT: 

'A 

A'A 




V 



y 



^Jr'UT: tc 

\«<J 


? 

AX 


?0 'i,'l<i 

*iXTt»ffTr?t %tc 

\s'A 


X 

AV 


,n ^ 

^n: M 

'A 

A^rtTA^ 

X 

■(f\S 




^X 

Afl[% 

H 

AA 


^ V^.-Ao 

» 

A 


x<i 

XX 


8 

X< 

HS 

AJlf^ 

Xo 






Af^: 

Xo 

AX 


t ^ H 

^ X'* 

^^^jpnrnj: % 

AA 


x^ 

XX 


^ 'A® 


AX 

AHsm 

X'^ 

A 


^ X 

U 

X'>f 

AArgsi;^; 


"aA 



\l 

XA 

AXT: 


'AA 


^ ^V* 

^fXig 

XA 



c 


8 


A® 

Amw^! 

?'A 

XX 


"A T'i 

^Yf^; \y 

X 

AA*rr: 


C 


^ 'i'^ 



Af% 


X® 


C 



AfA^*^ 

8 

X 




XX 

AT 



’Ttfn’TfH 

^ X 







^ ■)f'A,V'4 

ll 

XX 

AT^Afhj; 


XA 


^0 'I's 

?51?t; ^8 IX 

jX'i 



Xv 

^>lft 

"A 

?3iRt ?8 'i^,X'A 

Am|^ 


Xv 



?5i: 1^8 \'^A, 



x<c 

'AX 


1® 


AfATRfr^^ 

x^ 

'vS 


IS 

X 

AITft 

x< 

A^ 

c 




AT5iginA 

% 

A 




X'" 

AT31^ 

XX 

A 



AA 


^Sj\svs 






INDEX OF WORDS in the GITA 


61 


Word 

Ch. 

St, 

A15l4q: 

8 




u 

AT5ril[«n 



?niHW 

X^ 

% 

1 

?r5i??^^ 

X'^ 



Rl 

?<S 



?c 


^rJTHT: 

a 

“^A 


t8 

ic 


^'3 

V 

?r3T?fr 




Xc 

?r5iT 



?nqg»q55tvr!T 

1 



•^f'A ! 

?r3q^ 

X. ^I.u 



c 



\\ 

Ai3^q 


\-^ 

?rf^ 

«s 


Ti^; 

< 

^'A 

^isqm^r 




^'A 

?m: 




fr 


U3: 


"A 





lo 


^?r%qr: 

XX 



XX 

i 


Word Ch. St. 

8 

\ 

\s 

^qif&i l\ \ 

d 

Xc 'i'<i 

5!^''IRfl XC "A’, 

5^5'cTH- -) 

^w'sgrr 8 

X< '^\ 

5IV1% 8 

v» \\ 

X<^ 

H ’^'A 
% HI 

srvrss XX 

^ir XI 

^THri; ?<C i 

«C 

^ ^"A 


Word Ch. St- 

55IVJJ^ ^ 

5yr^Tr?fT^r ^ \^. 

f^|: XH 

'A '^, 1« 

f^yqfpq . 8 “IT 

^ VA 

S®'^! ^V» 

5° 

^q;s?q?ft 
^?qq»3t, U 

X'^ 

‘A 'i'*f 

IX 

x> w 

8 

V9 

^0 ^ 

X^ '>^ 

^qiifii: I'A 



62 


GIT A-R AH ASYA or KARMA-YOGA 


Word 


Ch. 

St. 

; Word 

Ch. 

St. 

' Word 


Ch. 

St. 

^^rq; 



VI 

1 

\o 




8 

'll 



\o 

n 


n 

=1 










u 









IV 


lo 








'Ivs 

,^1 




afifTTq; 



c 





, ar^Rr 

«? 

'>A 




n 



<: 


A 

u 

1 ® 

*\ 



^=1 


u 

. 



i' 

'll 

^’Tr^JT^T 









?0 


gear: 


?? 








: 

^^jqT*j; 


?o 




» 


1 ai?Tq. : 

1 




XI 









g^rfir 


% 





’^\ 

! ai? 

< 

<s 

^%: 


\ 




’’V 


1 gqoT: 

l=> 

’=(% 


« 

|o,'i'l 

,' 1 ’^ 






n 

W 


51T 




' 5 ? 





gr 


5 'S* 

etc. 

^»T: 

t« 

V.. 

A^s 

1 ^ 

? 2 P: 

i 


gr^ 


?o 



lo 'i^ 

^'S, 




^ ,,,, 




^T=ar»^ 


\ 

Vs 'iA 

'H'A 


gsfgrfJi 

R£ 



^8 


gr^qi; 

l< 


t9 

c 

’t 

g^erg: 


1 

gr^: 

gif^g: 

\o 

v^ 


^0 





^i3-- 

9 



?C 


gggrgrfg 

V9 

I 



ggg^t 

? 

'I 

g^ 


i 

1 


% 





N* 

ggg 




XX 



?c 

\s^ 

V 

ggg 




X'^ 

c 

g'g: 


'io 

gjg 



grgt: 

^ 




INDEX OF WORDS in the GITA 


63 


W ord 

Ch. 

St. 

Word 

Ch. 

St. 

Word 

Ch. 

St. 


? 

VI 



\’^ 



vs 




f%5I^r: 

x< 


f^sirgc 




\o 


f^^FJlfT: 


VS 


18 

33 

gr«: 

1 

V if 

fTstrjftn: 



f??lRTi); 






8 

v 




^Tg%: 

Xo 


^fjTTrfiTr 


'3 



36 



\s'iS 



6 

ikmn 

^0 

3vs 



IS 

r^i^rgjq. 

XX 





?o 



% 

3 

f^'-TriltW: 

X^ 

^v 


u 

^■> 


X<i 

VH 

Oif^?:e: 

X^ 

33 

f~' 

Tsr 




x^ 




3? 





8 




vv 



<: 

r^^5I: 

?o 


rVw^fffm 


Sv 


8 

1'^ 

fT^vrrfff 

v9 

\'\ 

f?53^8f?f¥I 


^6 



n 


'A 

'^S 

OfJff?! 

? 

3^^ 



3 


«? 


f%iT3i^T0r 

8 

Vo 





C 

36 ^ 


< 

^o 



'\<; 


8 







i 

>5 


f^iff 

?0 




TV ! 


<1 

3'4 

f%5Tr5rf? 


3v* 



''M 

Xo '-. 

Ov| 

%5Tr5r: 

■ ^ 

V o 


^<: 

<1 %! 



^V 


8 

£ 

filler: 

XX 




\> ; 

0r0i^T?r»3t 


36 



i 


?c 

^ i 



^v 




Off? ^ 

‘I'Ji etc. : 

r\ rv _Si 








S 




?<: 

Vv» 


Is 




V 

f^'^^arr; 




t'ijVo 1 

f^p^Or 

8 

XV 

f^=5ii55^;t 





3v»; 

■ 


’tx 

f^’gr5^r« 




8 


Xc 

vVS 


?« 




Vo 

f^p?^ 

'A , 

V 



I 



3S 

f%P?TfJT 

U 

XV 




64 


GITA-RAHASYA OR KARMA-YOGA 


Word 

Oh, 

St. 

Word 

Oh. 

St. 

Word 

Ch. 

St. 



V 



’tw 

X 

n.^^.vvs- 


u 



8 

V 


XX 


f^q^snfir 

\ 

\° 


8 



XX 



?c 



8 






<? 

1 

Brf%^^5TRf^<^5g 


f^^*TJT8I^r: 



fSr^TtRn 





-lo 

f^’T^ng ^ 

^H,^V 



^Oj 


?c 



8 




1 

^ 


x^ 


] 

tH 

s 


\o 

* V\ 


?c 

•^V 

1 





'i ^ 


V 

1 


'ss 

f^aj(?rfvT: 

?0 

TV 


?8 

')') 



f^^jfcTJTii; 

^0 

V'i 

r^rft ^8 

s» 



?<; 



\o 


(^51% 


^'A 

f^^g X<c 



lo 

Vo 

f%5lf^ 

< 

'i't 



tH 


lo 

v° 


% 




^<5 


8 


f^5ir^g. 

% 

Rl 



:^v> 

f%5^! 


^<i! 

T%5T^ ll 


f%q-T^??ig 







to 

v^ 







f%fi^g 


«lvs 

f^g^r: 





vs 


to 








f^soit XX 

^V,Xo 






S 

fk^^: 

<1 


f^gsfR 


vs^ 




f^gsig 


S 







T^gsiifiT 


vs,c 

/^g;^»Tr-<i; 

n 

vs 

1 


X<~ 



t 

VVJ 

f^gsRitT 




% 

vs 

f%^5r?5T: 

tt 


f^g^r: 

t'^ 

1 

V 


1 

I'S 


t^ 

£ 


?c 



U 

'i'^ 


to 

•IS 

i%jrt'^r*r 



f^^fftg^; 

?o 



to 

Vo 


8 


m^gs 

? 

V^ 


to 

IC 

f^Rtfqra 


Vo 


u 



t^ 



1 

Vjlvs 

XI 


m^irqr: 

t<s 

vs vs 



INDEX OF WORDS in the GITA 


65 


Word Ch. St. 

C5u _!5i. 

1IT ^ 

n 






eft 




^riTinwr^^: 






8 


^jTTrnr: <c 

‘i‘1 



f 


1^?: 1 

'i'^ 

8 


lo 



'4 


%»TH 




ii 


m 




8 

% 





V9 



^0 



5'^ 

=1,^^ 


?8 

'i'*. 


?<: ^1,^“ 


Word 

Ch. 

St. 

l?*T 

8 



?0 

‘i'A 





8 






’i 


ifd 





l'^ ’\ 

,1'A 


€ 

I** 

ir?r^r*3l 

lo 





%^r: 


■rf'A 


^\9 


q%r«i^ 

u 




't 





c 






u 




'l^ 


\ 

■jv* 


n 


Iw: 

\'^ 



\ 


tw!!; 

i\ 


% 



Ko 



X’^ 

£ 


l< 









Word 

Ch. 

SL 


?<c 

YY 

I^I: 



gWJT?; 


lY 

s^r 

s^rrKrrwir^ 



s*ItE’-I; 

< 

•ic 

S!I%H 

V9 

RY 


?0 

1Y 




sitcftffTpr 

8 


«JiNf?cr 

?8 


BJiaiJlf^ 


1'^ 

wim 

U 

v\ 

sJiffrw: 

l\ 



\ 

'“IV 


\ 

n 

s^rRuj^i 

\ 


5H^vf\; 

\\ 

YS. 

5?I^?rT«T: 

Xo 



X< 








Y1 



'^“■ 


X 

Y'^ 


X 


««T3f^sT#r 


^Y 

cm 


XX 



XX 


«irf!(TW®i 


’I 






66 GITA-RAHASYA or KARMA-YOGA 


Word 

Ch. 

St. 

Word 

Ch. 

St. 

Word 

Oh. 

St. 


^0 


5r5^: 

X 

XX 

51^0151: 

X 





» 

6 


Xo 

XX 


^0 n.X'" 

5ts5r^^ 

8 



X 

X® 


<: 



x< 


5T^Tfoi 


^x 


\c 

'A‘1 

5ITT5^ 

XX 



Xo 

HX 


\ 


5TH: 


X 

5r?TflT 

'X 

X 


1 



Xo 


^T 




U 

5,^ 


x< 

>s\ 

5ir<at: 


■=l 


> 

Vj 

5T?oiJi; 



5TrfW 


vs 



i 


% 

x<£ 

5Tt?cT?5HEm;. 



51?^ 



x< 


?nfcT: 

x^ 

'xX 

5If5TtftT 

\ 


3!Tft?5frar 


<s 


\S o 

,^X 







8 

xs 


\\ 

5 



X'A 

H 

X^,5t^ 

51^9. 

\K 

V 

5iO?f%?Tts8rnTg^ 




xv, 



’\'\ 


H 

^x 



XX 








X^ 

x^ 



5tO?5«t; 


XX 

5rifsfr: 


XX 


\ 

15^ 



X i 



x^ 

^Ifr: 

X 


i 


<f 


x^ 

H 


1 


5rft«foi 



5IT^V?5J. 

8 

’tx 

A 

1 

‘IV 

5T?tftai: 


x^ 


x^ 

XV 


x< 

X<i 

5Tft? 



5T[^awm5irU 

XV 

3im5l; 

XI 




\° 


X8 

^i\» 



% 


XX 

XX 


^0 

X’t 



% 

5r4 

XX 



■xx.x^ 



v3 

5t5TIf: 

XX 

X^ 

5Trafr: 


X® 

?fra: 


iv 


X'^ 

X 

5IT^: 


vx 

'3 




xx. 

5TI^5ft: 


vX 

*. 

*ir5tT 




V9 

i 


<c 

^X 

* 

5151 : 


5T5ft 


’tx 

5T(^f^«rr!Tt- 



5is!?siir 


•ifV 

5r’5?!: 


XX 


x^ 

XV 



INDEX OF WORDS IN the GiTA 


67 


Word 

Ch, 





T?T 


? 


?o 

%T?II 


f5r«“T: 




?fT 


i- 





gi5?^^ 

< 

355: 

C 

3^: 

tc 

gf^: 

IR 

3^:th^ 


3^r 


3f^ 


3^r^ 



fmift 


g»Trg»n>lr: 





St. 

' Word 

Ch. St. 




33^ 

Kc YV 


3,TTorn^ 

\< YT 


33r; 



'3,^r: 

\ Y,^ 

Ivs 


H 


^3 

R \\ 

*1 -if 1 

a <\ 

13 

' 

\0 <1 

•< 


\ 


1 

1 


Ilf 

\c 

1^9 ^,'i 

'',n,'<'«,.XY, 


Y\^Y 

Ic 'J'i 

\J 

jzoirtir 

R \\ 

l-s 

j sa'J^fT: 

?e 1-i 





1 

5T 


1 lt«5r: 

? 'A 





?TT 

1 

<n 

1 

% v\s 



^ <; 

'IC 


Ic 

vsl 

' 5ft^Rr 

\R 1'* 

is* 








R 


Word 

Ch. 

St. 



\9 





19 

1Y 


IC 

Y^ 

31^*^ 

U 

vu 

Y^ 

?:7r55t; ' 

\ 

^Y 




sr3[*TT 


%'* 








m 

\ 


?» 



19 









8 

n 



y Vi 


Xc 

Vi«^ 




9 

fw 

’ll 

Pwrn: 

% 

V. 

sfTW^fTWT^ R 

’^,11 

etc. 

sfrtrnm 


Yl 

sftH’d; 

^0 

Y«» 



68 


GITA-RAHASYA or KARMA-YOGA 


Word 

Oh. 

St. 

8ft; 

?0 



x< 

\s<: 






'4'<l 








’I'l 

wfgfirsifeqwr J? 


A 

8rrrr 

sS 

w 


^esrr 




n 









\ 







1 





x^ 






8 



Xc 

Y\S 







?it?iizre*T 



8Thl»^ 

X'^ 

s 


8 


8ffs«rfk 

tc 

''.<J 








Word 

Ch. 

St. 


X 


«g?T; 

X 



H 

\ 


•s. 


^ct: 

X 

’\t 




^iTT?Tr: 

C 




w’fCTi; 

X^ 



H 


HW: 




8 



XX 't'^,'^'^ 


X 




VI 

?i^3: 

XX 

Vlf 


XX 



x^ 



XX 

'^'A 





y<; 



,1-) 


x< 











*1 

1o 


XX 

\3 

?T%?rT; 

XX 

HI 


X's 


?T35l^ 


HC 


Word 

Ch. 

St: 

?T33T*'?r 

\ 



1“ 

^T^IrT^^r: 

X^ 

•1 


% 

n 



o- 


c 

Iv 


% 

<)V 


X^ 

•iv 


tV9 

HV 



\SVS' 

???t: 



«% 



5l?i; 


n 



n 



?R^r?*Trit'i5rr4*i. 






to 

v 


X^ 

H,'*' 


t® 

IH 


x< 



to 

VV 

?T^^?IITTf^S: X<c 

V 


t^ 

% 


t8 

"^c 

?Tt55Rt to 



t^ 


✓»o 

oc 

“,'i1 


t^s 

\ 


t^ 

Vo 


t8 

I'* 

«Ttrgw 

t« 

\ 



INDEX OF WORDS in The GITA 


69 




Word 

Ch. 

St. 

Word 

Ch. 

St. 

Word 

Ch. 

St. 


?8 

TV 

HiT^r 

t= 

'T 

?iiTr'^r?T 


TT 




5Trr?ftrrrf5r 

V9 




'TV 






^nrrm ^ 

VV,'T^ 



■^T 



Vd 

Huratf^ 

?! 

Vo 





'T 

Td 

HWT^VTI: 

8 

TT 





‘l^ 

HWHcl: 


Td 


< 

^ ' 

' 1 



Tt 





?o 

1 

T\s 


ts 

’iv 

• 

?<: 

'To 


1<C 




V 


?! 



\ 

u 

«H5=3ra; 

?! 

Tv> 

HWlfta: 


\s 


8 


!fTTf55^?I: 


V 

?IWT: 


VT 

HC5T: 



Wfrff^;: 



HfjTTSSIJT: 


d 



T'^ 



' HfniJ:: 

8 

^vs 


ic 

Vd 

3^: 


d 


? 






?8 

T,V 

H’P’l 


• 

\$0 


8 






?! 




To 


? 



XR 

VS 

H5ir?R: 


■=^v 

WJTtar: 

? 

T 


1 

^d 


<2 


Hinj. 


TS 



’t 


\l 

T'i 



sagTlf^?!: 


'T^ 



\3 


■<\>>T,d 

l\ 

A\,\S 

H^iTcrm: 

% 

Vo 

ffTf??r5l: 


HV 


\\ 

?! 


8 


HiT5=^r?i; 

?? 


Hit 


^d 

H^cT: 


T^ 

HH: 


Vd 

Hwr 

'T 

■^VS 





8 




V 

HR 

^0 






<2 

To 

«IT^ 

u 

V^ 


T<4,Tv 


% 

?“ 


8 



u 

'TV 

?HHr^ 

?o 

^V 



T 

?IJlT*T^ll: 

\ 


?nT: 


T^ 






“t.T^ 


?8 




\° 




?m't'JiT 

?o 








?i^r 

V9 






GITA-RAHASYA or karma-yoga 


70 


Word Ch. St. 

\o 

II V® 

XR 'i'l 


8 

X^ 

^ 1 <2 
^ IX 
X\ ^ 

x^ 






X* 

X’^ 

vs 


XI 

?T#: «nf&nir3[»^ 

XX 

X'k xx 
x^ n 
XX x^ 

?T^ ^ 

^ X-,X^ 

x^ ^ 

X< 

X^ X 


Word 

Cb. 

St. 

Wprd 

Ch. 

St; 



X 







\0 

Xo 

?T^*n 


XX 



X<i 


X\ 

HX 





X^ 

'X*: 


% 

X'^ 

?ra5:?5frsTrJ3; 


X'x 


n 

'X'X 


x^ 

6 


x< 

Xo 

?T45T?lfoi 

<i 

X^ 


w 

XV 

?Tg?R5 

X9 

XX 


% 

XV 


Xc 

XX 


XS 

V 

ar^'TT^VTT: 

x< 

XX 




Xo 

X 


»x 

X'^ 

«4«nii!T 

v^ 

X'X 



x-^ 



x^ 


to 

XX 



’(X 


V9 

6 



XX 


t 

X6 





Hi,X<J 



V 



XX 





X'i 


•x 

v» 


8 

XX 



x^ 


to 

X 



XX. 


t^ 

x^ 


V9 

Xo 

RqR^qqR'qxR't 




x^ 



n 



XX 



X“ 


t8 

X 



x^ 



XX 


C 

X, 



XX. 

j 

to 

i. 



X'* 


XX 

X*! 



v 


t*x 

x^ 



\s 


t» 

X,'^ 


x< 

XX 

¥Tt5X: 

to 

XV 




INDEX OF WORDS in the GITA 71 


Word 

Gh. iit. 

Word Oh. 

St. 

Word 

Ch. 

St. 






XX 



8 

X S'** 



XX 

v^ 



^ 1’ 

^VJ o 





8 


«s 

Iv, 



1 ^ 


?iir^5r: 





^0 


H!r^ 


\ 





HV 


U VC 

^8 

1 

«5Bt: 

X 



U *1^ 




^V 




^v 


X 

vv* 




• 


V 


?? Vo 


•iv 

jsir^ii 

€ 

n 



h^¥«t: y 



X'^ 



^ X" 



H5T?T 

X 

’\ 


8 



j 4mi X 

^,Xv,yv» 



X 

n 



’\,S 




V^ 

XI 

'^A'A.V 


U £, 


,^v» 



VSV 


V^ 'i^ 

x^ 

■^\S 



'I®. 


\ 

Xc ■^'i,vv 

H5rq?ft 

^8 



*? 

hI: X^. 


^5irq^ 




8 








iS 

’I 


?8 

1\» 


ll ■i\^'*J 

X X 

1 

: 


\s 


?T5TIJJ: X 


H3f3[^qf?T 

8 




Hf X 


Hgs: 




?8 

XX ^%M 


iv 

.n 

?TqRJWf: 

\< Vd 

X^ 



u 

Hv» 


\C \\ 

fTfsrn ^«c 

Vi 

'nfqqjq' 

x^ 

V 

'in 

X 


Hfqfqq: 

X'A 

'i'^ 


C 

?T5r’»^r: ^ 


H5q¥i?nqi: 


V 



HITHT X 

"1^ 







72 


gita-rahasya or karma-yoga 


Word 

Ch. 

St, 

Word 

Ch. 

St. 

Word 

Ch. 

St. 





\0 









8 






u 

V^V» 




?r: 

\ 3 3 etc. 



w’TT^r 




^T 



% 





«I 





T 



'iv 



3^ 





.i 




3^ 








?» 



?<s 




c 

?c 

3 ». 33 , 3 ^, 




mo^vjy 



33 , 


?<r 

\» 

j«l^: 



?TT^Tci; 

U 

v^^ 


?c 


i«?rqisEr 



wr^ 

% 

3^: 





8 


?iin?: 

\° 

3Y 

4«IT^iT 

?<: 






% 

3v» 





<2 

ij 


(f 


i \>'<(,^ 


^O 

\» 


^8 

3® 



\° 



( 






«5I*n??Tir: 

8 

Vo 

\<c 

'^»,’^ 3 . 3 '* 


\< 

V 

?f5mi5tti 

8 

Vo 

i 


33 


l'^ 


wfiraJTai: 

8 

^<£ 





?8 





?TTR^^r: 

<9 

3^ 




«f«Rn: 





V 






n 




4g^VR: 







\< 3 

»,33 


?8 

Y 


<: 



^8 



^8 

3 


u 

Y^ 

?iifV»j5rir^3[^ 



8 




v^ 



3 “ 







?nfvnT3T^ a 

3 “ 


\s 

^V* 

?t?<«I5it; 



?ng»Tr% 

?« 




u 


'»e 


Higi 







VS\S, 

,'av» 

?TI3: 


3 ” 

^fil¥rt*^: 

8 

3^ 



^6 


8 

£ 




INDEX OF WORDS in the GITA 


73 


Word 

Cd. 

9t. 

Word Ch. 

St. 

Word 

Ch. 

St. 

?TTwrr: 

\\ 



v« 


^8 

X 

^ir»i 

% 

^V» 

x< 

XX 



X<i 




X. 

XX 



HX 


?o 




g^»rf&ig. 




?0 




^tIt 

X 

XX 


?o 


HI^fpcT \ 

XC 


% 

X“ 



*1^ 




XX 

'AX 



XX 



gf^vr;, 


XX 



Hv 


H® 



x^ 



V 

gprx^T ?8 

XX 



X 




'X 

X^ 

j g?noir: 

XO 

X 



X 

Vi 

XX 

j giHsrr: 

XX 

XX 



xs 


x^ 






XX 


'x 


\ 

X® 




X^ 

X® 

1^»T: 

<: 

*xy 


H 


^8 

X 


^•x 

X 




§^«r ^8 

H'.» 



X 

1^ 




XX 

%W^. 

% 

Xtf 


« 

X 

8 

y® 


<x 

XX 


X<^ 

XX 


X,XX 



IX 

x^ 


XX 



X 

fng;: 


IV 

H XX,XX 





V9 

X 

^ XX.Xvs^XX 





?0 

XX 

^0 

y 


X^ 

XH 



V 


X 


XX 

XX 


8 

TX 


XX 


A 

Vi 


X^ 

1® 

X<^ XX,X'*,X^,XX 


% 

X® 


Xd 

T 

g^rr% X XX,XX 


XX 

IX 


x% 

X^ 

gf^sr: ? 

X'* 


?'X 

X 



XX 




ra%: 

8 

XX 

'X 

XX 


'X 

xy 


8 

XX 


xy 

^snfJi 

8 

SJ 



74 


GITA-RAHASYA or KARMA-YOGA 


Word 


Ch. 

St. 

Word 

Gh. 

St. 

Word 


Ch. 

St. 



C 

^\S 

^gftrRrt 

u 


f?*I3T: 


*4 

44. 



8 


?g^f^cT 

n 




5 

n 




1» 

?%?r: 



^qffr: 



\s^ 








_ Js 


\\3 

^vs 








ftsrar 


t 

4X 



f%I?T: 





»4 

'<» 




*>» 


\ 

VI 

ftuinfct: 


t^ 

4«. 

WJTHrsrm 

?o 

• 






5 

I'l 

?T^rT 


^8 











8 


?«rfOj: 


1 



5 

4? 







H 



5 

U 

lr^*i 


\ 

vs 


c 

i 

f^!!i?r: 


\\3 



•s 




% 


Vis, ^ 


t\ 

'S 


^T 




u 








'A 











\\ 

YV 

^urq^r 

i 


t%i5ir: 


t^ 

c 



% 



i 




















^srr^n<nTJj; 

to 




V^ 

\ 





^ssft^Rr 



^'T5tiq^ 



^vs 

« • 




f?STrr5f^«I 


\>s 



»4 




? ^,'1^ 






8 

4v 

^TIT<^f%: 


? 




vs’ 



t8 

4^ 














U o 



IS 







U 

'A'i 









^Wi 




t'^ 

■lo 




4v 














\o 













5 '^'’s' 

U,\’\ 











to 




4 

0,^4 

^cis'sr: 


\< 



t< 

s»X 



U 


^ctsm: 


5 5 

<^\4 


t 




t^ 






75 


INDEX OF WORDS in the GITA 


Word 

ai. 

St. 



n 




St 


to 

tv 


tH 

t’A 



'^t 





1 

TV 

?^r?i; 

t 

ts 



vs 



ivs 


to 

t% 


tt 



t'^ 

t» 


t<i 

Vo 


t 

t'* 



tv 


t< 

\S o 

^3= 

<1 

tt 





t 

t” 


to 

tT 




^^?4'nr 

tc 

VS 

\C 

V'A 


?t 

V<,o 


tt 

c 

55515^ 

t 


t'*: 

.V'A 


Word 

Ch. 

St. 

?gf^5r?TT 

tt 

ts 


t-l.tt 



t't 


tc 

V\5 



tH 

^^'srr 


ts 


\ 

t^ 



vvs 


H 

<*. 


t< 

t^ 


t 

t^ 

t^rwR^nj; 

tc 

Vt 

vs,vv 

,vv 

R^TTSfSlr 

t^s 


R^irg^sT 

t<J 

So 

^^vrRfjRai5^^<: 

VVS 

^^vrmjrwlr; 

t< 

V') 

t^vrr^: 

't 

IV 


< 

t 


8 

t<; 

to 



t«C 

vjH 



to 



to 



tt 

RJiTtr: 


V? 



t1 





s 

VO . 

Rf%i: 

tt 

tl I 


ts 

^v: 

RRf 


tti 


Word 

Ch. St. 


^ tt 

8 tc 


t^ t 

t'S t't 

Rnj. 

8 S 


*?<S V'^,V'^ 


IC S“ 




^ n 


j? t*» 
t^ tv 

fcTiq; 

tt tv 

fRl t 

t'i.tS.t'^ 
^ NS 

\<C 


tt . tv 

f?cr 

to n 



ffscl 

\<C 

t 

t'^,t'^,v^ 

f?*r^ 

? 'i'^.^to 


^ to 

f'3: 

t vs 


t tv 

ftftr 

^ S-J 


< S» 




76 


GITA-RAHASYA or KARMA-YOGA 


Word 

Ch. 

St. 

Word 

Ch. 

St. 

Word 


Ch. 

St. 

fR: 


0. 

/t5ITc?T^: 

U 

^V» 

?qt%5T 


11 




VS\A 






t-i 




fT 





1 








f^%5T: 

1 




I?r^ 

8 




» 

T- 



‘I’A 


% 


fsd^JTr 



IV 

ff^: 

8 





f«?T% 





. ? 


I 



f«5rrfiT 

t-i 


^\S\9 



“ic 



o 









8 



Vl.X'ijVl 

frRr: 



^?r^r45*rac 



f?T^: 



I'A 


#*v 

m 




n 

tg^rr 



V 

fk 

? etc. 


€ 

n 

tgirf^: 



V 

lo 

'1 




Ig: 


Xo 







'^'A 





f^c^T 


U 





fl 



%S|% 



f?rr: 






^fif 


?o 


fRia: 

u 


5t: 









INDEX Jo PERSONAGES referred to. 


( Not being Indian or Foreign Authors). 

( Note .—The original text of the author was not indexed 
at all. The first index above {of stanza-beginnings), and 
this and the three following indexes ware first added to the 
fourth Marathi edition of the text, published in 1923, after the 
death of the author, as stated in the Publisher’s foreword to 
that edition. The referencas to the pages in this 1923 Marathi 
edition, in this and the three following indioes, have been 
replaced bj the corresponding references to the pages of the 
present English edition, except such as I have not been able 
to trace. Also, the words in the original indexes, which had 
been arranged according to the Marathi alphaljefc, have been 
re-arranged by me according to the English Alphabet, letters 
with diacricical signs, being indexed as if there were no such 
signs, (ii) in front of a figure, or row of figures, means 
Vol. II—Translator.) 

Abdul Roheinan (II), 145. Christ, 49, 117, 546, (ii) 777, 

Aghoraghanta, 332. ; 811, 830, 831, 834, 835, 

Agulimala, 616. j 826, 837, 338, 829, 

Ajigarta, 55, ; Oitraratha, 584. 

Alexander, (ii) 789, 819, 828. Confucius, 543. (See Khun- 
Amrapall, 616. | Phu-Tse). 

Angirasa, 59. j Columbus, (ii) 826. 

Antiochus, (ii) 838. i Coriolaims, 41. 

Antiocledes, (ii) 790, | Dadluci, 56. 

Asoka, (ii) 799, 819, 827, 828. j Daksa Prajapati, 469, 

Asvapati Kaikeya, 434, i Dara (Shahazada), (ii) 706. 

(ii) 739. Ekanatha, 546. 

Bahva, 567, Ganapati Sastri, (ii) 787, 

Bali, 44. j GargI, 312. 

Baskali, 567. I Gargya Balaki, 434. 


Bhaskaracarya, 571. 

Bhrgu, 584. 

Brhaspati, 160. 

Buddha, (ii) 798, 802, 817, 835, 
826. 

Candrasekhara, (ii) 754. 
Carudatta, 54 


Gautama Buddha, 134. 
Hamlet, 40. 

Ilariscaiidra, 52. 

Haryasva, 469. 

Heliodorus, (ii) 790,. 
Hirauyagarbha, 424, 

Iksvaku, 13, 14, 581, (ii) 634,. 



78 GITA-RAHASYA OB KARMA-YOGA 

Jabali, 105,106. 

Paila, (ii) 738. 

Jaigisavya, 478, 

Parasurama, 61. 

Jauaka, 312, 383, 413, 434, 451, 

Paul, (Saint), 49. 

485, 487, 499, 509, (ii) 660, 

Paiiloma, 98. 

812, 830. 

Prahlada, 14, 44, 45, 60, 61, 98, 

Jananiejaya, 14, (ii) 643, 723^ 

161, 172, 584. 

(ii) 781. 

Pratardana, 98. 

Jarasamdha, 76. 

I’riyavrata, 14. 

Jaratkaru, 404. 

Prthn, 14. 

Jimutavahaiia, 56. 

RMiCilabhadra, (ii) 798. 

Jesus Ohrisi, (See, Christ). 

Raniacandra (Rama, or Sri 

Kablr, (ii) 706. 

Rama) 52, 58, 97, 105. 

Kalakhanja, 98. 

Rama Sastri, (ii) 697. 

Kanada, 204. 

Ravana, 608. 

Kasiraja Ajatasatru, 434. 

SabaUsva, 469. 

Khaninetra, 62. 

Sauatkutiiara, 302, 310, (ii) 659. 

Khun-Phu-Tse, (See Confucius). 

Sardesai, (ii) 793. 

lA-O-Tse, 546. 

Satan (Devil), 98, (ii) 825. 

Laksmana, 438. ' 

Saunaka, 439. 

Lava, 98. 

Sibi, 56. 99, 170, 563. 

Mahavira, (ii) 624. 

Sivaji, 591, 611, (ii) 706. 

Mahoiidra, (ii) 8L9, 

Skanda, 302. 

Mahomed, (ii) 770. 

i Socrates, 117, 118. 

Maitreyi, 110, 312. 

[ Sonakolivisa, (ii) 797. 

Manu, 12, 14, 80, (ii) 634. 

! Sri Bhagavan, 12. 

Mara, (ii) 825. 

Sudama, 120. 

Marici, (ii) 660. 

Suka, 284, 434, 439, (ii) 659, 

Markandoya, (ii) 674. 

(ii) 754, 767. 

Megastlienes, (ii) 791. 

Sukracarya 65, 95, 161. 

Naciketa, 126, 158, 159, 430. 

1 Snlabha, 383. 

Nagarjuna, (ii) 798, 817. 

, Sumantu, (ii) 738, 754. 

Nagasena, (ii) 805. 

! Svetaketu, 65, 95. 

Nanda, (ii) 798. 

Syumarasmi, 470. 

Napoleon, 175. 

Tuladhara, 68. 

Narada, 284, 302, 303, 310, 469, 

Uddalaka, 434. 

572, (ii) 674. 

UsasLi Cakrayana, 67, 

Nestor, (ii) 827. 

Vaisampayana, 14, (ii) 643, 

Newton, 571. 

(ii) 660, 738, 754, 781. 

Nicholas (Notovisch), (ii) 830. 

Vamadeva, 55. 




INDEX TO FOREIGN AUTHORS 


79 


Varcnya, 418, 
Vena, 62. 

Viclula, 51). 
Visvamitia, 54, 55. 


Vivasvan, 12, 80, (ii) 634. 

Vrtra, 53. 

Yajnavalkya, 110, 312, 413, 
477, 499, (ii,) 659. 


INDEX to FOREIGN AUTHORS. 


Aristotle, 92, 99, 419, 420, 514, 
(ii) 682. 

Bain, 50, 123, .514. 

Bentham, 115. 

Bournoff (E'nule), (ii) 829. 

Brooks, 53 2. 

Buhler. (ii 732, 769, 773, 788, 
795, 802. 

Butler, 10',, 

Cams ( I’aii), 119, 147, (ii) 684, 
687. 0! 

Colobrooke, 220, (ii) 825. ' 

Comte (A.igustG), 85, 86, 87, 
105, 210, 419, 420, 462, 
(ii) 687. 708. 

Dalton, 20r , 

Darwin, 13 ), 2U5, 206, 233, 241. 

Davids (Rlum), (ii) 802, 804, 
(ii) 8H, 827. 

DeusscTi (Pull)39, 260, (ii) 667, 
(ii) 68 2, 

Diderot, 10'), 

Enoch (Reginald), (ii) 826. 

Gadow (Dr. H.), 253. 

Garhe, (ii) 759, 791, 799. 

Geiger, (ii) 802. 

Gijethe, (ii) 694. 

Green, 48, 50, 93, 121, 165, 200, 
299, 310, 311, (ii) (iSO, 682. 

Haeckel, 206, 218, 233, 235, 
253, 270, 336, 369. 


! Hmgel, 293, 309. 

' Hartman, 420, 

1 Helvetiua, 109. 

I Hobbes, 55, 95, 111, 113. 

I Hume, 110, 120. 

I James (William), 319. 

Jowett, 419. 

Kant, 87, 93, 120,165, 199, 201, 
I 293, 295, 297, 305, 309, 310, 

IV ^ ■: 356, 365, 519, 532, 533, 
iJ‘'^i-(ii) 679, 682, 683. 

I Kern, (ii) 799, 802, 809, 816, 
' (ii) 818. 

King, (ii) 828. 

Bamariine, 205 
Laurincer, (ii) 820, 
l<ii.v (Arthur), (ii) 826, 829,* 
Macmillian. 145. 

I MV, Grindle, (ii) 790. 

Martineau (James), 169, 235. 
Maiidsloy, 593. 

I Max Muller, 184, 594, (ii) 683, 

! (ii) 774,802, 821. 

; Mill, 49, 55, 87, 105, 115, 121, 

! 122, 156, 420, (ii) 687, 

Millman, 49. 
i Morley, 109. 

Neitzsche, 367, 420, 519, 547, 
(ii) 702. 

Newton, 571. 




80 


GlTA-RAHASYA. or EARMA-YOGA 


Notovisch (Nicholas), (ii) 830. 
Paulsen, (ii) 695. 

Plato, 157,190, 462. 

Plutarch, (ii) 828. 

Pythagoras, (ii) 825. 

Rockhill, 134, (ii) 786. 

Rosni, (ii) 829. 

Sale, (ii) 811. 

Schopenhauer, 87,144,146, 308, 
419, 420, (ii) 682, 694, 702, 
(ii)710.’ 

Schiller, (ii) 672. 

Schroeder, (ii) 892. 

Senart, (ii) 768, 


Shakespeara, 40. 

Sidgwick, 49, 50, 51,114, 563. 
Smith (Vincent), 208. 

Socrates, 117,118. 

Spencer, 87, 105, 123, 292, 420,, 
455, 513, 514, (ii) 687, 710. 
Stephen, 50. 

Sulley, 420, (ii) 695. 

Takakasu, 208. 

Thibaut, (ii) 758. 

Thompson, (ii) 747. 

Weber, (ii) 787. 

Whewell, 50. 

Wilson, 221. 




AN INDliX of AUTHORS (not foreign) and of their WORKS, 
referred to in the Gfta-Hahasya. 


Note —liven if this index is merely glanced at, readers will 
get an idea of its arrangement. The names of authors and of 
their worl:s have been given according to the Marathi alphabet, 
and works of the same nature have been grouped together, 
as will he realised by the readers on the facii of the index. 
Those persoiuiges, who have been referred to in t le course of the 
expositioi s of the variou.s subject-matters, for (ixpounding the 
true import of the (fita, have already been indexed separabfly 
(see p. 77 to 79 above—Trans.); and the last. Index of Definitions 
includes i.echnical words. { see j). 89 et. xeq. —Trans.). 


( The above is the heudimj of the Index added to the 1913 
Marathi iidition of the text, ivhich was pnhlished ufler the death of 
the author. The words iu this index had been arranged according to 
the Marathi alphabet, as stated above, and 1 have re-arranged them 
according to die English alphabet, except such references as I have 
been unable to trace in spite, of due. and diligent search. 
Letters with diacritical signs have, been indexed as if there were 
no such signs, and the figure (ii) before a figure or row of figures- 
means Vclunie II, —Triinslator.) 




Adhyatni.i Ramayana, 5, 8, 438, 

Agnipura ;ia, o, 6. 

Aitareya rirahmaua, 98. 

Aitareyopanliad, Tit, 331. 

Amarakofa, 76, 358. 

Amitayusetta ( Pali), (ii) 799, 
(ii) 816. 

Amrtahindapanisad, 340, 39(5, 
(ii) 764,1005. 

Anandagiri, 104, 110, 433. 

Anandatiilha,,. (See Madliva- 
carya }. 

Anaiitaca] ya, 506. 

Apararkadeva, 505. 

Apast atnh iy a Dhar i n a-Su tras, 
488. 

11—12 


Arjunamisra, 1. 

Arseyti Brahrnana, (ii) 717. 

Astadu-sa Puranadarsana, 5, 6. 

Aslavakragita, 5, (ii) 951. 

Aiivagho,sa, 81, (ii) 6i)4, 770, 
(ii) 787, 798. 

Asvulayana Grhya-Sutras, 
(ii) 738, 788. 

Atliarva-Veda, 355, (ii) 1135. 

Avadhutagita, 5, 133. 

BaduKlyanacarya, 16, (ii) 749, 
(ii) 750, 754, 1109. 

Balacarita, (See, Bha.sa). 

Banahhatta, (ii) 793, 

Baudhayana Grliyasesa Sutras 
(ii) 788. 




82 


gita-rahasya or karma-yoga 


Baudhayana Sutras, 488. 

Bhagavata, 6, 14, 15, 29, 55, 
64, 227, 386, 414, 434, 469, 
473, 497, 551, 572, 573, 578, 
591, 594, 601,603, 607,614, 
(ii) 639, 766, 771, 780, 871, 
(ii) 891,901, 941,964, 1008, 
(11)1020,1054-5,1056,1060, 
(ii) 1065-6, 1077. 

Bhaiidarkar ( R, G. ), 23, 24, 
(11) 745 770, 785. 791, 799. 

Bharavi, (Seo, Kirata), 64, 552. 

Bhartrharl, 52, 64, 113, 114, 
124, 132,148,157. 

Bhasa, (See, Balaearita), 7, 
430, 456, (ii) 771, 787, 794. 

BhaskarSoarya, 571. 

Bliatta Kumarila, 258. 

Bltavabhuti, 98, 594. 

Bhiksugita, 5, 6. 

Bible' 33, 49, 517, 518, 542, 545. 

Bodhyagita, 4. 

Brahniaglta, 5. 

BrahmajMasutta, (Pali),(ii) 804, 

Brahmanda Puraiia, 5. 

Brahipanas, (see list).* 

Brabma-Sutras, (See, Vedanta- 
Sutras, and Sariraka- 
Sutras). 

Bra hmavaivartaka Purana 
(ii) 767, 

Brhadaranyakopanisad, 44,126, 
133, 182, 197, 199, 231, 


Brhadaranyakopanisad ( conkl ) 
254, 258, 283, 284, 285. 

292, 296, 298, 301, 307, 

308, 312, 315, 317, 320, 

322, 324, 336, 341, 344, 
j 348, 354, 362, 365, 381, 
400, 406, 410, 413, 433, 

434, 444, 471, 483, 499, 

502, 537, 598, (ii) 658, 693, 
(ii) 712, 739, 742, 765, 772, 
(ii) 807, 808, 810, 873, 970, 
(ii) 1024, 1029, 1033, 1037, 
(ii) 1084, 1115, 1115, 1152, 
(ii) 1186. 

Buddbacarita, 81. 

Canakya, ( See, Kautilya ), 

I ’ (ii) 629, 787. 
i Carvaka, 105,109. 

' Ohandogyopanisad, 44, 171, 

181, 210, 231, 234, 252, 

254, 259, 283, 301, 310, 

! 313, 318, 322, 324, 338, 

348, 353, 354, 381, 397, 

, 400, 406, 409, 413, 475, 

' 500, 569, 574, 580, (ii) 739, 

(ii) 742, 761, 763, 765, 776, 
i (ii) 807,907, 959, 977,1013, 

! (ii) 1029, 1034,1072, 1078, 

. (ii) 1089, 1138, 1140, 1166. 

Chandogya (Sarhkarabhasya), 

I 475, (ii) 704. 

Cburikopanisad, (ii) 747. 
Confucius, (See, Kbun-Phii- 
Tse), 542. 


® The words see list ”, used in tliis index, mean : see this 
index ”. ‘ Brahraanas ’ is the name of a class of treatises, just as 
‘ L'urulias,’ or ‘ Gitas and the various Bratmanas are not indexed 
undor • Briihinanas' but in their respective alphabetical order, as 
‘ Arsoya-Bridimaua ' Aitaroya-Brahmana ’, etc.; or, in the case 
of the Gitas, as : Brahma-Gita, Siva-Gita etc.—Trans. 





INDEX OF AUTHORS (not foreign) AND THl^o n WORKS 83 


Cullavaggii, (Pali), ui) 

(ii) 8in. 

Dasaralha Jataka, (Pali), 
(ii) 811. 

Devlbhagavata, 6. 

Devigita, 5. 

Dhaniniapii.da, (Pali), 134, 144, 
173,389,516, 517, 541, 545, 
(ii) 675, 676, 800, 803, 807, 
809, 813. 

Dhammikasutta, (Pali), (ii)809, 
(ii) 810. 

Dhyaaabindup.rniHad, (ii) 747. 

Dllcsit, (8. :G), 364, (ii) 774, 

(ii) 785, 789, 796, 799. 

Dipavamsa, (I 'ali), (ii) 803. 

Ekiiiiatha, 546. 

'Epicurus, 514. 

Ganesagita, 5, 418, 

Cranesapiir.i na, 5. 


Gaudly a Pialiiiuttarapurana, 6. 
Oau t a I :i 1 a-S a t . 1 ' i I s, 110, 

Oi'tas, (Sco, list). 

CHta (Madl vabhasya), 33. 

Grita (Rama tinjabliasya), 32. 

Grita (Samkarabhasya), 15, 437 
483. 

Glitartliapa::'aniar3a, 38. 
GlopalaiapaiiyupaniKad, (ii) 745. 
Ourujaaiia vasisi.ha-fcatt.va- ! 
.sfiraya la, 5, 8, 509. 

Ham.sagita. 4, (1. 

ITanumana Pandit, 31. 

Hariglfca, 13, 14. 


Harltagita, 4. 

Harivaihsa Piirana. (ii) 787. 

Harsa, 56, 

IsavAsyopanisad, 284, 317, 381, 

432, 442, 490, 500, 501, 
503, 504, 537, 543, 583, 
603, (ii) 742, 748, 763, 888, 
(ii) 998, 1115. 

Isvaragita, 5. 

rsvarakrsiia, 307, 208, 320, 321, 
258. 

! 

j Jabala Samnyasopanisad. 133, 

! 433, 470, 471, (ii) 636,639. 

Jainiiui (Mimaiusa-Sutras), 73, 
i 401,613, (ii) 738,754, 761. 

■ Jaiaiini-Sutras, 31, 73, 94, 435. 
i Jilanusvara, 26, 345, 346, 449, 
(ii) 705, 754. 

Kaivalyopaiiis.'id, 324,471, 538, 
(ii) 998, 1016, 1144, 1174. 

Ka'lalia,purl, 218. 

. Kale, (ii) 785, 788, 794. 

iGaliditsa, 56, 99, 113, 139, 172, 
441, 467, 469, 559, (ii) 726, 
(ii) 787, 793. 

lGainaUl.lvaralih.j.tla, (ii) 705. 

Ivaiiadii, 305. 

Kapila, 208, (ii) 761, 762, 777. 

Kapila-gifca, 5, 6. 

K.afc I uisari t-siiga ri,., 56, 

Kaihopanisad, 76, 126, 160, 

190, 197, 216, 231, 245, 

273. 284, 301, 313, 324, 

341, 343, 412, 413, 430, 

433, 503, 567, 602, 610, 

(ii) 740, 74], 747, 764, 8 O 3 ’ 
(ii) 876, 880,888,997.1036, 
(ii) 1136, 1141, 1166, 1186,’ 
(ii) 1205. 


Grarbhopanisad, 254. 
Gtarudapu.ravia, 6. 

Gratha, (See, Tukarama)., 
Glaudapada, 207, 




84 


GiTA-RAHASYA OR KARMA-YOGA 


Kaiisitakyupanisad, 85, 98, 

383, 368, 400, 409, 516, 
(ii) 675, 1022, 1029,1183. 
Kautilya, (ii) 629, 787. 
Kenopanisad, 284, 319, 434, 
567, 587. 

Kesari (lion), 356. 

Kesava Kasmiri Bhattacarya, 


Mahabharata— {contd.) 
Bhlsmiparva, 68, 272, 410,, 
(ii) 731, 737, 733. 
Dronaparva, 52, 76, (ii) 727. 
Kaniaparva, 47, 53, 90, 141, 
(ii) 718, 725, 727, 731. 
Sabhdparva, 147, 398, (ii) 791. 
Scdyapnrva, 60. 


Adiparva, 41, 42, 46, 47, 48, 
5;, 52, 61, 65,106,143,266, 
368, 404, 558, (ii) 626, 718, 
(ii) 723, 724, 738, 788, 789. 
Anusamna-parva, 43, 44, 46, j 
52, 68, 94, 373, 404, 527, ' 
538, 539, 541, (ii) 701, 755, 1 
(ii) 789, 790, 1065, 1072, 1 
(ii) 1076, 1136, 1137. j 
A^ramava.dka-parva, (ii) 678. | 
Asvamedha-purva, 2, 4, 52,62, ■ 
80, 214, 244, 392, 438, 443, i 
465, 474, 614, 617, (ii) 663, ' 
(ii) 669, 671, 691, 724, 730, ' 
(ii) 738,740,789,801, 1028, 
(ii) 1071, 1126,1128, 1135, 
(ii) 1195. 


^‘ntlparva, 4, 12, 13, 43, 44, 
48, 51, 53, 54, 57, 58, 61, 
62, 65, 66, 68, 72, 79, 90„ 
96, 129, 130, 132, 138, 144, 
147, 149,150.152. 161,162,, 
172, 182,183, 208, 210,214, 
223, 224, 229, 231, 254, 262, 
264, 266, 274, 275, 280, 286, 
299, 303,309,316, 347,3.59, 
365,366,368, 379, 381, 383, 
386, 392, 402, 404, 405,407, 
408, 420,424, 433,434,436, 
437,439,444, 451, 458, 468,, 
470, 472. 473, 474, 477,478, 
485, 486, 510, 513,527,538, 
539, 540, 549, 552, 553, 587, 
615, 617, (ii) 622, 660, 696, 
(ii) 699, 700, 718, 723, 724, 
(ii) 727, 728, 729, 730, 731, 
(ii) 732, 733. 734, 735, 739, 
(ii) 740, 750, 755, 758, 766, 
(ii) 767, 778, 779, 783, 788, 
(ii) 789, 812, 860, 877, 892, 
(ii) 910, 919, 920, 921, 928, 
(ii) 940, 972, 989, 994, 998, 
(ii) 1005, 1015, 1018, 1021, 
(ii) 1028, 1032, 1038, 1053, 
(ii) 1055, 1056, 1065, 1067, 
(ii) 1068, 1073, 1081, 1084, 
(ii) 1088, 1147, 1149, 1150, 
(ii) 1154, 1195, 1198, 1205. 


25. 

Khun-Phu-Tae, (See Coiifn- 
cius). 

Kirata, (See, Bharavi). 

Kreaiananda Svami, 38. I 

Ksirasvami, 258 ( foot-note ). i 

Kuran, (See, Quran), 33. j 

Kurma-purana, 5. 

Linga-purana, 445, 

Madhusudana, 20. 

Madhvacarya, (See, Auanda- j 
tirtha), 23, 25, 428, (ii) 750, j 
(ii) 752, 766, 892, j 

Maghakavya, 607. 

Mahabharata;— 





INDEX OF AUTHORS (not foreign) AND THEIR WORKS 85 


Mahabhar.ita— {coned.) 

Strvparvi 190, (ii) 727. 

Svargartihema-parva, 52,127, 
(ii) 737. 

UdyogapariMi., 52, 55, 61, 62, 
64,127, 140, 147, 470, 473, 
545, 552, 553, (ii) 629, 673, 
(ii) 71!', 728, 729, 730, 750, 
(ii) 779, 786, 812. 

Vanapm-HI 45, 48, 57, 58, 60, 
68 , 97, 100, 138, 146, 182, 
190, 210, 380, 381, 406, 
439, 443, 444, 478, 527, 
547, 589, 615, (ii) 673, 700, 
(ii) 718, 728, 740, 788, 810. 

Virataparva, 529. 

Mahanarayaaopanisad, (ii) 744. 

Mahapariaibbaiia Sutta, (Pali), 
(ii) 818 

.Mahavagga (Pali), 545, (ii) 797, 
(ii) 801, 810. 

Mahavamsa, (Pali), (ii) 802, 

Maitryupanieaci, 182, 184, 231, 
246, 259, 340, 348,381, 390, 
392, 396, 405, 503, (ii) 743, 
(ii) 744, 762, 764, 772, 775, 
(ii) 776, 778, 960, 1005, 
(ii) 1034, 1142. 

.Mandukyopanisad, 309, 338. 

Jklankigita, 4. 

.Manu-Smrti, 43, 44, 46, 47, 49, 
51, 55, 56, 58, 59, 60,62, 
63, 64, 65, 68, 90, 94, 95, 
100, 14(', 143, 145, 149, 
1,62, 17T 172, 230, 246,260, 
263, 264, 266, 348, 365, 368, 
373, 374,384, 393,403,405, 
407,456, 462,467,472, 484, 
485, 487, 488, 497, 499, 504, 


Manu-Smr ti^-(c(OTid.) 

506, 507, 538, 541, 547, 554, 
(ii) 658, 676, 700, 755, 765, 
(ii) 786, 809, 852, 862, 902, 
(ii) 919, 920, 935, 936, 942, 
(ii) 961, 983, 998, 1038, 
(ii) 1065, 1072,1103, 1128, 
(ii) 1164, 1175, 1193. 

Markandeya, (ii) 674. 

Matsya-Puran.i, (ii) 1065. 

Milindaprakna, (Pali), 81, 516, 
615, (ii) 675, 805, 807, 812, 
(ii) 814, 815. 

MimamBa, (See, Jaimini). 

Moropanta, 93. 

Mrcohakatika, 56. 

Mundakopanisad, 242,273, 284, 
285, 301, 318, 341, 343, 
344, 353, 381, 413, 433, 
479, (ii) 740,803, 888,1013, 
(ii) 1016. 

Murari'kavi, 11. 

Naganaiida, 56. 

Narada-Pancaratra, (ii) 674, 
(ii) 766, 767. 

Naradapurana, 6. 

Narada-Sutrus, 573, (ii) 766, 
(ii) 767. 

Narayaniya-dharma, 473, 512. 

Naray an ly opan is ad, 471. 

Nilakaritha, (ii) 721. 

Niinbarkaoarya, 24. 

Nirnayasindhu, 476. 

N'itisafcaka, 113. 

Niriikta, ( See, Yaska). 

Nrsithha-Purana, 5, 506, 507, 

NrKimhottai-a-tapaniyopanisad, 
350, (ii) 745. 




86 


GiTA-BAHASYA OR KARMA-YOGA 


Oka ( K. G.), 258. 

Orion, (ii) 773, 776,1077. 

Padmapurana, 5, 6. 
Paisacabhasya, 21, 

Pali Works, ( See list). 
Pancadasi, 289, 350, 516. 
Pancaratra, (ii) 778, (See, 
Narada-Sutra.s). 
Pancasikha, 209. 

PandavagUa, 5. 

Pandit Jvalaprasad, 5. 
Panini-Sutras, 184, 372, (ii)745, 
(ii) 768, 774. 

Parakhi, (ii) 7()3. 

Parasaraglta, 4. 
Patanjala-Sutras, 321. 
Pingalaglta, 4, 471. 
Prasnopaniaad, 254, 301, 338, 
503. 

Puraiias, ( See, list). 
Purusa-Sukta, 339. 

Quran, (See, Kuran), 33. 

Raghuvamsa, 99. 

Ramagita, 5. 

Ramanujacarya, 21, 22, 427, 
(ii) 703, 750, 752, 758, 766, 
(ii) 780. 

Eamapurva tapinyupanisad, 
575, 586, (ii) 745, 763, 774. 
Eamayana;—■ 

Aranyakanda, (ii) 1076-7 
Ayodhyakanda, 61. 
Balakanda, 59. 

Uttarakanda, 99. 
Yuddhakanda, 551. 

Rame,sa Gandra Datta,(ii)830. 
Ranade, Sarhkara Moro (Saih- 
kara-Kavi), 218, 372. 


j Rg-Veda, 45, 231, 245, 284, 

292, 302, 307, 314, 337, 

347, 349, 350, 351, 353, 
354, 355, 363, 388, 400, 

401, 403, 410, 478, 502, 

552, 591, (ii) 919, 956, 
(ii) 1054, 1078, 1115, 1135. 

S a b b a s a V a B u 11 a, (Pali), 

! (ii) 804, 807. 

I Saddharma Pundarika, (Pali), 

I (ii) 799, 814 

! Saivapuraiia, 7. 

\ Sakuntala, 113, 172. 

! Samartba (Raniadasa, Dasa- 
bodha), 57, 138, 197, 216, 

! 251,252,388,421,443,524, 

I 536, 543, 552, 554, 611, 612, 

I (ii) 658, 706. 

! Samhitas, (See, list). 

I Samkarabhasya, 16, 20, 110,. 
(ii) 792, 873. 

Saihkaracarya, 15, 20, 110, 

133, 207, 228, 242, 305, 

364, 428, 445, 475, (ii) 693, 
(ii) 701, 703, 704, 720, 722, 
(ii) 752, 792. 

Sainkbya-Karika, 131,181, 207, 
208, 213, 214, 216, 222, 

223, 225, 244, 246, 257, 

261, 275, 377, (ii) 1063, 

(ii) 1126, 1128, 1154. 

Sami)akagita, 4. 

Sandilya-Sutras, 572, (ii) 767. 

SaptaMokiglta, 7. 

Saririka-Sutras, (See, Vedanta- 
Sutras). 

Sarkara, Babu Kisorilal,. 
(ii) 691. 



INDEX OF AUTHORS (not foreign) AND THElH WORKS 87 


Sarvopanisad, 298. 

Sastitantra, 208, 

Satapatha Brahmana, 432, 
(ii) 1081. 

Saundarananda, (Pali), (ii) 787, 
(ii) 798. 

Selasutta, (Pali), (ii) 772, 801, 
(ii) 813. 

Sivadina Kesarl, 509, 

Sivagita, 

Skandapuj'fina., 5. 

Srldtiara, ;l(), (ii) 750. 

Subhasita: 52. 

Sui-yagita, 5. 

Surya-Siddbanfca, 263, 264. 
Sutagita, 5. 

Sutasarhhita, 5. 

Sutras, ( Sise, list). 
Suttanipata,(l’ali), 541,(ii)797. 
(ii) 800, 803, 807, 809, 815. 
Svetasvataropanisad, 221, 231, 
253, 254, 280, 284, 289, 
301, 307, 341, 381, 432, 
490, 500, 580, (ii) 741, 742, 
(ii) 744, 747, 943, 992, 

(ii) 1036, 1114, 1137, 1145. 

Taittiriya Brahmana, 231, 250, 

347, 348, 363, (ii) 1135 -6. 
Taittiriya Sainhita, 307, 403, 

469, 488, (ii) 744. 
Taittiriyop iniirad, 46, 58, 61, 
98,171,210,231, 234,250, 
251, 254, 284, 28.5, 287, 
308, 317, 322, 337, 338, 

348, 354, 361, 381, 403, 
4.13, 4;i2, 490, 500, 504, 
507, 512, 580, (ii) 928, 
(ii) 1152, 1166. 

Takakasu, 151. 


Taranatha, (Pali), (ii) 798, 818. 

Tattvaprakadilca, 25. 

Telang, 21. 

Tevijjasntta ( Trevijjasutra), 
(Pali), (ii) 810, S13. 

Theragatha, (Pali), (ii) 772, 813. 

Tnkarama, (See, Gatba), 25, 
110, 115, 120, 144, 318, 
320, 343, 388, 461, 534, 
578, 580, 585, 590, 598, 

600, 603, 603f, 606, 609, 
610, 611, 615, 617. 

Udilna, (Pali), (ii) 893. 

Upanisads, (See list). 

Urubliahga, 7. 

Uttaragita, 5. 

Uttarai-amacarltra, 98. 

Vagbhata, (ii) 1162. 

Vaidya, Cintaiuana Vinayaka, 
(ii) 722, 738, 771, 785, 786, 
(ii) 790, 799. 

VajaBaiieyi Saiiibita, 354, 505 

Vairasuoynpanisad, (ii) 787. 

Vallabhacarya, 24, (ii) 752. 

Vamana Pandit (See, Wathar- 
thadlpika). 

Varahapurana, 7. 

Vaththugatha, (Pali), (ii) 803. 

Vaynpurana, 7. 

Vedas, (See, list). 

Vedangajyotisa, (ii) 775, 776. 

Vedantasara, 332 

Vedanta- (Saririka-, Brahma-) 
Sutra.s, 10, 44, 133, 202, 
205, 210, 231, 244, 254, 

259, 262, 266, 285, 293, 
304, 337, 339, 364, 365, 
368, 372, 375, 377, 382,. 



88 


GITA-RAHASYA OR KARMA-YOGA 


V edanta-Sutras—( contd .) 

388, 390, 397, 406, 410, 

412, 414, 433, 435, 437, 

464, 465, 470, 479, 483, 

490, 499. 

Vedanta-Sutras, Ramanuja- 
bhasya, (ii) 758. 

Vedanta-Sutras, Saihkara- 
blmsya, 110, 199, 210, 224, 
228, 242, 270, 272, 304, 

305, 36i, 374, 378, 385, 

388, 411, 445, 475, 483. 

567, (ii) 703. 813. 

Vioakhyugita, 4. 

Vidura, 127. 

Visriupurana, 5, 161, 265, 

(ii) 767, 771, 1065, 1066. 


Vrtragita, 4, 

Vyasagita, 5. 

Yadavarav Varvikar, 60. 

Yajnavalkya, 49, 171, 487, 506, 
598. 

i Yamagita, 5. 

Yaska, (Nirukta), 251, 

264, 409, 412, 488, (ii) 755, 
(ii) 786, 1038. 

Yatharthadipika, (See Vamana 
Pandit), 27. 

Yogatattvopanisad, (ii) 747, 
(ii) 774. 

Yogavasistha, 3, 8, 394, 434, 
449, 460, 508, (ii) 896, 925, 
(ii) 926. 




INDEX OF DEFINITIONS of Terminological Expressions 
given in the Gita-Rahasya, 


This Index was first added to the 1923 Marathi edition 
of the text published after the death of the author. The 
index, which is of Sanskrit expressions, had been arranged in 
the original, according to the Sanskrit alphabet, and has been 
re-arrangad liy me according to the English alphabet, letters 
with diacritical signs being indexed, as if there were no such 
signs, ilfter each Hanskrit word, I have, wherever necessary, 
added its English translation in brackets, as appearing in the 
translaticii of the text. I have named this as Pifi't I of the 
Index of Definitions. In Part 11, I have indexed the English 
translaticn of the same words, according to alphabetical 
arrangement, and placed within brackets after the English 


word its fiauskrit equivalent as appearing in Part I of the Index. 
Part II has boon specially prepared by me for the convenience 
of readers, who are unacquainted with the Sanskrit langu¬ 
age. The figure (ii) before a figure or row of figures means 
Vol II.—'.Cranslator. 

(N, B. This Index covers oiily pages 1 to 831 of the translation.) 

PART I—SANSKRIT. 


d)hyasa, (repetition), 30, (ii) 656. 
cicara-safnqra/ia, (cjcrde of con¬ 
duct) (ii) 665. 

acura-iartainija, (discrimination 
in conduct), 64-5. 
adhib/uiutika-iiiUrga, (Materi¬ 
alistic determination of 
Ethics), 528. 

ddliibliautikn-'j)antha, (Materi¬ 
alistic School), 84, (ii) 686. 
udhildmutika-sdstrddvaita, 

(Gross Non-Dualism), 219. 
ddkibhautika - miklui - duhkha, 
(Physical Pain and 
Happiness), 130. 
udhibhautika-sakhavada, (Ma¬ 
terialistic theory of Hap¬ 
piness), 104. 


mUdbhautika-dv'icana, (Materi¬ 
alistic Consideration), 84. 
adkidaivata~piik.^a, (Intuitionist 
School), 167 to 176, (ii) 686. 
adhldtivi/ca-rnur I/a, (IntuiiiomBt 
determination of Ethics) 
528. 

adhidaimka-panl ha, (Intu i- 
tionist school), 84, (ii) 686. 
ddhidaivika-sukha-duhJeha,(God- 
given Pain and Happi¬ 
ness) 130. 

ddhidaivika-viveca na, (Theolo- 
gical Consideration),84,85, 
adhikdra, (Qualification), 464. 
adhii>thdnam, (Superintendence) 
198, 

adhydtma, (Metaphysics), 85. 



90 


GiTA-RAHASYA OR KARMA-YOGA 


adhyatma-paksa, (Metaphysical 
School), 85. 

adhydtmilca-marga, (Metaphy¬ 
sical determination of 
Ethics), 539. 

adhyatmilm-pantha, (Metaphy¬ 
sical school), 85, (ii) 686. 
ddhyafmika-sukfia-duhicha, (Me¬ 
taphysical Pain and 
Happiness), 131. 
<idhyaimika-vivecan<i, (Metaphy¬ 
sical consideration), 85. 
adhyavasaya, (or vyamsUya) 
183. 

adrsta, (invisible), 374. 
advaitavuda, (N on-Dualism), 
19, 30. 31. 
ughusi, 403. 

ahamkara, (Individuation), 197, 
199, 336,237, 243, 346, 349. 
ahai'nkara-buddhi, (egoism), 151. 
ahi. msd-dJ)nrma, (Harmlessness) 
43, 43. 

ajrlana, (Ignorance), 301, 337, 
(ii) 743. 

umrta (nmnasi brahman], (Imper¬ 
ishable Brahman), 501. 
umrta, (Brahman), 502, 504. 
arnrta, (food after sacrifice), 403. 
arnrta, (Fundamental Sub¬ 
stance), 306. 

anirta, (Release), 503, 506. 
arnrta, (sphere of deities), (ii) 503, 
' (ii) 504. 

amrtaii, (sacrifice-remnant- 
eater), 535. 

amrtatva, {Immortality ), 

(ii) 682, 693. 

anddi, (of unknown beginning) 
365. 


ananda, (beatitude), 317. 
anandarnaya, (beatific), 317. 
dnandaniaya-kosa, (beatific en¬ 
velope), 361. 
ananta, (endless), 340. 
andrabdha-karya, (uncommen¬ 
ced Karma), 375, 376, 377. 
aniruddha, (Individuation ), 
266. 

annamaya-kosa, (food-envelope), 
361. 

anrta, (invisible), 336, 337. 
anfarahga-pariksana, (internal 
examination), 9. 
anubliavadvaita, 508. 
anumUna, (inference), 568, 
apaddharma, (Moral conces¬ 
sions), 67. 

aparasvarupa, (inferior form), 
247. 

aparoksdnubhava, 3,5. 
aptamcana-prarnana, (credible 
persons, belief in) 570. 
apurva, (strange), 374. 
apurvatd, (newness), 31. 
drahdh/i-kdrya, (or, prUratrdha) 
(Commenced Action), 374, 
to 377, 601. 

dra'f'nbhrmda, (Theory of Com¬ 
mencement), 304-5, 331. 
arhat, (Perfect), (ii) 675. 
drtam, (Perishable), 307. 
arthavdda, (obiter dicta), 31, 
33, (ii) 657. 

arya-sutya, (sublime verity), 
(ii) 806. 

asambhuti, (Ignorance), 501. 
asat, (Brahman), 338. 
amt, (unreal), 310, 337. 
dsdvudi, (optimist), (ii) 695. 



INDEX OF DEFINITIONS 


91 


astadha-prakrti, (aightfold Pra- 
krt:0, 247, 248. 
asteun, (Not-stealing), 54. 
asuhhakirma, (evil action), 373. 
amra-sat'npid, (ungodly endow¬ 
ment), 148, 
dtmi, (self), 558. 
nlma-jndm (Self-knowledge), 

385 

utmunisi hn-hiiddlu, (Self-devoted 
Rei.Hon), 191. 

uttrui-ni.dhala, (Self-devotion), 
386, (ii) 807. 

dtnui-sa / kra ksaiui , (self-protec- 

tion), 56, 57. 

ahnan, independent tendency | 
of, 385 

Ulman, { Ksetrajna, Self ), 199, 
avifj!i/(7,(Ignorance), 289, (ii)742, 
(ividtjd, (Karma), 501, 502, 503, 
504, 505, 

(ivi/akta, (Imperceptible), 215. 

baliiraiuu pariksuna, (external 
examination), 9, 10, 
hhaga, (Irlessedne.ss), 161,162. 
hhdgavaui, 475. 

lk/iu(juvaru-(/Jiarrna, (Bhagavata I 
docirine, or religioTi), 14, 
473 489, (ii) 700, 766, 770. j 
bhakti, (Devotion), 572, (ii)744. 
hhakti, uplisand), (Devotion), 
572. 


brahumnirvLina-moksa, 343, 
brahmanispiu, (devotee of Brah¬ 
man), 315, 

brahmarpana, (dedication to 
Brahman), 153. 

brahrmrpa'na - purvaka - karma, 
(Action dedicated to Brah¬ 
man) 603, 

fmihmutinaiki/fj-ftlhifi, (State of 
identifying the Brahman 
with the Atman), 320. 
bruhnia-.psti, (Brahman-world) 
359. ' 

brahina-sTdrus, 16. 
hrahrna-vTk^a, (Cosmic-Tree), 
243-5.' 

brrdirni, (Brilhmic), 344,414,515. 
buddha, (wise, sage, or en¬ 
lightened) 224,522. 
buddhi, (Reason), 181 to 183, 
(ii) 672, 679, 680, 681, 683. 
dltnaniMha-, (Self-devoted), 
191. " 

functions of, 186 to 190. 
kinds of, 236. 
rajasi-, (Active), 189! 
sadasadviveka-, (Conscience), 
168. 

sarna-, (Equable), 342, 
Hidtvikl-, (J’lacid), 189. 
lamasi-, (Evil), 189. 
vasandfinika-, ( Practical or 


bhakti-rn'irga, (Path of Devo- Desiring, ) 186 to 188, 

tior), 89, 576, 577, 578, (ii) 683. 

595, (ii) 648, 649, 650, 744. i wjdvasUymndku-, (Pure, or 


hhakti-ycgd, (Yoga of Devotion) j discerning or discriminat- 
(ii) 640. ing) 186, (ii) 683. 


Masya, (coniinentary), 9, 16. toddMdicda, (causingdifference 
hrakrnan, 308. of vision), 458. 



92 


gita-rahasya or karma-yoga 


buddhi-ijoga, (Yoga of Equable 
Reason), 531. 

caitanyam, (Consciousness), 194, 
335, 

carvdka-dhw'rna, (Garvaka’s 
Ethics), 105-7. 

mturvarmja-dliarma (four-class- 
arrangement), 89, 


dhartna, (Upa«iisadic), (ii) 817. 
dharma, (various meanings), 
(ii) 657, 707. 

dharmadharrna-nirvaya, (right 
and wrong, determination 
of), 96-101. 

j dluirma-pravacana, 89. 

I dhdrana-dharma, 90-91. 


caturvidha purusarUui. (four- dhalu, (memorial), 89. 

fold ideal of manhood), 88 . dhdtu-gurbha, (Dagoba), (ii) 789. 
caturmjuha, (fourfold genesis), dhrli, (cohesion), 195. 

(ii) 757, 758. duhkha, (Pain, or unhappiness) 

cetand, (activity), 194. 130. 

cidrupi, (thought-formed), 335. durjmjjurafnbha, (anddi), 366. 
dt, (Knowledge), 315, 335, .barndmita, (Dual-non-Dual- 
dlta, (Consciousness), 183. igm), 25. 

codana, (inspiration), 94-5. dvivyuha, (ii) 758. 

codana-dhcirnia, (inspired mora¬ 
lity), 94-95. ekuTifilid-dharina, 13. 

, ., . , ehzvyuha, (ii) 758. 

daim, (destiny), 370, 452, 433 ^ 444 ^ 

daivl-maya, (divine Illusion), 

329. j gandtui-tarmdtra, 240. 

datavya, (that, to give which, j (or srti), (goal, or path), 
is a duty), 548. j 410. 


devayana, (godly path), 408, 
409* 410, 411, 413, 414. 
dharrna, (Buddhist), 800-803. 
dharma, (cdturvarnya), 89. 
dharrm, (deity), 170. 
dharma, (ekdntika), 13. 
dharma, ( garhasthya ), ( Bud¬ 
dhist ), (ii) 808. 

dharma, (general meaning), 93. 
dharma, (Jain), (ii) 817. 
dharma, (Jewish), (ii) 822. 
dharma, (next-world), 88 . 
dharma, (prakrt), 93. 
dharma, (social meaning), 
90-91. 


ijita, meaning of, 4. 

(jUd, (smrti), (ii) 751, 752, 754, 
(ii) 783. 

gita-dharma-catuhsutri, 154-5. 
gitd-tdtparya, 12 to 15. 
grantha-parikmna, (examina¬ 
tion of a book), 9. 
granlha-tatparya-nirnaya, (as¬ 
certaining summary of a 
book), 30. 

guna, (quality or constituent), 
278,330. 

gunapari'hdmavdda, (Develop¬ 
ment of qualities, theory 
of), 234, 331. 





INDEX OF DEFINITIONS 


93 


gtinotkar,%i, (Development of 
qualities), 234, 331. 

Afnaynwt, (inferior path), (ii) 815. 

icchd-svafa/htrya, (Freedom of 
will), 371. 

indira, (i) xxxvii, (ii) 1210. 
indriya, (souse, or organ), 238. 
Uvarl-snkti, (divine power), 364. 

jadadvcuKt, (tcross mni-diialisin)' 
219, 33(;. 

jdlii/idfro iHi.jini, 89. 
jaya, 2, 42, (ii) 738. 
jiva, (PerriOtial Self), 247, 289. , 
jivan-muida, (Inrtlweleased, or 
relea.st d-ij'-life), 415, (ii) 640 
jivaninnki (iva.sfli.a, (Itoleased- 
in-lile st atu) 463. 
jlvatman, (Personal Self), 368. 
jna, (Kno vor), 219. 
jnanu, (Knowledge) 275, 380-3. 
jilana, true, 295, 342. 
jnana-bliwuiyitktn-lainmi - /joi/d, 
(ii) 6ti4, 

j fi ana-Ic'd nda, 401. 
jdWna-kari.ia-s'iniucniya, 427-8, 
603. 

jndna-indrijii, (Datli of know- 
lodge), 576-7, 596, (ii) 649. 
judna-inayii-kinui, (Knowledge- 


i jnamn, (sage) 408, 414. 

} kdla, (Time), 410. 

I kdrtid, (Desire), 151, 452, 454. 

I Icdmi/a, (Desire-prompted), 74, 
I 484. 

I knpUa-sdi'nkhua, 205, 209, 215. 

I karma, (Action), 72-76, 362-6. 

I Imrma, (dJidrinika-), 73. 

I karnin, (kdinya-j, 74, 484. 

I karma, (naindltika-), 74. 

: karma, (iiisiddha-7, 74. 

! karma, (nifyn-J, 74. 

• karma (nivrtta-j 484, 497. 

% karma, (pravrlfa), 484, 497. 

\ karmi* (paur('miku-/, 74. 
i karmi (jmruidrdia-). I'l. 
i kiirma, (amdrtii-}, 73. 

■ karma, (sratiia-). 73. 

: lainiia, (yajnart/ia-), 72. 

\i karma, yajm-ydija-, 72. 

I kanna-bandhu, (bondage of 
Karma), 395-400. 

I karma-bhoga, ( Karma-suffer- 
!, ing), 376. 

i lairmu-jijudsd, (desire to know 
I Higiat Action), 40, TO. 

kurnidkarina-vfvecana, (the do- 
altle and not-doable in 
tho Gita), (ii) 719. 


onvelcpu), 361. 

jndna-idgtlid, 20, 420, 577, 
(ii) 640. 

jndna-purii ivasthd, 320. 

jndna-rijndua, (.spiritual aijid 
empirical knowledge), 431, 
(ii) 649 to 651. 

jnunendriya-vyupdra, (activitiars 
of organ.s of Perception) 
178-9, 186. 


latrma-kmyn, (destruction of 
Karma), 395 -400. 
kanna-mukli, (or nainkarmya- 
siildhi), (Release frotn 
Karma), 378. 

Icnrma-mstha (or yuga, or kaima- 
yoga, 420, (ii) 640. 
karma-pravdha, (course of Des¬ 
tiny), 369, 373. 



94 


GlTA-KAHASYA OB KARMA-YOGA 


karrna-sai'nnyam, (Abandon¬ 
ment of Action), 416, 417. 
karnut.-fyaga, (Abandonment of 
Action), 441-444. 

— (rajasaj, 442. 

— (sattmka), 443. 

— (tarnasa), 441. 

Imrma-fyaga-nis&lha, (depreca¬ 
tion of Aliandonment of 
Action), 153-155. 
karmn-vipaka, (Cansality), 366. 
karrna-yoga, 80, 148, 417, 418, 
420, 512, 563, 607, (ii) 627, 
(ii) 638, 639, 655, 660, 665, 
(ii) 700,704, 747. 
karma-yoga, (in the Gita), 432, 
423.' 

karr^a-yoga-sas/ra, 71, 83, 

(ii) 665. 

karma,-yogin sthita/mijm, 531. 
karmatka, (ritualist), 408. 
karriiendriya-vydpara, (Activity 
of organs of Action), 178, 
184-185. 

kartavijit-dlianna-moha, (doubt 
as to Duty) 33 to 39. 
lairlavya-kanna, (Duty), 88. 
karlavya-mudha, (uncertain 
whether to act or not to 
act), 38-41. 

kurydkdrya-nirnaya (determina¬ 
tion of the doable and the 
not-doable), 87-91. 
kuydgni, (bodily-fire) 184-5. 
kiwuamukU, (gradual Release), 
412. 

kraiu, (sacrifice), 72. 
kratvdrtlia, 72, 


kriyamaya, ( To-be-suffered), 
375. 

fcTSTia-marga, (dark path), 409. 
kTSndrfxiTia, (dedication to 
Krena), 153. 

krmdrpam-parixika-karma (Ac¬ 
tion dedicated to Krsua), 
603, 604. 

/c.samu, (Forgiveness), 44-45. 
ksara and ukmra, (Mutable and 
Immutable), 193. 
kyetra, (Body, or Field), 195. 
kyelra-ksefrajila-vicdra, 177,193. 
kyelrajna, (Atman), 199. 

Huga-surlra, (Subtle Body), 361. 
lokasamgralia, (Universal wel¬ 
fare), 456-8, 463, 502, 563. 

itmhal)hurata, 41,(ii) 737, 
nmhayuna-punlha, (ii) 815. 
inuiiah'puta, (Mind-sanctioned), 
171. 

nianas, (Mind), 178-9; 180-186. 
mamis (vyakuranUf maka), 182-5. 
mwnuvadharma, (religion of 
humanity), (ii) 708. 
manodamta, (mental deity, or 
Conscience), 168. 
mmomaya-kosa, (raental-onvc- 
lopo), 361. 

nidrga, (/i;rsHH-),(dark path),409. 
murqa, {sukla-), (lighted path), 
409. 

mufrii, (external world), 135. 
nidtrasparki, (contact with the 
external world), 135. 
inaya, 217, 288, 301, 307, 363, 

■ 363, 364, (ii) 742. 
mdya, (daivi), (Divine Illusion), 
329. 

maya-srsti, (Mayic world), 359. 




INDEX OB' DEFINITIONS 


95 


mhriUfnsa, (purva-) 4tTl. 
mima/'/isu, (uftara), 401. 
mimUmsalva-rnurga, (-path), 401. 
mimamm-ftiUra-H, 401. 

7iiUhy<i, (lilusury), 398. 
moha, (Ignorance), 301, 337. 
mokm ioriih/nanirmnii), 343, 
(ii) 657, (189. 
inoksd, (Ssimkhya), 233. 
molcHd-dhontiri, (Science of Re¬ 
lease '. 89, 

mr/yu, (ni;)rtal world), 501. 
mukki, (Released), 334. 
muktu {kr viia-), 41.3. 
mukh, (viiJaka-), 413. 

rn ula-prn I :r/i, (Fu iid amen till 

Prak.-Ci), 345. 

na-prnkft:~ii<i vikfH, ( neitlior 
Pralc/ti nor EvolvrUO, 345. 
nidmitlika. (occasional), 74. 
mi^karmiu, 378, (ii) 779. 
7iaiyk(t:rtnr(i,-l(iksti;iiit, (dosirev 
les.sl/ Activistic), 473. 
naiskarnua-H/ddIU, (or kariiui- 
mukfl), ( Release by abstin¬ 
ence from Kiinna), 378, 
(ii) 779. 

iifiina-rupa, (Name juicl Form), 
396. 


■nirmira, (Non-enmity), 547- 
553. 

mrimui, (Release), (ii) 807. 
nirvdya, state of, 319, 
j nirmna, tran()uility of, 159, 

! rdTvilailpa-Siiitiddki, 320 
nisiihlha, (prohibited), 74. 
niytha, (Final State), 435, 436. 
(ii) 640. 

nih, (Ethics), 88. 
i nili-sdulra, 68. 

I iu/i/a, (daily). 74. 
i n’t(/(t-rmikfrw(i.slha, 345. 

' a/'/ijU',‘t<ikmyu.sin, (Perpetual 
! ascetic), 485, 486. 

I nii:-rthi-kariiiij., (Desireless Ac- 
j tioii), 484, 497. 

idiTlh', (Abandonment of Ac- 
I tion), 497 

: idiTlldmurgd, (Path of Inact- 
! ivity), 19 

: patlcu-mahubJiJi/'i-s, (five gross 
j primordial elements), 342, 

349, 250. 

paucd-jiakha, 54. 

I inuKUiralra, (ii) 766,. 770, 

! (ii) 778. 

I pailcdkanuia, 254-5. 


natmlDn, [ diversity ), 214. 
■iidruijanlija (liiarnui. (Nfirayani- 
ya doctrine), 473, (ii) "OO, 
(ii) 770. 

nusa/lhja mkia, 347. 


; iHirartlui, (otlior’s-interest), 114- 
116, 563. 

■ iHiraindniiva(t(i,{Atonnc Theory) 

i 304-306. 

» 

I paranidrtha, (highest good). 


idrliidvadi, (Pessiniist), (ii) 695. 
nirgiiMi., (tinnlityless), 330. 

'inrijuijd-Uidkii, (worship of the 
()ual ity}e.s.s), 337. 


564. 

jxiraiiidlinan, 374. 
ixri-d pfdkrfi, (superior form), 
347. 


idrgui}a-piirai>r(iliiiHLii, ((Quality- i /idsufxi/a-pun/hti, (ii) 817, 
less Para brahman), 331,570, ^ /.‘dlaitjaki-yoga, (ii) 799. 







96 


GiTA-RAHASyA OR KARMA-YOGA 


pauranika-karma, 74. 
pavatta, (ii) 810 
phaia, (effect), 31, (ii) 656. 
phalasa, (Hope of Fruit), 151, 
452. 

phalasa-tijasja, (abandoning 
Hope of Fruit), 603. 
piv<pi, (Body), 195. 
pitrijana, (ancestral path), 408^ 
409, 410, 411, 413, 414. 
pomna, (see^jiusti), 24, 
pradyumna, (ii) 756. 
prakrti, apara-, 247. 
prakrti, (eight-fold), 247, 248. 
prakrti, (niTdu-), 245. 
prakrti, jxira-, 247. 
prakrti, (rdjasa-), 213-216-, 363- 
364. 

prttkrti., (sattva-J, 213-216 ; 363- 
364. 

prakrti, (tUmasa-), 213-216; 363- 
364. 

jyrakrli, (three-constituented ), 
363. 

prakrti-mkrti, 245, 
pralaya, 262. 
pram, (.vital force), 242. 
prdrabdha, ( Commenced Ac¬ 
tion), 374-377. 601 
prdrambha, (commencement 
of the Gita ), (ii) 656. 
prasthana-trayl, 17. 
pratika (symbol), 284, 584, 
jrratijnd-pala-na (vows, observ¬ 
ance of, 52-53. 

jiravrtta-karma, ( desireful Ac¬ 
tion), 484, 497. 

pravrtii-svatainfrya, (Freedom of 

Will), 371, 388. 


pi'eya, (desired), 126,157-159. 
prthaktva (individuality), 236. 
purna-yoga, 345. 
purum, (Spirit), 219. 
puruaTirlha, (objects of man¬ 
hood), 72, 88. 
purusattama, 274. 
purva-mlmamsa, 401. 
jyiiispi, 24,159-161. 
prusii-inarga, (Path of Divine 
Dispensation), 24. 

raga, (love or desire), 454. 
rdjn-gnhya, (king of mysteries), 
581, 582-3, 591, (ii) 646, 
648. 

raja~-mdyd, (king of sciences), 
581-583, 591, (ii) 646, 648. 
rajas, 213. 

rajasi-buddht, (Active Reason),, 
189. 

rasa-ianrnaira, 240. 
rk-chanda, (ii) 726. 
rnpn-iaiirnritrn, 240. 

sabda-tanindtra, 240. 
sadacarana, (Good conduct) 89. 
sadasadviveka, 168-17 0. 

sadasadvivekadniddhi, ( Con¬ 
science), 169. 
saiva, 474. 

samafd, ( Equality or equabi¬ 
lity), 548. 

samatr.a-bv.ddhi-yoga, (Yoga of 
Equable Reason), 530-1. 

(Fundamental Cause), 
501. 

sa/hcifa, (Accumulated), 374. 
santga, (Desire), 151, 451, 454. 
safnga (Hope of Fruit), 151, 452. 




INDEX OF DEFINITIONS 


sathghUta, (Collection), 197-198. 
samgralia, (Benefit), 457. 
mnhilpa, 181. 

m niktxlpa -1 'ikalpatmuka, 181, 

242. 

samkhtja, (jnanin ), 420, 489, 
506,(11)027, 631, 640, 641, 
(ii) 655, 661-2. 

samkhya, (root meaning), 207. 
samkhya, <’two meanings), 207. 
scmikhya-i istha, (ii) 640. 
sarimyusa (Renunciation), 420- 
22, 414-5; 607, (ii) 626-7; 
(ii) 638, 653-4, 704. 
mmnyasa-uisthU, 20 429. 
sa/>myaf>in. (ascetic), 420-21, 
sanmyasin-Mh/tairrajud, 521. 
mfhpat, diuri, (Ungodly En¬ 
dowment), 148. 

aamsara, iCycde of birth and 
death), 367. 

sdmya, (E(iuability), (ii) 673, 
sdnti, (Tranquility or Peace), 
159-60. 

sdrira-dtiwin, (Embodied Self), 
340. 

saririka-sutras, 16. 
sarvabhuta -hUa. (Universal 
welfare), 115-7. 
sarvabhula-lutu, (see, “ greate.st 
good C'f greatest number” 
in part II). 

sdstra, (Science), 100. 
ftat, (Real i, 315, 337-9, 347. 
tiaticuryavdila, 210-11, 326,335. 
mttva, 213, 
saftasainUnya, 297. 
sattdmatratva, 315, 


sat vat a-dh a r rna, (Satvata 
doctrine), 473, (ii) 766, 
(ii) 770. 

srittvikl, ( buddht ), 189. 
satya, (Reality), 45, 297-298, 
299, 307-8. 

satyduTta-viveka, (Determina- 
j tion of Truth and False¬ 
hood) 45-47. 
salyasya-satyain, 306. 

• sehura naiuydyika‘205. 
siddhdvasthd, 345. 
sistucura, (proper conduct), 94, 
SMdrta, 471, 474-6. 
simrla Actions, 73. 
smUrtu-yaj iia, 73. 
sparsa-tu7imdlru, 240, 
muidhu, (Faith), 594. 

I inya, (Meritorious), 126, 

I 157-160. 

I srlt, (or gali), (Path, or goal) 

I 410. 

{ sthitaprajm, 519, (ii) 652. 
sthulu, (Gross), 215. 
s addhddvaita, (Pure Non- 
Dualism), 24. 

suddlia-vdsanU, ( Pure Desire), 
515. 

i suktui, ( udhyatmika ), 131. 

I siik/ui, ( ad/udai.vika) 130. 

I ••iukha, (ddhibluiutika ), 130. 
j siikJuivddu, (Theory of Happi- 
j noB.s), 103. 

j mfcha-duhkha, 130. 
j sukla-mdrga, (Lighted Path‘), 

! 409. 

suksnui, (Subtle ), 215. 
^ksmi-sarh'a (Subtle Body, 
361. 




GITA-RAHASYA OB KARMA-YOGA 




svadharma, (Own-duty), (ii) 697. 
avdrtha, ( Selfishness), 105-15. 

(Pure, Carvaka), 105, 
106-107. 

(Long-sighted, Hobhes), 
109-11. 

(Enlightened), 112-115. 
tamas, 213. 

ianififti-huddhi, ( Evil Reason), 
189. 

lanmatra-B, (^ine Elements), 239. 
gandha-, 240. 
rupa~, 240. 

S(ibda-, 240. 

tapas, (austerities or penance), 
353, 404. 

tat, ( That ), 338. 

Tat-Tvam-Aai, 20-21. 
tika, (criticism), 9, 16. 
Irayl-dharrrui, 401. 
trayl-vidyd, 401. 
tridar.i4a, 485. 
trivyuha, (ii) 758. 
triguridtita, (Beyond the three 
constituents), 226-7, 344, 
5i9, (ii) 652, 690. 
triguTtatUavaatha, 228. 
trigana-samyavastha, 213. 
triguiidtTnaka prakrti, 363. 
trurtkarava, 253. 
tr?nd, (Thirst or Desire), 134. 
turiyavaslha, 320. 
tusti, 159. 

tyaga, (Abandonment), 484, 
(ii) 654. 

tyat, (That), 338. 

uddtta-svartha, (Enlightened 
Self-interest), 113-115. 


utkranti-tdtva, (Evolution The¬ 
ory), 209, h2. 

upakrama, ( Commencement ), 
30. 

upapddana, (Development), 32. 
upapatti, (Development), 32. 
(ii) 656. 

upasamhara, (Conclusion), 30, 
(ii) 656. 

upusanu, (vklya,) 503. 
ujidsana, (hhakti), 572. 
uttara-mimdmsa, 401. 

midika dharnui, (ii) 817. 
ixiidika carrm-yoga, 489. 
vairagya (apathy), 153. 
mi^wi-pantha, 23, 24. 
varmsrarm-d karma, (Four-class 
arrangement), (ii) 718. 
vasuna, (Desire), 186. 
vasariu-.svatni'ntrya, (Freedom of 
Desire), 371. 

vasaniltmika-buddhi, (Desir i ng 
Reason or Practical Rea¬ 
son), 186,187, 528, (ii) 630. 
vastutatm, 297, 301,311. 
vasiidem pararnatman, 286. 
vedunlin, 401. 

(karma-yogin), 489. 
(sanmyasin), 489. 
irideha-mukti, 412. 
vidyd {upasanu}, (worship), 503. 
udya, 283, 381, 501-6, 583. 
vighas, (food, after sacrifice), 
403. 

vikalpa, 181. 
vikrti, (evolutc), 245. 
vinasa (or asambhuli), (Ignor¬ 
ance), 501. 

vindsa, (See atidyd), 501. 




INDEX OF DEFINITIONS 


99 


viiesa, 242, 250. 

■viiistddmifa, { Qualified Mon¬ 
ism), 21 to 23. 

mvarta-vada, 331, 333, 356. 

vyakta, (Perceptible), 193, 215. 

vyavaharika dharma-niti, (Prac¬ 
tical Morality), 93. 

mjavasdya. 182. 

vyavasayu’miku huddhi, 182, 
187, 528, (ii) 630. 

PART II- 

Abandonment, (tyaya), 484, 
(ii) 654. 

Abandonment of Action, (see 
Action). 

Accumulated, (sainclta), 374. 

Action, (,carma), 72-76,362-6 

Action, d<!sireful, (pravrtta), 
484, 497. 

desireless, (nivrtta), 
484, 497. 

Action, ev.il, 373. 

Action, abandonment of, {Icar- 
mi-sanmydsu), 416, 417. 

Action, abandonment of, 
{karmu-tydga), 441-44. 
dt:i)recated, 153-55. 
rdjasa, 442. 
sdttvika, 443. 
tdmasa, 441. 

Action, abandonment of, [niv- 
rtti), 497. 

Action, course of, {karrna-pra- 
vdha) 369, 373. 

Action, dedicated to Brahman, 
(brahmdrp(ina-purvalca-kar- 
ma), 603. 

Action, organs of, activity of, 
{karme >idriya-vyupara),178, 
184, 185, 


•yajna, (Sacrifice), 404, (ii) 661, 
yoga. 76-79. 

yoga, (in the Gita), 79, 420, 455, 
474, 489-90, (ii) 627, 630. 
yoyahlirasta, (Fallen from 
Yoga), 392. 
yogavidhi, 160. 
yogasdstra, 82, (ii) 665. 


■ENGLISH. 

Action, suffering for, 376. 

Activity, (cetanU ), 194. 

AdhyStma, (See Metaphysical; 
and ddhyatmika etc. in 
Part I). 

Adhyavasaya or VyavasSya 
182. 

Amrta, (Food), 403. 

Amrta, (Eternal Brahman),501. 

Ancestral path, ( pitrydya ) 
408-11; 413-4. 

Anubhavadvaita, 508. 

Ascetic isammjas 'm}, 420, 421. 

Ascetic, (perpetual), {nitya- 
mimiyasin), 485-6, 

Austerity (or penance), {tapaii), 
353, 404. 

Atomic theory, 204-206. 

Beatific, {anandamaya), 317. 

Beatific envelope {anandamaya- 
kosa), 361. 

Beatitude, (u/ 2 a«da), 317. 

Beginning, of, unknown 
(anadi), 365. 

Belief, in credible persons, 
(dptavacana-pramdn'i ), 570. 



100 


GiTA-RAHASYA OR KARMA-YOGA 


Benefit, {samgrafui), 457. 
Bhagavata, 475. 

Bhagavata doctrine, 14, 473 
489, 509, (ii) 700, 766, 770. 
Bhakti,572. (ii) 744. 
Bhakti-marga, 89; 57 6-8; 595, 
(ii) 648-50; 744. 

Bliasya, (commentary), 9, 16. 
Birth and Death, Cycle of, 
(mihsura), 367. 

Birth-relea^d. (jivanmukta), 

415. 

BlesaedncBS, (bhnga). 161, 162. 
Body, (ksetra), 195. 

Body, subtle, iliuga or snktfma), 
361. 

Body, {piriia). lOf’. 313. 

Bcyidage of Karma, 395-400. 
Book, ascertaining summary 
of. 30. 

Bo<.>k, examination of, (grant,ha- 
pdrik^na), 9. 

Brahman, 308,338,501,502,504. 
Brahman, dedication to, 153. 
Brahnjan, —devoted, (brahnui- 
nistha), 315. 

Brahma-sutras, 16. 

Brahman -tree 243-245. 

Brahman-world, (hrahma-sriiti). 

359. 

BrahmStmaikya state, 320. 
Brahml state, 213, 344, 414,515. 
Brahmanirvana-moksa, 343, 
(ii) 657, 689. 

Canons of Gita Religion, 154-55, 
Carvaka's Ethics 105-107. 
('aiise, fundamental, (sum- 
Ohuti), 501. 


Causality, ^karma-vipaka), 366- 

Cohesion, (dhrli), 195. 

Collection, (samghUfa), 197-198, 

Colour, subtle element of, 

( rupa-tanmatra ), 240. 

Commencement, of a book, 
(upakrarna), 30, (ii) 656. 

Commencement of Gita,. 
(pruranibha), (ii) 656. 

Commencement, Theory of, 

( dninibha-vuda ), 204-5 ; 

331. 

Commenced Action, (prarabdha,. 
or arabdha-karya), 374-377, 
601. 

Commentary, (5/id«ya), 9, 16. 

Concessions, moral, ( apud- 
dhirma). 67. 

Conclusion, of a book, ( upa- 
samhnro), 30, (ii) 656. 

Conduct, code of, ( acdra- 
satngraha), (ii) 665. 

Conduct, good, ( saducarana ), 
89. 

Conduct, proper, ( sistacdra ), 
94. 

Confusion, (moha), 301, 327, 

Conscience, (sadasadviveka- 
huddhi, or manodeixita, 168, 

Consciousness, 194, 335. 

Consciousness, 183. 

Constitutents, equal state of, 
(Iriguna-sainijavasthu, 213. 

Constituents, three, beyond the, 
(trigunulita j, 226-7, 344, 
519, (ii) 652, 690. 

Constituents, development of. 
(gunotkarsa or gmja- 
jKirimma), 234, 331. 








INDEX OF DEFINITIONS 


101 


^Contact, w'ith external world, 
(m'dlraspars(i), 135. 

■ContentedneBS, ftustij, 159. 

■Conviction, unsettlinK the, 
{biiddldbheda), 458. 

Cosmic Tree, (Jmihirui-VTkin), 
243-52. 

Cosmos, (brahmanda J, 313, 
(ii) 651. 

Credible per,^'ons, belief in, 
(dptai acnna-prant > i na) ,570, 

Criticism, (ftlol), 9,16. 

DSgoba, (dhdtu-garlihaj, (ii)789. 

Daily action, (niti/d-kurma), 74. 

Dark path, fkTSva-mnrjaJ, 409. 

Death’s death, 321, (ii) 807. 

Dedication to Brahman, 
(brahindr/iana), 153. 

Dedication to Krsna, 
((IcTifii urpdpaj ,153. 

Deities, sphere of, (amrta), 503, 
504. 

Delusion, iinoha). See Confusion. 

Desire, (e.yina), 433, 444. 

Desire, freedom of. (vUsanii- 
•soatuihtri/a, or icchiu'ivu- 
tamtrua) , 371. 

Desire, (kdirui), 151, 452. 

Desire, (mnuju), 151. 

Desire, (tryiU), 134. 

Desire, (vusana), 186. 

Desire, pure, (siiddha-vdmnd), 

515. 

Desire, to know flight Action, 
40, .70. 

Desired,, (/jre?/uA 126, 158-159. 

Desiroful Action, (prarrtta 
karijit), 484, 497. 

Desireless Action, (nivrtJa 
karnut), 484, 497. 


Desireless activity, nature of, 
(tuiiskarimja-laktjanaJ, 473. 

Desire-prompted, (klimya), 74, 
484. 

Desiring Reason, (vusamtmaka 
buddhi). 186, 187, 528, (ii) 630. 

Destiny, (daiva), 370, 452. 

Development, of an argument, 
(upapalti, or upapUdunaJ, 
32, (ii) 656. 

Development, of Constituents 
( see (iiinotkartia, and Con- 
stituentsA 

Devotion, { uplsinu or bhukh ), 

572. 

Devotion, (bluikl' ), 572, (ii) 744. 

Devotion, I'ntli of, ( bhakli- 
morya), 89,576, 577, 5J8, 
595, (ii) 648, 649, 650. 744. 

Devotion, Yoga of, (bluikti- 
yoyu), (ii) 640. 

Dhartna, (Buddhist), 800-803. 

Dhanna, (deity), 170. 

Dharma, Exposition of, 
( dlianna-pravacdnu), 89. 

Dliarma, (four-class-arrange¬ 
ment ), 89. 

Dharma, (general meaning), 
93. 

Dharma, householder’s, (Bud¬ 
dhist ), (ii) 808. 

Dharma, (Jain) (ii) 817. 

Dharma, (Jewish), (ii) 822. 

Dharma, (maintenance), 90- 
91. 

Dharma, (next-world), 88. 

Dharma, ( prUkH ), 93. 

Dharma, (social meaning), 
90-91. 



103 


GITA-RAHASYA OK KARMA-YOGA 


Dharraa, (Upanisadic), (ii) 817. 

Dharma, (various meanings), 
(ii) 657, 707. 

Ding an sich, (Thing-in-itself), 
( vastutatva), 297, 301, 311. 

Dharmadharma, (Right and 
Wrong), determination of 
96-101. 

Discrimination, (adhyavasaya), 
182. 

Discrimination in conduct, 
ucuratartarnya ), 64-5. 

Diversity, (nanatva), 214. 

Divine dispensation, path of, 
(pu^ti-marga), 34,159-161. 

Divine Illusion, ( daivl rnayd ), 
329. 

Divine Power, ( Uvurl-sakti ), 
364. 

Doable and Not-Doable, 

determination of, 87-91. 
in the Gita, (ii) 719. 

Doubt, as to duty, 33 to 39. 

Doubt, whether to act or not, 
38-41. 

Dual-lJon-D u a 1 i s in, (dvaitd- 
dvaita ), 25. 

Duty, doubt as to, 33 to 39. 

Duty, gift which is a (dutavya) 
548. 

Duty, f kartavya-karma J, 88. 

Effect, (phata), 31, (ii) 656. 

Egoism, (ahamkdra-buddhi},l^l. 

Eightfold, (astadha), 347, 348. 

Ekantika-doctrine, 13. 

Elements, Primordial, or -dsem, 

( nmhdbhuta), 343, 349, 250. 

Embodied Self, (sarira atman), 
340. 


Endless, ( avanta ), 340. 

Endowment, ungodly, (dsiirl- 
sampat), 148. 

Enlightened Self-interest, 
( udatta-svdrtha J, 113-115. 

Envelope, 

Beatific- 361. 

Food- 361. 

Knowledge-, 361. 

Mental-, 361. 

Equable Reason, (sama-buddhi) 
342. 

Equable Reason, Yoga of, 
/ huddhi-yoga), 530, 531. 

Equality (or Equability), 
{sarnatd), 548, (ii) 673, 
{samya), (ii) 673, 

Esin sect, (ii) 824. 

Ethics, (see Dharma). 

Ethics, (niti), 68, 88. 

Ethics, Carvaka’s, 105-7. 

Ethics, Intuitionistic deter¬ 
mination of, (adhidaivika 
mdrga), 538. 

Ethics, Metaphysical deter¬ 
mination of, [adhyatmika- 
marga), 529, 

Ethics, Materialistic, deter¬ 
mination of, (ddhihhautika- 
mUrga), 528. 

Ethics. Science of, {niti-sdstra), 

68 . 

Evil action, (asubha-karma), 
373. 

Evil Reason, (tamasi-buddhi),. 
189. 

Evolute, (vikrti), 345. 

Evolution, Theory of, 309, 333» 

Examination, internal, (anta- 
ranga-^pariksaya), 9. 




INDEX OF DEFINITIONS 


Examination, external, (baki- 
rariga-pariksarui), 9. 

Existing, (or Real), (sat), 315, 
337-339, 347. 

External world, (matra), 135. 

Faith, (sraddhu), 594. 

Field, (ks<‘lra). 195. 

Final State, (nisthu), 435, 436, 
(ii) 640. 

Fine elements, (tanma,tra), 239. 

Fire, bodily, ( kdyuijni ), 184-5. 

Food-envelope.', (anriainaya- 
kosa !, 361. 

I’ood, (after sacrifice), {amrta), 
403. 

Food, (after eating), (rngkas), 
403. 

Forgivenes.s, (ksamu), 44-45. 

ITorm of Livara, inferior, (apa- 
rasvarupa), 247. 

Four-class -arrangement, (catur' 
vanjl/a-dkarma), 89. 

Four-class-arriingeraent, (var- 
nuiraina-dkarma, (ii) 718. 

Freedom of Desire, (kckdsuH- 
tamtrya, or vasand-svutam- 
trijn), 371. 

Freedom of Will, (pravrlti- 
sviltaTidrija), 371, 3S8. 

Fruit, Hope of, (phaldsd), 151, 
452. 

„ Abandonment of, (phala- 
ka-tydija), 603. 

Fundamental Cause, (safn- 
bhuti), 501. 

B’undarnent.al Prakrti, (mula- 
prakrti), 245. 

Fundamental Substance, {amT~ 
ta), 30 11 . 


103 


Genesis, fourfold, (caturvyuha), 

(ii) 757-758. 
„ three-fold, (trivyuha), 

(ii) 758. 

„ two-fold, (dvivyului), 

(ii) 758. 

,. one-fold, (ekavyuha), 

(ii) 758. 

Gift, which is duty, (ddtavya),. 
548. 

Gita, meaning of, i. 

Gita, Karma-yoga in the,. 
422-423. 

Gita, summary of, 12 to 16. 
Gita, (Srarti), (ii) 751, 752, 754,. 
(ii) 783. 

Glta-Religion, lour canons of,. 
155. 

Goal, fgati), 410. 

Godly path, (devayana), 408, 
409, 410, 411, 413, 414. 
Good conduct, (sadacararta), 89. 
Gradual Release, (krama- 
mukli), 412. 

Greatest good of greatest 
number, (sarva-)>huta-hila), 
115, 116, 524, 521, 529, 
534, 535, 536, 542, 543, 
563, 564, (ii) 675, 678, 687, 
(ii) 688. 

Gross, ( sthula), 215. 

Gross Non-Dualism, {jada~ 
dvaita), 219. 

Guiiaparinama, 234, 331. 
Gunotkarsa, 234, 331. 

Happiness and Unhappiness, 
( sukha-duhkha), 130. 

(Intuitionist), 130. 
(Materialistic), 130. 
(Metaphysical), 131. 







104 


GITA-RAHASYA OR KARMA-YOGA 


Happiness, Materialistic 
theory of, (adhibhautika 
sukhavdda), 103, 104. 

Harmlessnoss, ( ahinisu- 
dharma ), 42, 43. 

Highest good, (pantmdrtha), 
564. 

Hlnayana, (ii) 8l5. 

Hope of Fruit, (phaldsa or 
sangaj, 151, 452. 

Hope of Frtiit, abandonment 
of, ( phaldsa-tyUga}, 603. 

Humanness, 124. 

Humanity, religion of, (ii) 708. 

Ignorance, (ajnana), 301,327, 
(ii) 742. 

Ignorance, ( asamhhiUi ), 501. 

Igjioranco, (aoidya), 289, 
(ii) 742. 

Ignorance, (inohaj, 301, 327. 

Ignorance, ( laims ), 213. 

Illusion, Divine, (daivi rnaya ), 
329. 

Illusory, (rnithyU), 298. 

Immortal Brahman (amiasi 
brahma=aniTta ), 501. 

Immortality, (amrtoLva), 
(ii) 682, 693. 

Imperceptible, (avyakta), 193, 
215. 

Immutable, ( aksaraj, 193. 

Inactivity, path of, (nivrtli- 
Jtidrga), 19. 

Independence of Atman (see 
self-independence). 

Indira, (i) xxxvii, (ii) 1210. 

Individuation, ( ahamkdra ), 
197-9; 236-7; 243, 246, 
249. 


Individuation, ( aniruddha ), 
266. 

Individuation, ( prtliaktva), 236. 

Inference, (awM/adna), 568. 

Inferior form, (aparasoarupaj, 
247. 

Inferior, path, (hhiayana ) 
(ii) 815. 

Inspiration, ( codana), 94-5. 

Inspired Morality, 94-5. 

Internal Examination, (anta- 
ranga-parikHana ), 9, 10. 

Intuitional Pain and Happi¬ 
ness, ( Udhidaivika sukha- 
ththkha), 130. 

Intuitionist determination of 
Ethics, 528. 

Intuitionist School, 84, 85, 167 
to 176, (ii) 686. 

Intuitionistic (or theological) 
consideration, ( udhidaivika 
vivecana), 85. 

Invisible, {adrsta), 374. 

Invisible, ( anrta ), 336, 337. 

Jaya, 3,42, (ii) 738. Jnana, 275, 
380-3. 

Jna, 219. 

Jnana, 275, 380-3. 

Jnana--Bhakti-yukta-Karma- 
Yoga, (ii) 664. 

Jnsna-Kanda, 401, 

Jnana-nistha, 20, 470, 577, 

(ii) 640. 

JnSna-vijnana, 431, (ii) 649-51. 

Jfianendriya, (Organs of 
Perception), 178-9, 186. 

Jnanin, (sage), 408, 414, 

Kapila-SSmkhya. 205, 209, 215. 


INDEX OF DEFINITIONS 


105 


Xarrna, ( Action ), 72-76, 

362-66. 

Xarma, iuvidyUj, 501, 502, 503, 
504, 505. 

Xanna, 

(hrahinurpaiia-puri aka), 603. 

( hrmUrpa na-purrahi), 604. 

Xarnia, uncomraenced, 375 -77. 

Karma, liondage of, 3115- 400. 

Karma, commenced, {pril- 

rahdhaj, 374-377, 601. 

Karma, course of, llatnna- 
pravlhiij, 369, 363. 

Karma, iestriiction, of 395- 
400. 

Karma, FaLu-anika, 74. 

Karma, release from, (kurtm- 
inukti,), 378. 

Karma, iuiftoring for, (karma- 
bhoga), d7G. 

Karma-Yoga, (or Yoga, or 
Karin a-nistha), 420, (ii) 640, 

Karma-Yoga, 80, 148, 417, 418, 
420, 497, 512, 562, 607, 
(ii) 627. 638, 639, 655, 
(ii) 660, 664, 665, 700, 704, 
(ii) 747. 

Karma-Yoga (in the Gita), 
422-423. 

Karma-Yoga, with Knowledge ' 
and Devotion, (ii) 664. 

Karma-Yoga, Vedic, 489. 

Karma-Yoga-Sastra, 71, 83, 

(ii) 665. 

King, 

of Mysteries, 581-3, 591, 
(ii) 646, 648. 

of sciences, 581-3, 591, 

(ii) 646, 648. 


Knower, (jna), 219. 

Knowledge-en^'olope (jTiUm- 

maya-kosa ), 361. 

Knowledge, Path of, (jninm- 
rnurga), 576-596, (ii) 649. 

■ Knowledge, Path of, ( jtWnn- 
\ ni^m), 20, 420, 577, 

(ii) 640. 

j Knowledge, Perfect state of, 
I (jiiuna-pYirnavasthu), 320. 

I Knowledge, !cU), 315, 

Knowledge, (p:ana), 275, 380-3. 
I Knowledge, Spiritual and 
I Empirical, (jnana-vijnunaj 

' 431, (ii) 649, 650. 

I Knowledge, true, 295, 342. 

I Knowledge-Action, Combina¬ 
tion of, ljTiana-kar)na- 
saniuccanaj, 428, 603. 

Ksetra, (Body ), 195, 

Ksetrajfla, (Atman), 199. 

Lighted Path, (hikla-marga), 
409. 

Lihga-body, 361. 

Love (or. Desire), (r'dguj, 454. 

Mahabharata, 41, (ii) 7^7. 

MahaySna, (ii) 815. 

Manhood, fourfold ideal of, {ca- 
tuniirlha-pn rtitiurfha), 88. 

Manhood, objects of, fpurus- 
drtha), 72, 88. 

ManifoldneB.s, (prthaktva), 236- 

Materialistic Consideration, 
(adhi-hhatitika-mvecana), 84, 

Materialistic determination of 
Ethics, 528. 

Materialistic Pain and Happi¬ 
ness {ddhibhautiha sukha- 
duhkha), 130, 




106 


GiTA-RAHASYA OR KARMA-YOGa 


Materialistic School, (adhibhau- 
tika-pantha), 84, (ii) 686. 

Materialistic Theory of Happi¬ 
ness, 104. 

Matrasparsa, 136. 

Maya, 217, 288, 301, 307, 362, 
363, 364, (ii) 742. 

Maya, divine, 329. 

Maya, {Icarma), 362-366. 

Mayic world, {jndyd-srfiti), 359. 

Measure for rnea.sure, (retalia¬ 
tion), 550, 556, 562. 

Memorial {dhUtu), 89. 

Mental deity, (or Conscience), 
{mano-deiata), 168. 

Mental-envelope, ( manomaya- 
kosa), 361. 

Meritorious, (sreya), 126, 158- 
160. 

Metaphysical, (adhydima), 85. 

Metaphysical Consideration, 
(adhydtmika-vivecana), 85. 

Metaphysical determination of 
Ethics, 529. 

Metaphysical Pain and Happi¬ 
ness, (adhydtmika sukha- 
duhkhal 131. 

Metaphysical School, {adhyat- 
mika-pantha), (ii) 686. 

Metaphysical School, {adhyat- 
mika-pakm), 85. 

Mimarhsa-Sutras, 401. 

Mimamsaka path, {mimaihsalca- 
mdrga), 401. 

Mind (manas), 178-9 ; 180-6. 

Mind, (developing), {mjdkara- 
ndtmaka-manas), 182-5, 

Mind-sanctioned {rnanah~puta), 
171. 


Moral Concessions, {apaddhar- 
ma), 67. 

Morality, (see Dharma), 

Morality and Immorality,, 
90-91. 

Mortal world, (mrtyu), 501. 

Movement, {cetand), 194. 

Mutable, (kmra), 193. 

Mystery, or Mysticism, King 
of, (raja-guhya), 581-3, 591,. 
(ii) 646, 648. 

Naiskarmya- s i d d h i, 378, 
(ii) 779. 

Name and Form, {nania-rupaj, 
296. 

Narayanlya doctrine, 473, 
(ii) 766, 770. 

Nasadlya-Sukta, 347. 

Newness, (apurvatd), 31. 

Nirvana, (ii) 807. 

Nirvana, state of, 319. 

Nirvana, tranquility of, 159. 

Nistha, (Final State), 435, 436, 
(ii) 640. 

Nityamuktavastha, 345. 

Non-Dualism, (advaitavada), 19, 

20 , 21 , 

Non-Dualism, ( Gross ), (jadd~ 
dvaita), 219. 

Non-Dualism, pure, (suddha- 
dvaita), 2i. 

Non-enmity, (nirmtra), 547- 
553. 

Non-stealing, (asteyaj, 54. 

Not-Doable, (see Doable), 

Obiter dicta, (arthavdda), 31, 
32, (ii) 657. 

Occasional Action, (naimittika- 
karma), 74. 




INDEX OP DEFINITIONS 


10^ 


OM-TA.T-SAT, 338 

Optimists, (asavadi), (ii) 695. 

Organ, (indriya), 238. 

Organs of Action, activities of, 
( karmendriya - Di/dp dr a). 
178, 184-185. 

Organs of Perception, activi¬ 
ties of, (jnunedriyu-vyd~ 
para,, 178-9, 186. 

Other’s-interest, (parurfha), 
ll4Hi, 563. 

Own-dutj, (svadharrna),(ii)6^7. 

Pain, (du%kha). 130. 

Pain and Happiness, (sukha- 
duhkna), 

Material, 130. 

Metaphysical, 131. 

Intuitional, 130. 

Panoaratra doctrine, 473, 509, 
(ii) 766, 770. 

Pancikamna, 254-255. 

Pararnatnian, 274. 

Paramesvara, inferior form of, 
(aparasvarupa), 247. 

Paramesvara, superior form of, 
(paru prakrtij, 247. 

Pasupata sect, (ii) 817. 

Patanjala-Yoga, (ii) 799. 

Path, (srti), 410. 

Path of Acti<3n, (see Karma- 
yoga ). 

Path of Action, with Devotion 
and Knowledge, (ii) 664. 

Path of Devotion, 89, 576-8, 
595, (li) 648-50 ; 744. 

Path of Knowledge, 20, 420, 
576, 577, (ii) 640, 649. 

Peace, (or Tranquility), (sUnti), 
159-60. 


Penance, (or austerities),! 
(tapas), 353, 404, 

Perceptible, ( vijakta ), 193, 215. 

Perception, Organs of, activi¬ 
ties of, (jndnendriya- 
vydpdra), 178-9,186. 

Perfect, (arhat), (ii) 675. 

Perishable, (drtant), 307. 

Perpetual Ascetic, (nitya- 
savLuydnin), 485-6. 

Personal Self,(jt?;a ovjwdtrmn) . 
247.289, 368. 

Pessimists, ( nirdsavddi), 
(ii) 695. 

Placid Reason, (sdttviki bud- 
dht), 189. 

Practical Morality, (vyavahd- 
rika dharma), 93. 

Practical Reason, fodsandtrnikd 
buddhi). 186, 187, 528, 
(ii) 630, 683. 

Pradyumna, (ii) 756. 

Prakrti, 213-16, 248, 363-4. 

Prakrti, Eightfold, (astadhd), 
247-8. 

Prakrti, ( inula ), 245. 

Prakrti, (para J, 247. 

Prakrti, (sattva), 213-6, 363-4. 

Prakrti, (rajan), 213-6, 363-4. 

Prakrti, (lamas), 213-6, 363-4. 

Prakrti, (three-constituented),, 
363. 

Prakrti-vikrti, 245. 

Prasthanatrayi, 17. 

Primordial Elements, ( rnahd- 
bhuta-B), 242, 249, 250. 

Prohibited Action, (nidddha- 
karma), 74. 

Proper Conduct, (sisiacdra), 94.. 



108 


GlTA-RAHASYA OR KARMA-YOGA 


Pure Desire, (suddha-vasanai, 
515. 

Pure Non-Dualism, 24. 

Pure Reason, fi'yarasayritmikn 
huddhij, 186, (ii)683. 

Purusottama, 274. 

Purva-Mlmamsa, 401. 

Pusti, 24, 159-161. 

Pusti-marga, 24. 

Qualification* (adhikUru), 464. 

Qualified Monism, ( msis/,u- 
dvaita ), 21 to 23. 

Quality, (guna), 278, 330. 

Qualities, development of, 
{gui}aparii,idmavada), 234. 
331. 

Qualities, development of, 
(gicvolkartja), 234, 331. 

Qualityless, (nirguna), 330, 

Qualityloss Parabrahman, 331. 

Qualityless, worship of the, 
(nirgum-bhakti), 227. 

Rajas, etc., (see rajas, etc., in 
Pa*"! I). 

Real, (or Existing), {sal), 315, 
337-9, 347. 

Reality, (satya), 45, 297-99, 
307-8. 

.Reason, (buddkij. 

Active, (rajasa), 189. 
Equable, {sama), 342, 
Equable, Yoga of, 
(buddhi-yoga), 531. 
Evil, (tdmasa), 189. 
functions of, 186-190. 
kinds of, 236. 

Placid, (adttmki), 189. 


Reason—( ccpifd .). 

Practical, (vdsandt- 
mika), 186 to 188, 
(ii) 683. 

Pure, 186, (ii) 683. 

Reason, (ii) 672, 679,683. 

Release, (amrla), 503, 506. 

Release, {brahma-nirvdm), 343, 
(ii) 657, 689. 

Release, (samkhya), 223. 

Release, gradual, {krama-mukti) 
412. 

Release, Science of, (moksa- 
dhnrma), 89. 

Release, by abstinence from 
Karma, (karmarnukti, or 
naiskarmya-dddhi), 378. 

Released, (mukta), 224. 

Releasod-in-life, (jivanrnukta), 
415, (ii) 640. 

Released-in-life state, {jivan- 
mulduvasthd), 463. 

Renu nciation, fsa fnnydsa), 

420-22, 454-5, (ii) 607; 
(ii) 626-7, 638, 653-4, 704. 

Repetition, (abhydsa), 30, 
(ii) 656. 

Retaliation, (measure for 
measure), 550, 556, 562. 

Right Action, desire to know, 
(karma jijildsd), 40, 70. 

Right and Wrong, determina¬ 
tion of, 96-101. 

Ritualist, {karmatha), 408, 

Rk-chanda, (ii) 726. 

Sacrifice, 72, 404, (ii) 661. 

Sacrifice-remnant, {amrla), 403. 

Sacrifice-remnant-eater, {amrt- 
usi), 535. 



INDEX OF DEFINITIONS 


109 


Sage, ibuddha), 224, 5'22, 
Samkalpa, 181. 

Saiva, 474. 475. 

Sarhkhya, 207, 420, 489, 506, 
(ii) 627, 631, 640, 641, 655, 
(iij 661-2. 

Saihkhya-nistha, (ii) 640. 

Santi, (See Tranquility). 
Sarlrika-Sutras, 16. 
Satkary&vada, 210-11, 326,335. 
Satvata-dharma, 137, 473., 

509, (ii) 766, 770. 

School, 

Intuitional, 84, (ii) 686. 
167 -176. 

Materialistic, 84, (ii) 686. 
Metuphysical,84,85,(ii)686. 
Science, \ saslra), 100. 

Sciences, king of, (raja-vidyu), 
581-3, 591, (ii) 646, 648. 
Self, {atrm), 558. 

Self, Emoodied, 340. 

Self, independent tendency of, 
385. 

Self, Persona I, (jivatman), 368. 
Self, Personal, ijlva), 247, 289. 
Self-defence, (atma-samrakmnd), 
56, 57. 

Self-devoted Reason, ( cUma- 
nistha-buddhij, 191. 
Self-devotion, (or devotion to 
the Atman), (dtrna-^istlia), 
342, 386, (ii) 807. 

Self-enlightened, ( h u d d ha), 
224, 522. 

Self -independence ( d I rn a - 
avatamtrua), 385, 
Self-interest, enlightened, 113-5 
Self-knov^ledge, 386, 


Selfishness, 105-115. 

(Carvaka), 105-7. 
(long-sighted. 109-11,) 

(enlightned), 112-115. 

Senses, (indriya ), 238. 

Senses, (prana ), 242. 

Siddhavastha, 345. 

Smarta, 471, 474-6. 

Smarta Action, 73. 

Smarta-Yajna, 73. 

Smell, subtle elenwmt, 240, 

Solitudinal (akUntika), 13. 

Sphere of Deities, 503-4. 

Spirit, (puru:ia), 219. 

Spiritual and Empirical Know¬ 
ledge jndna vijndna), 

421, (ii) 649, 656. 

Steady,-in-Reason, (sthita- 
prajfla), 519, (ii) 652. 

S t e a d y-i n- R e a s 0 n, (siitha- 
prajna), 

Karma-yogin, 521. 
Sarhnyasin, 521. 

Strange, (apiirva), 374. 

Sublime verities (urya satya)' 
(ii) 806, 

Substance, Fundamental. 
{amrtd), 306. 

Subtle, (suksina), 215. 

Subtle Body, 361. 

Suffering, for Karma, 376. 

Superintendence 198. 

Symbol, (pratlka), 274, 584, 
586. 

Tanias, 213. 

TamasI Reason, 189. 

Tanmatras, (Fine Elements)>• 
239. 

Tapa, 353. 



110 


GITA-RAHASYA. OR KARMA-YOGA 


' Tat-Tvam-Aei, 20-31. 

THAT, (tat), 338. 

Theistic logician, 205. 

Theological, (or Intuitionistic) i 
Consideration, (udhi- 
daitrilcti-vivecana ), 84, 85, 

Thing-in-Itself, (ding an j 
sich), ( vastu-tatm ), 297, 
301, 311. 

Third Path, 412. 

Thirst (or Daeire), (trsna), 134. 

THOU-ART that, 20-21. 


Ungodly endowment (d.sart- 
sainpat ) 148. 

Unhappiness, (duhklui), 130. 

Union of three {trivrtkarand), 
253. 

Union of five, (panelkararia), 
254-5. 

Universal Welfare, {lakasfm- 
graha), 456-458, 463, 502, 
562. 

Universal welfare, {sarvabhula- 
115-7. 


Thought-formed, (cidrUpi), 335, | Unknown, beginning of,(a-«.t7dj). 
Three-constituents, equal state j 365. 

of, (Inguxm-samijamstha), Unreal, (a.vaO, 210,337. 

213. Uttara-Mimamsa, 401. 

Three-Constituented, (tngma- vaisnava sect, 23, 24, 475 . 

fr/zatei^ Prakrti, 363. Vastu-tatva, fThing-in-ItselfA 

Time, (/ca/a), 410. 

To act or not to act, (Icartwm- Vasu'deva Paramatmi, 286. 

mu(llni) 38-41 ^ Vedantin, 401. 

To-be-suffered, {knijamum), (Karma-Yogin), 489. 

I (Samnyasin), 489, 

Touch, subtle element of, 240. • Karma-Yoga. 489. 

Taste, ^ ^ do do i Vedic Religion, (ii) 817. 

Tranquility, (or peace), isardi), Ygj.jt|Qg^ sublime, (arya-satya). 
159-160. /.n ons 


381, 501- 


Tray T-dharraa, 401. 
Trayi-vidya, 401. 
Tridanda, 485, 
Trigunatita, 226-7, 344, 
(ii) 652, 690. 
Trigunatltavastha, 228. 


Videha-mukti, 412. 
VidyS, (Science), 283, 
6, 583. 

Vidya (updsana), 503. 
Vighas, 403. 


Trivrtkarana, 253. 


Vikalpa, 181. 


Trivyuha (ii) 758. I Visesa, (Primordial Elements), 

True Knowledge, 295, 342. | 242,249, 250. 

Turlyavastha, 320. j vision, difference of (buddhi- 

lUncommenced Karma, (and- ^ bheda), (ii) 658. 
m6ri/i«/v-dr!/a).375,376.377. ' Visistadvaita. 21-23. 



INDEX OP DEFINITIONS 


111 


Vital force, (prana), »42. 
Vivarta^ ada, 331, 333, 356. 
Vows, observance of, (pratijilar 
palana), 52, 53. 

Vyavasaya, 182. 

What is in the Body, is in the 
CosnioB, 313. 

Will, freedom of, ( pravrlti- 
svata nUri/a), 371. 388. 


Wise, (buddha), 224, 522. 

World, external, ( rndtra), 135. 
World, contact with the 
external, 135. 

Worship, (up(lsand=mdya), 503. 

j Yoga, ( see tjocja, yoga-bhrasta, 
yoga-vidhi, yoga-sastra. 

1 karma-yoga, in part I.) 
Yajna, (sacrifice), 404, (ii) 661. 




SOME GENERAL INFORMATION ABOUT HINDU 
RELIGIOUS TREATISES. 

(N B .;—^This note was not written by the author, hut was 
first included in the 1923 edition of the Marathi text, which was 
published after the death of the author in 1920.—’Trans.). 

Among the treatises, on which the Hindu Religion is based, 
the Vedas are the most superior and the most ancient, from 
the point of view of importance and chronology; and the 
Saihhitas, the Brahmanas, and the Upanisads are included 
in them. The Karma-Kanda, consisting of Yajnas and Yagas 
(religious sacrifices), and the Jnana-Kanda, consisting of 
Metaphysical conceptions, both spring from this triad.. 
Nevertheless, the Upanisadic treatises form the basis of 
the Jnana-Kanda. The social relations, included in the Hindu; 
religion, are regulated according to the Smrti texts; but these 
are based on the Grhya-Sdtras. There are many Sutra-treatises 
besides the Grhya-Sutras; but they have nothing to do with 
Ethics; and deal only with the various Metaphysical specu¬ 
lations started in order to solve the Riddle of the Universe^ 
These Metaphysical speculations, are called tha Sad-Darsanas.. 
The Nyaya-Sutras of Gautama, the Vaisesika-Sutras, the Purva- 
Mlmarhsa-Sutras of Jaimini, the Vedanta-Sutras or the Brahma- 
Sutras of Badarayana, the Yoga-Sutras of Patanjali etc., are 
included in the Sad-Darsanas. But there are many Sutra- 
treatises, besides the Sad-Dax-sanas; and the Panini-Svxtras, 
the Sandilya-Sutras, the Narada-Sutras etc,, are included 
among them. The Puraiias came into existence, when the 
ancient* Vedic religion, which did not contain idol-worship, 
and which was purely Metaphysical in its aspect, was changed, 
and the worshipping of deities came into vogue. The 
Mahabharata and the Ramayana are not Puranas, but are 
historical treatises. The various Gitas are included in the 
Puranas. This subject-matter has been discussed in the Glta- 
Rahasya as occasion arose; but this information has been 
given below in the form of a list, in order that readers should 
have complete information about them collected in one place .— 

(1) THE VEDAS AND THE SRUTI TREATISES;— 

The Saihhitas (i. e., the collection of I Karma-Kanda 
Reas or Mantras).> or 

The Brahmanas (Aranyakas) ... J Yajna-Kanda 

The Upanisads ... ... {JnSna-Kanda). 



HINDU KELIGIOUS TREATISES 


113 


(,■’) SASTRAS'— 

(1) Scji-iptures: Grhya-Sutras, Sinrti treatises ( Maiiu^ 
Yajaavalkya, and Harita. ) 

(«) Sutras; ( Hatl-Darsanas ), Jaiinini-, (Mimaihsa-or 
Purva-Mimam.sa); Brahma", ( Vedanta-, 
Saririka-, or Uttara-Mimamsa ) :; Nyaya-, 
(dautaina); Yoga-, (Patanjala), Samkhya-, 
Vaisesika-, (Sariikhya-Karika). 

(3) OTHER SUTRAS.— 

Vyakarana-Sutras (Paivini); Treatises relating to the 
Jr’ath of Devotion ( Narada, Sandilya ). 

(4) HI STOR Y r— 

Riniayuua, Mahabharata, (Ilarivaihsa ). 

(5) PtlRANAS:— 

Mahapuraniis, Upa.pnrauas, and Gitas. 

These iiidudo 18 Mahapurapas, 18 Upapuranas, and 
and the various Gitas. 


The different Veda-,Sinrti-, and J’urana-trfatises, referred 
to in the Gita-Rahasya are mentioned in the following list:— 


Atharva. 

VEDAS:— 

Rg-Veda. 

Taittiiriya. 

SAM HIT AS 

Vajasaneyl. 

M mu. 


SCita. 

Arseya, 

BRAHMANAS;—■ 
Kuiisika. 

Kausitaki. 

Aitariya,' 

Taittirlya. 

Sataiiatha. 

Amrtahindu. 

I PAN ISADS 
Ohandogya. 

Mahauarayana. 

Isa (Isavasya). 

Churika. 

Mandnkya. 

Aitareya. 

,J al)ala-Saih ny asa. 

Mundaka (Manda) 

Katha. 

Taittiriya. 

Maitri (Maitrayani), 

Kena. 

Dhyana-hiiulu. 

Yogataii. 

Kaivalya. 

Nara.yauiya. 

Ramajiurva (lapini) 

Kansitaki 

Nrsiirihottara- 

Vajrasuoi. 

(Kau. Brahmana). 

tapaniya. 

Svetas vatara. 

Garbha, 

Prasna. 

Sarva. 

Gopalatapam. 

Brhadarapyaka, 




114 


HINDU RHLIGIOUS-TREATISHS 


Manu. 


SMRTIS 

Yajnavalkya. Harlta. 


Apastarhba. 

Asvalayana. 

Grhyasesa. 

Gautama-Nyaya. 

Taittiriya. 

Narada. 

N arada-Paficaratra. 


BUTRAS 


Pan ini. 

Pataii jala-Y oga. 
Baudhayana- 
Dlianna. 

Baudhayana-Grhya, 
Brahma-( Vedanta-, 
Saririka-). 


Mimamsa, 

Vedanta (Brahma-, 
Saririka-). 
Saririka (Brahma-, 
Vedanta-). 
Sandilya, 
Gobhilagrhya. 


KARIKAB 

Saihkhya-Karika, 

VYAKARA NA 
Panini. 

HISTORIES 

Ramayana. Mahabharata (Harivaihsa). 


PORANAS — 


Agni. 

Narada. 

Markandeya, 

Kurma. 

Nmiihha. 

Lihga. 

Ganega. 

Padma. 

Varaha. 

Garuda. 

Brahraanda. 

Vianu. 

Gaudiya-Padmottara. Bhagavata. 

Bkazida. 

Devibhagavata. 

Matsya, 

Harivaihsa. 


GiTAS 


Avadhuta. 

Pihgala. 

VHra. 

Astavakra, 

Brahma. 

Siva. 

Isvara. 

Bodhya. 

Sampaka, 

Uttara. 

Bhiksu. 

Suta. 

Kapila. 

Mahki. 

Bury a. 

Ganesa. 

Yama. 

Hari. 

Devi. 

Rama. 

Haihsa. 

P t ii*asai a. 

Vicikhyu. 

Plarita. 

Pandava, 

Vyasa. 




TTINDU RELIGIOUS TREATISES 


115 


AmitayuHutta, 

Udana. 

Cullavagga 

Taraiiatha. 

Tevijja-sutta. 

(Traivi lya Sutra). 
Theragatha. 
Dasaratlia-jat-aka. 


PALI TEXTS 

Dliiavaihsa, 

Dhammapada, 

Brahinajala-sutta. 

Bralimapa- 

dhamika. 

M ahapari n ibbaiia- 
sutta. 

Mahavaihsa. 


Milinda-Prasna. 

Vatthugatba. 

Saddliarma- 

pundarlka. 

Suttanipata, 

Sela-sutta. 

Sabbasava-sutta. 

Saundarananda. 





GLOSSARY. 

OF 

Important Terminological Expressions. 


abhyasa, repetition; continued 
practice. 
acura. conduct. 

Ucara-samgraha, code of con¬ 
duct. 

adhibhautiJca. Material; Mater¬ 
ialistic. 

adhidaivika, Intuitional. 
adhikara, authority ; qualifica¬ 
tion according to inherent 
natural qualities. 
adhyatma, Metaphysics; the 
Highest Atman. 
udhyUtmilca, Metaphysical; re¬ 
lating to the Absolute 
Self. 

adhyavamya, discriminating 
decision, (see, vyavasdya). 
adrita, Accumulated Action, 
which is invisible (also 
called, apurva). 
advaita, Non-Dual. 
advailamda, Non-Dualism. 
ahafnkara. Individuation; 
Egoism. 

ahirnsd. Harmlessness; Non¬ 
violence. 

ajfiana, Ignorance. 
amria. Release; sphere of dei¬ 
ties ; immortality ; sacri¬ 
fice-remnant food; Funda¬ 
mental Substance; the 
Brahman; 

amTtafm, Immortality. 
gniidi, eternal. 


d n a n d'ft, Beatitude, 

-maya, beatific. 

-rrnya kosa, beatific envelope, 
amntd, endless; eternal. 
andrahd ha, Uncommenced 
(Action). 

aniruddha, Individuation (same 
as, ahankara ), 

annamaya-kosa, fcod-envelope. 
anubhm'ddvaita, combination of 
Knowledge and Action, 
based on Non-dualism: 
this is more or less the 
same as the Desireless 
K a r m a-Y o g a doctrine 
(see p. 508). 

atir/a, invisible, or impercep¬ 
tible, (the opposite of, 
salya, Real). 

(Iplanacana, advice of persons 
in whom one puts faith. 
apurva, { see, adrnta above). 
nrahdlia, Commenced (Action). 
drambha. Commencement. 
drahtbhavdda. Theory of Com¬ 
mencement, (.see, pp. 304, 
205, 331). 

arhat. Perfect being (Buddhis¬ 
tic ), (same as, siddlia ). 
drkim, perishable (same as, 
vindst ). 

arHiavada, statements, which 
are in the nature of obiter 
dicta (see pp. 31-32.) 
aftTinbhUH, ignorance, (same 
as, vinasa , avidyd). 



GLOSSARY 


117 


amt, unreal, (Kam&ms, anr/a). j 
asi, art (thou), (see, tat-fnam-\ 
asi ). 1 

aiitetja , nOU’ steal i n 
asuri, ungodly. 

asan-mwpal, ungodly endow- | 
ment. ; 

nfman, the Self . | 

atim-wdlaihu-fia, Freedom of | 
Will, I 


cntnrvyTihv—( coiitdj 

(isvara) to Samkansana 
(jh’a), to Pradyumna 
(man a a), to Aniruddha 
(Individuation). (.see, 
pp. 756-758. 

celana, vital activity seen in 
living beings (see p. 194). 
cit, or cifta, consciousness. 
cailanija, that thought-power. 


aiidyU, Illusion, (same as, i which is respcmsible for 


Maya). 

avyakla, Iinfierceptible. 

hliakti, devotion. 

hhaktimai ga, the Path of 
Devotio?!, 

hliakti-ijog'i, the Yoga of 
Devotion,, 

hhdfiya, Oomraentary, (see, pika: 
see, p. 16.). 

Brahman, tl e ultimate Essen¬ 
tial Principle, which is 
the Rc'Ot-Gause of the 
Gosmos. 

hrakmarpava, dedication to the 
Brahman, 

tirahma-urksa, tlve Brahman- 
Tree. 

buddha, sage; wise man. 


activity in gross bodies 
(see, p. 194), 
codaml, inspiration. 

1 ddtavya, that which it is 
j a duty to give. 

I daiva. Destiny. 

i daicl, Godly (opposite of amp, 
j ungodly). 

(luirJ-samjiaf, godly endowment, 
ilayd, kindness; pity. 
devatli, deity. 

j demijana, the path along which 
the subtle body of a 
deceased per,son passes, if 
the man has died'at a 
particular time, being 
what is known as the 
‘ lighted path ’ (sulda- 
rnarga), (see pp. 408-410). 


haddhi, Reason; the Mind; 1deity ; morality; 
Desire ’ religion, (see 

references given under 
buddhibheda, do.stroying the ■ dharma' in Index of 

conviction of a person. Definitions, part I). 

Imddhi-uoga, the Yoga of the dliurmddluirma, right and 


Equable Reason, 

c a t u r V ij u h a, the fou r-fold 
scheme ol' the genesis of 
the world, from Vasudeva 


wrong. 

d/irb,that principle of co-hesion 
l)y which all the various 
elements of the Body 
remain steady fsee p. 195), 




118 


GlTA-RAHASYA OR KARMA-YOGA 


duhkha, pain; unhappiness. 
dmita, Duality. 

dvaitddvaita, Dual-non-dualism 
dmtavdda. Dualism. 

ekdntika, solitudinal. 
emnd, desire, (same as, icckd, 
vasana, samga, and kuma), 

gati, goal j path (same as, srfi). 
gita, song. 

coiastituent; strand; 
quality. 

gunaparitiama, the unfolding of 
the constituents of Prakrti. 
gui)atliarm, (same as gmin~ 
paritidma). 

himyana, (Buddhistic), the 
inferior path. 

iccha, Desire, (same as emyu, 
kdma, vasana, samga). 
icchasvatamtrya, freedom of 
desire or will (same as 
atma-svatafntrya above). 
indriya, senses, or organs. 

ja(Ja, gross. 

jadadvaita, gross, or materiali¬ 
stic non-dualism (see 
p. 219). 

jiva, the Personal Self ; (same 
as the embodied Self, or 
the sarira-utmin), 
jivdtman, (same as, jiva). 
jivanmukta, Released-in-life; 
birth-released, 

jivamukldvastha, the state of 
being Released-in-life. 
jna, the Knewer. 
jfidna, Knowledge; wisdom ; 
Realisation. 


jnana-lmrujti treatises which 
maintain that the Know¬ 
ledge of the Brahman is 
superior to sacrificial 

ritual. 

jmma-mstha, the Path of 

Knowledge. 

jndna-mdrga, (same as, jTiana- 
nistha). 

jndnin. Knowledgeful; sago; 
wise. 

jndta, Knower. 
jmtya, the Knowable. 

kaivalya, Isolation. 
kala, Time; death. 
kuma, Desire (same as iccha, 
esavu, or vasana). 
kamya, Desire-prompted. 
karma, Action. 

tcariim-hhoga, the suffering for 
Action. 

karma-jijnasa, the desire to 
know Right Action. 
karma-kunda, ritualistic trea¬ 
tises. 

karmn-miikti. Release from the 
effects of Action. 
kanna-msthd, the Path of 
Knowledge. 

Icarma-phala, the Fruit of 
Action. 

kannaphala-tyaga, abandon¬ 
ment of the Fruit of 
Action. 

karma-pravuha, the course of 
Action. 

Icarma-sainnyasa, Abandonment 
of Action, 





GLOSSARY 


119 


kannu-tyatja, Abai-ionment of 
A.ction. 

kanna-vipWcd, Causality. 

Icarma-yogn, Union by Right 
Action. 

karma-yofiin, one who follows 
the Path of Karina-Yoga. 

karma-yo{y'/i-sfldtaprajna, tho 
Steady-in-Reason, follow¬ 
ing 1iie Path of Karma- 
Yoga. 

hlrya, duty; product; effect; 
doable. 

karyakUry'i, the doable and the 
not-doable. 

kosd, envelope. 

kanncMnukH, gradual releii.se. 

krlyaimnc., (Action) to-be-per- 
fortned. 

krsria, dark; .'sri Krsna. 


kmmd, forgiveness. 

Liuga, subUe. 

Linga sarira, subtle-fjody. 
loka, world, sphere. 
lukasu/'ngr.iha, cosmic, or uni¬ 
versal welfare. 

mihuydna. the superior path 
(Buddhistic), (the opp. of 
htnayhm). 
manan, thi! Mind. 
manahpTdo., mind-, or con- 
soienoesa nctionod, 
manavadharini'ii tho religion of 
humanity. 


iminudemtU, the mental deity, 
of Conscien(3e. 

mimomiya-kosa, the mental 
envelope. 

mUrd, the external world. 
malra-sparsa, contact with the 
external world. 
mdya, Illusion, 

mithyu, unreal (same as asat), 

niiilia, delusion ; confusion. 

mokm, Release. 

itiTlyu, death ; mortal sphere. 

mulct a. Released. 

mutdi, Release, (name as mok.sa). 

■wiimittika, occasional (Action). 
nuifjkannija, abstinence from 
Action ; desireless Action. 
■mislMrmya-siddfd, Release by 
abstinence from Action, or 
by Desireloss Action. 
ndma-rUpu, Name and Form. 
numaruputmaka, Name-d and 
Form-ed. 
mndlva, diversity; manifold- 
ness, 

niragru, one who does not 
maintain a sacrificial fire. 
lurdsa, freedom from hope; 
despair, 

■rurdsavadt. Pessimist, (opp. of 
dsuvadi). 

nirgwtia, quality] ess. 
uirgimt-bkakti, worship of the 
Qualityless. 
nirimru , non-i nimical. 
niruilrui, final emancipation; 
Release, 

niskdma, desireless. 
niatfa/hya, unattached 


IcTma-mUr ga, the dark patli 
(same as pilryuiid, and opp. 
of suida-vidrga). 
kTsydrpana, dedication to 
Krsna. 




120 


GITA-RAHASYA OR KARMA-YOGA 


nistha. the ultimate state. 
nifija, daily (Action or ritual). 
nitya-sa>'nnyasin, perpetual asce¬ 
tic, 

panca-niahribhuta, five Primor¬ 
dial Elements. 

pancikarapa. union of five 
primeval elements. 
paramunwmda, theory of atoms; 
atomic theory. 

mramarOiu, the highest in¬ 
terest, 

jxmimatmaii, the Highest Self 
(same as theadhy'dlnian). 
ixirnrflui, other’s-interest. 
pdtanjaLa-yo(ja, the system of 
Yoga enunciated by 
Patanjali. 
phda, Fruit. 

pkilusn, Hope for Fruit (of 
Action). 

phaldsa-tydya, abandonment of 
Hope for Fruit (of Action). 
pinda, the Body. 
pitrydna, the dark path, (see 
p. 408 etc.) 

pomia. Divine dispensation, or 
pleasure. 

prdlcTla, vernacular; with 
Prakrti. 

prakrti, Nature ; Matter; in¬ 
herent (juality or tempera¬ 
ment. 

pndaya. Cosmic destruction. 
pramdda, forgetfulness of duty, 
or heedlessness. 
praimya, measure. 
pmmeyti, measurable, 
prayu, life. 


f>rUramhlta, ommenoement. 
prdrabdha. Commenced (Ac¬ 
tion), 

jrrasthutia-frayl, the three funda¬ 
mental treatises of the 
Vedic religion, dealing 
with the paths of Action 
and of Inaction, namely 
the Upanisads, the 
Vedanta-Sutras, and the 
Bhagavadgita, 
pmtijnd, a vow. 

pratiJilU-pdlana, observance of 
a vow. 

pratika, a symbol. 
pravrili, Activity ; inclination. 
jmivrlli-milrga, Path of Action. 
pravTlIi-svUkiihtrya, freedom of 
activity (or Will), (same 
as, fdnui-svUtantlryaj, 
prlhaklrd, individuality; 
jmmya, Spirit. 

puruydriha, ideals of manhood. 
purumtfaina, the Highest 
Spirit. 

puptc. divine pleasure (same as 
puyanu). 

puyti-mdrya, the Path of Divine 
Pleasure. 

rdria, liking; love ; pleasure. 
rdja, king. 

rajas, the passionate or active 
constituent, out of the 
three constituents of 
Prakrti. 

rajasa, passionate; active; 
progressive. 

rdja-guhya, the King of Mysti¬ 
cisms. 




GI.OSSARY 


J21 


raja-'ddijn, the King of 
Sciences. 

mdsadviteka, discrimination 
l)etween right and wrong. 
sadamdvi ueka-buddhi, the Rea¬ 
son, which discriminates 
between the right and the 
wrong. 

sudamdmiieka-deiiatri, the deity 
which discriininate.s bet- 
weei. the right and the 
wroi g; Conscience. 
samatu, e juaiulity. 
aatnutva-buddhi, equai)le Reason. 
mmatva-buddhi-yo(/a, the Yoga 
of the equable Heason. 
m'lhbfmti., Knowledge, which is 
the fundamental cause of 
the world ( see p. 501 ): 
(opp. of (t-wnhlitdi, above). 
m/iicaya, accumulation. 
mvicita, Accumulated (Karma). 
sa'fiKja, Desire, (same as, icchd^ 
esand, oi vusand); Attach¬ 
ment 

mmgliata, collection; aggregate 
(saiiie a.s, sumuccuud 
belov/). 

mmyraha. collection; protec¬ 
tion ; maintenance ; regula 
tion; welfare, (see loka- 
samg-aha above). 
samlidra, de.struction. 
savtkaljxi, the mental decision 
that a particular thing is 
of a jiarticular kind. 
mdik/tya, i!Ouiiters ; the follow¬ 
ers ol the ^ramkhya philo¬ 
sophy . 


mi'nnyasa, Renunciation: asce¬ 
ticism ; the ‘nydsa, or giv¬ 
ing up of Desire-prompt¬ 
ed Action (cf. Gl. 18. 2). 
m/nnyddn, an ascetic; a re- 
nouncer ; one who follows 
the Path of Renunciation. 
mi'npaf, endowment (see daivi 
Sfifkjxit, and dsuri sampatj 
above). 

suihmra, worldly Iffe ; worldly 
activity. 

samuccaya, collection (same as 
mmghfita). 

sdimja, (same as, sarmtd 
equability. 
iunti, tranquility. 
kirira. the Body (same as 
pinda ). 

sariru-atmuji,, the embodied 
Self. 

mrvahludahitu. universal wel¬ 
fare ; (same as, loka- 

minyraha ). 
sdstra, .science. 

satkdryuvada, (see p. 210), the 
doctrine that something 
mu.st come out of some 
other thing, and that the 
fundamental cause of an 
evolute must possess the 
qualities of the evolute 
in some form or other. 
sattumrndnya, pervasiveness; 
existing in a constant 
form in every thing. 
sattUsurndnijatva, the theory of 
constant pervasiveness. 



122. 


GiTA-RAHASYA OR KARMA-YOGA 


mttva, the placid, equable, and 
pure, out of the three 
constituents of Prakrti. 
sulhjiku, possessing the mttm 
quality. 

satn'i, reality; real; existence. 
s'ltiianrta, Reality, and Un¬ 
reality. 

mti/anrtmriveka, the discrimina¬ 
tion between what is eter¬ 
nally existent, and what 
is not. 

•iiddha, perfect, released (same 
as, muktaj. 

mldhUoastha, the state of per¬ 
fection. 

'•■miria, following the path laid 
down by the Smrtis. 
iiinarta-kxirma, ritual ordained 
by the Smrtis. 

■■irnarta-yajna, sacrifice prescri¬ 
bed by the Smrtis. 
snehu. attachment (same as, 
samgu). 

sparsa, contact (see matrd-, 
isparsa). 

fifti, path, or goal (same as, 
gati). 

srfi, that which was heard. 
sthitapmjna, Steady-in-Reason. 
St hula, gross (opp. of sTiksma 
below). 
suddhu, pure. 

suddhadmifa, pure non-dimlism. 
sudd ha vasand, pure desire. 
siikha, happiness (opp. of 
duhkka). 

siikhavuda, Vae theory of happi¬ 
ness. 


sukla-margu^ the lighted path 
(opp. of krma-rndrga}. 
suksina, subtle (opp. of si hula, 
above). 

sdksrna sarlra, the subtle body. 
sixidharma, own-religion; own- 
^ duty. 

svddhi/uiia, following the reli¬ 
gion prescribed for one’s 
status in life (cf. Gl. 16.1). 
svarllui, own-interest (opp. 
■pardrtka). 

lamas, ignorance; darkness, 
the inert, out of the three 
constituents of Prakrti. 
tdrnasi, inert; ignorant; dark. 
tanmatra, fine element. 
lams, religious austerity. 
tat. THAT. 
tatm, element. 

tai-t va ni~asi, THOU ART 
THAT. 

trayi-dharma. the religious 
sacrificial paths prescrited 
by the three Vedas. 
trayi-vkiya, same as, truyi- 
dluirma, above. 

triguim, three constituents, or 
strands. 

tr igunat rn a k a, three-consti- 
tuented. 

trigunulita, beyond the three 
constituents. 

trivrtkararia, union of three 
elements. 

Irma, Desire (same as kamci, 
vasand j. 

tusti, contentedness. 
tydga, abandonment; abandon¬ 
ment of the Fruit of 
Action (see Gl. 18. 2). 



GLOSSARY 


123 


mnaiirama-ilhan^i, the Snirti j vinasa, ignorance (same as 
arrangement of four i unidija or aminbhuti, see 

■ classes, and four stages of ■ p. 501). 

life, \ msasa, the five primeval ele- 

msund, JOesire, (.same as icclid, | ments. 

Irma). i msistridvaita, Qualified Monism 

vrifi(iii.a-yvTitaMtr\ia, frectioni of | (see p. 21), 

desire, ( same as iltina- | vijakla, perceptible. 

^ralinitriia). | uyumsdija, discrimination. 

rfisdnatfiidka, based on desire; j Di/mniMmtmaka, discriminat- 

Pra( tical ( Reason). ing, and deciding; Pure 

mshitaivi, the Fundamental (Reason.). 

Element, the 'I'hing-in-it- i 

self (limi an sick. ' t/dfiu, sacrifice, minor than 

niileha-mukH, the Release, after i ynjna. 

death, by reaching the I i/njim, sacrifice, 
spheoi of till' Ih-ahman ;//o(/n, union ; merger ; assimila- 
(see p. 412). tion ; the device of skilful 

mli/d, scienci'. i performance of Action 

n'fi/hiH, food remaining over | (see Gl. 2 50). 

after every body has eaten | yoija-hhrasta, one fallen from 
(see ]). 403). Yoga. 

rikdljxi, the mental decision | yd</ti-Sdsfra, tlie science of 
that a particular thing is , Yoga, 
not of a particular kind. i yotja-nTdra.% the canons deal- 
evcliite,(same as riVfflm). I ing with Yoga. 

27651 







